OFFIC1AL         CREDIT NUMBER 1050 YDR
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project)
between
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       I                       , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1050 YDR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         &                   , 1980, between
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and:
(a) the term "PED" means the Petroleum Exploration Depart-
ment, an operational entity established within the Petroleum and
Minerals Board of the Borrower, under the Borrower's Law No. 25 of
1976;
(b) "Project area" means the area located in the northern
part of the Borrower's territory and which is divided, for the
purpose of petroleum exploration into various blocks, namely,
Hazar, Thamud, South Sanau, Habrout, and possibly Shabwa and
Howarin;
(c) "Project unit" means the Project unit to be established
pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement.
(d) "Project preparation advance" means the Project prepara-
tion advance provided by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated April 17, 1980 and April 29, 1980
between the Borrower and the Association, respectively.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine
million dollars ($9,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) As of the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project preparation advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid service charges thereon. The unwith-
drawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project preparation
advance shall be cancelled as of the same date and the balance of
the amount of the Credit allocated to Category (4) shall be
reallocted to Category (2) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for seismic survey and for the purchase of goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be gov-
erned by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1990, and ending
February 15, 2030, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. PED is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permit-
ted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through PED with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall employ: (a) a geophysical
management consulting firm for the purpose of assisting in the
implementation of a seismic survey under Part A of the Project;
such firm to provide the services of a Project manager, a quality
control supervisor and a seismic interpreter; (b) an accountant
for the purpose of assisting in the implementation of Part B.1 (a)
of the Project; and (c) an exploration consultant for the purpose
of assisting in the implementation of Part B.1 (b) of the Project,
all of whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower, acting through PED, shall:
(a) ensure full participation by a seismic crew from PED in the
seismic survey to be undertaken under Part A of the Project; (b)
establish and maintain until the completion of Part A of the
Project, a Project unit consisting of a project coordinator, a


﻿-4-
quality control supervisor, a seismic interpreter, a geologist, a
geophysicist and an accountant; and (c) adopt procedures enabling
said project coordinator to liaise, for the purpose of solving all
problems encountered in Project implementation, with the concerned
agencies and departments of the Borrower.
Section 3.04. For the implementation of Part B (2) of the
Project, the Borrower, acting through PED, shall: (a) adopt
procedures satisfactory to the Association for utilizing the
services of consultants employed under the Project for the carry-
ing out of on-the-job training of PED's staff; and (b) prepare and
furnish to the Association for its comments and review, not later
than January 31, 1982, an overseas training program for PED's
staff in quality control procedures and in seismic data gathering,
processing and interpretation and after having reviewed the
Association's comments thereon, carry out such program in accord-
ance with a time-schedule satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) make any block in the
Project area covered by the seismic survey under Part A of the
Project available for further commercial exploration of petroleum
only after seismic survey in such block is completed; and (b)
provide the Association, within three months after completion of
seismic survey under Part A of the Project, with a report sum-
marizing the results of such survey together with the Borrower's
plans for promoting further petroleum exploration.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
(c) Until the completion of Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall ensure that no other seismic surveys requiring
human or material allocations from PED, which may adversely affect
the implementation of said part of the Project, shall be under-
taken without prior consultation with the Association.


﻿-5-
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, including the
seismic survey plans, specifications, reports, contract documents
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association quarterly reports on the progress in project implemen-
tation and containing all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expend-
iture of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under this Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause PED to maintain
separate Project accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall cause PED to: (i) have its Project
accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning said accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower undertakes to use the funds
which may be acquired by the Borrower from the sale to commercial
petroleum companies of the data obtained from seismic survey under
Part A of the Project for financing (a) petroleum exploration
activities which are feasible in the circumstances, or (b) other
energy related activities.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions: (a) the Borrower has established the Project unit
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
and (b) the Borrower has employed the geophysical management
consulting firm referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date                   ois hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-7-
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
P.O. Box 1193
Aden, People's Democratic
Republic of Yemen
Cable address:                       Telex:
TAKHTEET                            289 TAKHTEET
Aden
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By         A         A
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /A5/
1   Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Seismic survey                5,750,000         100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures and 90%
of local expen-
ditures for
imported items
procured
locally
(2) Technical assistance           1,250,000         100% of for-
and training                                    eign expendi-
tures
(3)  Seismic and related           1,000,000         100% of for-
equipment                                       eign expendi-
tures
(4) Project preparation              100,000         100%
advance
(5) Unallocated                      900,000
TOTAL              9,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower, and (b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency


﻿-9-
of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Disbursement under Category (3) of the table shown in para-
graph 1 of this schedule shall be made only after the Association
has approved the manner of procuring the equipment to be financed
under said category as stated in paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds
of the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such item as required to be
consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way


﻿- 10 -
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Seismic Survey
Seismic survey consisting of about 2,400 km of seismic survey
lines in the Project area to identify geologic structures with
attractive petroleum resource potentials.
Part B:   Technical Assistance and Training
1.   Technical assistance for:
(a) the maintenance and auditing of Project accounts;
and
(b) coordinating the geological data obtained under the
Project and all other geological data available for PED for its
unrestricted use, devising a strategy for future exploration
activities and assisting, if required, in negotiations of explora-
tion contracts.
2.   (a) On-the-job training for PED's staff; and
(b) overseas training for PED's staff in quality control
procedures and in seismic data gathering, processing and inter-
pretation.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1982.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   (a) Seismic survey under Part A of the Project shall be
undertaken under a single contract to be awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
(b) The tender documents for such seismic survey shall
include, inter alia, provisions specifying the type and operating
conditions of equipment to be used by the contractors bidding for
such survey, and requiring such contractors to accept in their
bids: (i) to maintain such equipment during the contract period;
and (ii) to provide the Borrower with the option to purchase such
equipment at the end of the contract period.
2.   The Borrower shall prepare and forward to the Association as
soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to
the date of availability to the public of the first tender docu-
ments for such seismic survey, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the
Association shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the works in question.
3.   (a) The Borrower shall, for the purpose of exercising the
option to purchase the equipment referred to in paragraph 1 (b)
above, ensure the preparation by PED with the assistance of the
consulting firm referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement
of a report stating the operating condition of such equipment and
an estimate of the price to be paid by the Borrower for it,
together with the recommendations as to whether the Borrower
should exercise such option or proceed with the purchase of new
equipment.
(b) The Borrower shall provide the Association, for its
review and comments, with the report referred to in sub-paragraph
(a) above. Upon the approval of the Association, the Borrower


﻿- 13 -
shall: (i) exercise such option to purchase the equipment provided
by the contractor or (ii) proceed with the purchase of new equip-
ment; such purchase shall be made on the basis of quotations
obtained from suppliers from not less than three member countries
of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and
Switzerland.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, to-
gether with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of the seismic survey contract, or


﻿- 14 -
granting an extension of the stipulated time for performance of
such contract, or issuing any change order under such contract
(except in cases of extreme urgency) which would increase the cost
of the contract by more than 10% of the original price, the
Borrower shall inform the Association of the proposed modifica-
tion, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons therefor.
The Association, if it determines that the proposal would be
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198 0t.
FOR SECRETARY


