Report No. 15849
India
Impact Evaluation Report
Water Supply and Wastewater Services in Bombay
Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 390-IN)
Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 842-IN)
Third Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2769-IN/Credit 1 750-IN)
June 28, 1996
Operations Evaluation Department
Document of the World Bank



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Rupee
US$1.00 = Rs 35 (June 1996)
Rs 1.00 = 0.028 (June 1996)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BMRDA                Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority
BSDP                 Bombay Sewerage Disposal Project
BUDP                 Bombay Urban Development Project
BWSSP I              Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project
BWSSP 11             Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project
BWSSP III            Third Bombav Water Supply and Sewerage Project
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
IER                  Impact Evaluation Report
GOI                  Government of India
km                   kilometer
lcd                  Liters per capita per day
M                    Million
MCGB                 Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay
MIDC                 Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation
mid                  Million liters per day (0.220 million imperial gallons per day)
MWSSP                Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project
OED                  Operations Evaluation Department
PAR                  Performance Audit Report
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
WSSD                 Water Supply and Sewerage Department
Fiscal Year (MCGB) April I - March,3



The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 28, 1996
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Impact Evaluation Report on India
Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 390-IN)
Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 842-IN)
Third Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2769/Credit 1750)
Attached is the Impact Evaluation Report (IER) on the subject projects prepared by the
Operations Evaluation Department (OED). The purpose of the impact evaluation was to determine the
effectiveness of the Bank's interventions in the provision of urban water supply and wastewater services
in Bombay. These interventions took place during more than 20 years and involved nearly US$440
million of Bank lending. In the preparation of the report, OED has focused on six areas: (i) technical
results; (ii) economic impacts; (iii) social impacts; (iv) institutional impacts; (v) health impacts; and (vi)
environmental impacts. Factors which affect these impacts were also assessed.
The impact evaluation has drawn several key conclusions. Significant increases in gross water
availability have allowed strong economic growth to continue in Bombay. They did not translate into
improved service levels because of rapid population growth and lack of system rehabilitation. Water
service continues to be intermittent. Service interruptions affect the low income population the most and
increase health risks through water recontamination.
Sanitation objectives are largely unmet. New sewage collection systems have reduced street
level and shore line pollution in some areas, mostly the downtown and harbor areas on the eastern shore.
But, non-completion of wastewater treatment plants and outfalls result in a continued health threat from
sewage discharges on the westem shore. Also, almost one third of public latrines are out of commission
at any given time resulting in strong consumer dissatisfaction.
Institutional development was positive in that the Water and Sewage Department is by now a
moderately well run organization and its finances are sound. However, construction is often beset with
lengthy delays and maintenance and rehabilitation are clearly not priorities. Further, economic
efficiency has been compromised by cost overruns, a deficient tariff structure, and an inadequate billing
and collection system.



2
The report presents recommendations for future operations in the areas of institutional
improvements and quality of water and sanitation services as key to sustaining the benefit of the
investments. A two-day workshop was held with consumer groups and officials of Bombay and the
Government of Maharasthra State in May 1996. A consensus was reached on the report's findings and
main recommendations which focus on the need for rehabilitation, steps to restore a 24-hour service,
extension of sanitation facilities with the close participation of users, and economic pricing of water and
sewerage services.
Attachment



Contents
Preface ............................                                                            3
Evaluation Summary ............................                                                 5
1. Projects' Framework .............................11
The Setting .......................... 11
About Bombay ...........................11
Water Supply  .......1................... .                                               1
Sewerage and Sanitation ..........................                                        12
Water and Wastewater Institutions .......................... 12
The Projects ..........................                                                     13
Objectives of the Program ..........................                                      13
Implementation ..........................                                                 15
Evaluation Methodology ..........................                                           16
2. Economic and Social Impacts .............................                                   19
Technical Results and Service Levels ..........................                             19
Economic Impacts .......................... 20
Social Impacts ..........................                                                   24
3. Institutional and Financial Impacts ............................. 27
Institutional Overview  .......................... 27
Operational Performance .......................... 27
Financial Performance .......................... 29
4. Health and Environmental Impacts ............................. 33
Health Impacts .......................... 33
Environmental Impacts .......................... 34
5. Factors and Recommendations for Sustainability ..............          .......................... 37
Factors which Affect Impacts ..................................... 37
Recommendations ..................................... 38
Improve the Institution  ..................................... 38
Improve the Quality of Water Service ..................................... 39
Improve the Quality of Sanitation Services ..................................... 40
This report is based upon the work of a team consisting of Mr. Tauno Skytta (Task Manager) and
Mr. Arthur Bruestle, Mr. Tejbir S. Phool, Mrs. Claudine Voyadzis, Mr. Charles Chandler and
Mr. Gary Wu (HQ consultants) and Mrs. Pratima Panwalkar, Dr. V. G. Panwalkar, and Dr. V.
Desai (local consultants). Mrs. Helen Watkins provided administrative assistance. The report
was issued by the Energy and Infrastructure Division (Mr. Yves Albouy, Chief) of the
Operations Evaluation Department (Mr. Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa, Director).



2
6. Conclusions ................................................. 41
Annexes
A. Project Details  ................................................. 43
B. Selected Operational Indicators: Bombay and Other Urban Areas  ...................................... 59
C. Socio-Economic Survey: Statistical Tables  ................................................. 63
Attachment
Comments from the Borrower ................................................. 67
Maps



3
Preface
The purpose of this evaluation is to determine the impact of the Bank's assistance to
Bombay to develop the water supply, sewerage and sanitation sector there. The evaluation
covers the First, Second and Third Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Projects (Credits 390,
842 and Loan2769/Credit 1750). These projects supported the sector development program of
the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (MCGB) which began in 1972. Elements of other
Bank-financed infrastructure projects in the Bombay area are considered in this evaluation to the
extent that they affected the program.
This Impact Evaluation Report (IER) was prepared by the Operations Evaluation
Department (OED) of the World Bank. The study was launched by the study team's first visit to
Bombay in October 1994. A second visit occurred in January 1995. During the same period, a
team of local consultants conducted a socio-economic survey of 1600 households in four typical
wards (of 23 total wards), the results of which are reported herein.
As part of the impact evaluation a two-day workshop was held in Bombay on May 14 -
15, 1996, to review the findings and conclusions of the study with officials of the city of
Bombay, the Government of Maharashtra State and representatives of consumer groups. Many
useful insights were shared at the workshop with Bank staff, and a near-term plan of action
emerged. OED expresses its appreciation to Indian officials for their participation, support and
contribution to this endeavor.
Water Supply and Sewerage and Related Projects
Project                     Approval  Loan/  Project   Loan/
Year      Credit  Cost     Credit
No.   (USS M)  Amount
(FY)                       (USS M)
Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (BWSSP-I)  1973    C390   158       55
Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project   1979      C842  412        196
(BWSSP-11)
Third Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project    1987      L2769/ 304       40/145
(BWSSP-III)                                                 C1 750
Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project (MWSSP)   1979  C899   100     48
Bombay Urban Development Project (BUDP)           1985      C1544  257       138
Bombay Sewage Disposal Project (BSDP)             1996      L3923/ 296       167/25
C2763
Amounts are as appraised.



a



5
Evaluation Summary
Water Supply and Wastewater Services in Bombay
Projects' Framework
1.    The purpose of this study is to determine the impact of the Bank's interventions in the
provision of urban water supply and wastewater services in Bombay. The study covers the First,
Second, and Third Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Projects (BWSSP-I, Cr. 390; BWSSP-
II, Cr. 842; and BWSSP-III, Ln. 2769/Cr. 1750). These projects supported the sector
development program of the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (MCGB) which began
in 1973. Elements of other Bank-financed infrastructure projects in the Bombay area are
considered in this evaluation to the extent that they had an impact on the program.
The Setting
2.     Water Supply. At the onset of the MCGB program, about 80 percent of Bombay's 6.5
million people received public water service, but many relied upon unsatisfactory public
standpipes. Water was chlorinated but only six percent was fully treated. Because of excessive
leakage and wasteful practices the gross supply of more than 200 liters per person was only
adequate to provide the average resident less than six hours of service a day.
3.    Sewerage and Sanitation. In 1972, sewer service was limited to central Bombay and a
small portion of the suburbs, with septic tanks and privies used elsewhere. Sewer systems were
overloaded and during heavy rains sewage and stormwater flooded streets. Septic tanks overflowed
and nightsoil was tipped into local watercourses. Industrial wastes were discharged directly into
drains and creeks.
4.    Institutions. A Water Supply and Sewerage Department (WSSD) was created in 1971,
prior to which responsibilities for Bombay's water and sewerage planning, development and
operations were divided among several government entities. Responsibilities for other sanitation
services such as garbage collection and storm drainage fell to other governmental units. Water
resources management and development in Maharashtra was shared by several government
agencies and poorly coordinated.
The Projects
5.     Objectives. The objectives of MCGB's program were to improve living conditions of
Bombay's population by alleviating water shortages, doubling the hours of supply and
mitigating dangerous and offensive sanitary conditions. The program was divided into phases,
with BWSSP-I (1973) financing the first phase which was primarily for water supply system
improvements. Subsequent phases covered sewerage as well as water supply.
6.    The physical objectives of BWSSP-I were to fully utilize available water sources,
improve the quality of supply and the efficiency of the distribution system and, to a lesser
degree, rehabilitate and expand the sewerage system. The institutional objectives were to
develop WSSD's capacity to carry out the development program and operate its systems; to



6
ensure WSSD's financial viability; and to consolidate the management of State-wide water
resources.
7.     BWSSP-II (1978) continued WSSD's institutional development and assumed the same
physical objectives because BWSSP-I, due to cost overruns, did not achieve them. BWSSP-III
(1986, now nearing completion) provided institutional support for WSSD and sought to expand
water supply and wastewater facilities to keep pace with the increasing demands. BWSSP-III
also planned to expand earlier efforts to provide sanitation and water services to the poor.
8.     The Bank's Performance Audit Reports (PAR) for BWSSP-I (1985) and BWSSP-II
(1990)1 credited WSSD with a sound financial position but cited areas for improvement,
including reducing reliance on the water/sewer benefit tax, reducing accounts receivable, and
giving meaningful attention to revenue losses through unaccounted-for water. The outcome of
BWSSP-I was rated as satisfactory, and that of BWSSP-II as unsatisfactory.
Economic and Social Impacts
9.     This study reviews the technical results of the MCGB program and their impacts on
economic, social, institutional, health, and environmental conditions. The evaluation covers the
22-year period, 1972 to 1994, when a social survey was carried out as part of the study.
10.    Technical Results. MCGB's original water supply objectives have not been fully
achieved. While there has been a 65 percent increase in the gross supply of water, the population
increased by about the same level, leaving the per capita availability unchanged. Connections
increased by 84 percent, standpipes by 800 percent, and 75 percent of the connections are metered
but many meters do not work. Water service is still discontinuous at two to eight hours a day in
most areas. The quality of water meets international standards when it enters the distribution
system but is subjected to recontam ination at the consumer level because of low and negative
pressures.
11.    Wastewater objectives have not been met primarily because of implementation delays,
population growth and sewage quantity increases. Achievements include a 20 percent increase in
the number of dwellings connected to the sewerage system, a 20 percent expansion of the area
served by the sewer system, and the completion of collection, treatment and disposal works for the
harbor area. Important shortfalls include the failure to complete the two wastewater treatment
plants and the two marine outfalls partially constructed under BWSSP II. At 170 persons per
latrine, the slum population is grossly underserved with sanitation. One third of the 35,000 latrines
are out of service and consumers complain of poor designs and maintenance.
12.    Economic Impacts. The benefits of the program clearly exceeded the costs. Seasonal
water shortages, interrupted service and a polluted urban environment, which cause serious
economic disruption and personal hardship, would be far worse in the absence of the program.
Gross water supply per person would be 60 percent of the present level and uncollected sewage
would flow in the streets.
1. Performance Audit Reports on Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project 1, Report No. 5875, dated October 1, 1985 and
Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project 11, Repor No. 9265, dated December 31, 1990.



7
13.    But was this indispensable program the least cost solution? The answer is a qualified
yes. The technical solutions and their sequencing generally appear to be least cost. However,
true costs were higher than anticipated and benefits were postponed, in part because of severe
delays in procurement and construction. Unsatisfactorily designed facilities, such as the
underutilized public latrines and the partially completed submarine outfalls, posed substantial
and unexpected costs without commensurate benefits.
14.    Although the projects included components for system rehabilitation there was a clear
bias for major construction and, as a consequence, important benefits which could have accrued
from relatively low cost rehabilitation were not achieved. Possibly the least cost initial
intervention would better have been a system rehabilitation effort of modest cost.
15.    The level and structure of water supply and sewerage tariffs are matters of economic and
social importance, for they impact upon economic viability, equity among consumer groups, and
the ability to manage demand. For most consumers water and sewerage prices, however, fall far
short of meeting either the full financial cost of water or the incremental economic costs.
Consequently, consumers are not signaled true costs, waste is encouraged and a false message is
given that large capacity expansions are required.
16.    The tariff structure favors domestic over commercial and industrial consumers. This
policy of subsidizing domestic consumptionl encourages waste of water which could be put to
economic use by others. It also prompts industrial consumers to resort to costly recycling and
other measures to avoid the high tariff of WSSD water.
17.    Social Impacts. A survey carried out as part of this study compared conditions at the
time of the survey with those of 10 years earlier. The results indicate that for water supply,
coverage with house connections increased significantly; standpipe use iemained constant;
access to 24-hour supply decreased; and more households now rely on partial-day service than in
1984. Respondents complained that water often reaches them in the early morning hours causing
familial hardships, arid some 8O percent do not trust the safety of the supply. It is the poor, who
cannot afford booster pumps and costly water storage facilities, and women, the principal water
haulers, who bear the greater burdens in terms of access and convenience. The survey data
indicates that other than an increase in house connections, little progress has been made in key
indicators for consumer satisfaction.
18.   In non-slum areas almost all the households are served by toilet facilities, in large part
because of the program. But many slum dwellers complain of inappropriate designs, numerical
inadequacy and poor maintenance of latrines. In the poorer wards, more than half of the children
use open field defecation.
Institutional and Financial Impacts
19.    The audits' views on institutional performance are consistent with the findings of the
PARs. Staffing for the water supply function at 96 per thousand connections is grossly
excessive. Unaccounted-for water is 40 percent to 60 percent on a 24-hour supply basis against
the BWSSP-I target of 25 percent. Metering is only 15 percent effective. Accounts receivable
are excessive and more than 30 percent of the customers claim to pay nothing for water.
Improvements in these areas are essential if sound economic and financial policies are to be
pursued. Contracting is often beset by delays and monitoring indicators called for under



8
BWSSP-III were not prepared. Monitoring indicators are now being prepared for BSDP,
however, there is a need to reexamine them as they do not provide a full spectrum of
management data. .
20.    Daily service interruptions are a key impediment to a rational use of water in several
ways. First, much water is wasted through pipe flushing and households discarding "old" stored
water when "fresh" water is supplied; second, pressure interruptions make metering unreliable;
and third, poor service quality makes tariff adjustments less acceptable to the public. Finally,
long interruptions make it indispensable for customers to invest in individual storage tanks; a
solution which cost millions of dollars more than the recourse to large scale storage by the
MCGB.
21.    Since the start of the program the Bank has urged officials of Maharashtra State to
develop and manage water resources in a comprehensive, multisectoral way. As an important
step in this direction, a State-level water resources authority with membership from water-using
sectors was created in 1995.
22.    Water and sewerage taxes and tariffs at the onset of the program were inadequate in level
and structure. As the program progressed, the revenue targets were generally met. WSSD's
contribution to capital expenditures, in part due to rate hikes and in part due to postponed works,
exceeded 40 percent.
23.    The financial strength of the WSSD is one of the brightest results of the program.
However, WSSD's finances are heavily reliant on a narrow and shrinking revenue base provided
by industrial and commercial consumers, on taxes and on the fact that the growing foreign
exchange losses associated with its borrowing are borne by the Government of India. It appears
that the level of the subsidy is not essential to ensure that domestic consumers can afford water.
The poorest nine percent of households earning less than Rs 900 a month in 1995 are estimated
to spend less than one percent of income on their water and sewerage bill and water which is
purchased privately from tanker trucks costs up to 50 times the price charged to them by WSSD.
Health and Environmental Impacts
24.    The intervention model held that the incidence of water-related diseases would decline if
supply hours and standpipes were increased in the slums through distribution of fully treated
water. Although full treatment was implemented and the number of standpipes expanded by 800
percent, a health survey in 1992 failed to detect significant reductions in water-related diseases.
This may be due in part to the intermittent water service and the poor quality of sanitation
services. Changes in health status are also affected by interventions in health care and education,
and are often linked to incomes-factors external to the program and beyond the scope of this
impact evaluation.
25.    The sewerage components were to provide the primary environmental benefits of the
program. Some sewerage systems have been expanded and two marine outfalls are in use,
thereby relieving street-level and near shore pollution in the areas served. However, about 75
percent of all sewage is untreated and discharged to local waterways and coastal waters, causing
extensive environmental hazards.



9
Recommendations for Sustainability
26.    The present institution and cost recovery policies are not sufficiently strong to ensure
that the present level of service can be sustained, let alone improve in the future. Costs are
unnecessarily high, procurement procedures are cumbersome, construction lead-times are long
and unaccounted-for water is high. Metering, billing, and collection performance is poor. In the
past, capacity expansions and tariff increases were used to cover operating shortcomings but
fresh approaches are now required to expand the revenue base, rationalize the use of services and
improve service levels.
27.    WSSD should next undertake a major rehabilitation effort with the objective of
providing consumers with 24-hour, uninterrupted water service. With distribution system
improvements, the present gross supply of 240 liters per capita per day (lcd) is adequate to
provide an average of 135 lcd over 24 hours, equivalent to WSSD's estimate of consumption by
apartment dwellers. This effort would help to (i) ensure that the water remains potable; (ii)
improve consumer convenience; (iii) eliminate expenditures for private water storage; and (iv)
lower WSSD's management and labor costs. Issues remain on how to go about this (because, for
example, there is insufficient storage capacity), therefore a pilot project would be appropriate to
uncover the constraints and work out the details. The effort should be holistic, and include
reducing leakage, improving metering, billing, and collection, and raising domestic tariffs while
providing a life-line tariff block for the poor.
28.    There is a parallel need to provide improved sanitation services for the disadvantaged,
both in terms of quality and number of facilities. The BSDP contains a slum sanitation
component. It has a better chance of success because it actively involves the community in
design and maintenance of new facilities.
Conclusions
29.    Water supply and sewerage planning, construction and operations in Bombay posed
daunting challenges to those who planned and implemented the investment program. At the
outset, there was a huge backlog of unmet demand because of underinvestment. Population and
economic growth accelerated in the following decades and the proportion of the poor increased
as did the slums which they occupied.
30.    The intended impacts of the program have not been realized. Shortcomings include that
water is not safe to drink; water service, especially to the poor, is difficult to access and is
provided at inconvenient hours of the day; industrial water needs are not fully met; sanitary
facilities are too few in number and often unusable; and urban drains, creeks and coastal waters
are polluted with sanitary and industrial wastes.
31.    This study confirms the PAR ratings for BWSSP - I and II (para. 8). For BWSSP - III,
current findings support assessments shown in the latest supervision reports. In particular, the
sustainability of program benefits is rated as uncertain due to weaknesses in WSSD's cost
recovery policies and its performance in the operation and rehabilitation of the water system.



10
32.    The findings were discussed at the workshop and a near-term action plan was developed.
These actions, endorsed by MCGB in a letter to OED, dated May 17, 1996 (See Attachment),
are:
*  water supply activities would be focused on rehabilitation, with emphasis on leak reduction
and effective metering;
*  a pilot program would be undertaken to test the issues which confront the provision of 24-
hour supply;
*  latrines would be built and restored to provide better sanitary service to the poor; and
*  water and sewerage tariffs would be restructured to reflect the full cost of service, while
providing a life-line block for the poor.



11
1.  Projects' Framework
The Setting
The water and sewerage program started with a large backlog of unmet demand, and during its
implementation Bombay's population grew by 80 percent. Water supply was intermittent, and
sewerage systems were overloaded causing sewage to overflow into the streets. The fledging
Water Supply and Sewerage Department was not operating with the autonomy envisaged at the
inception.
About Bombay
1.1   The Bombay urban region is India's largest with a population of 12.6 million (1991), or
nearly six percent of India's urban population. It is the capital of Maharashtra State, contairs
India's largest seaport, and is the country's pre-eminent center of trade, commerce, and finance. It
is also a major manufacturing center and accounts for 30 percent of the value of India's industrial
production and 10 percent of India's industrial employment. It has maintained this prominent
position in manufacturing despite the out-migrations of water-intensive industries such as textile
and chemical industries
1.2   The boundaries of Municipal (or Greater) Bombay contain a 440-square kilometer urban
region and a population of 10 million people-about three million on Bombay Island and seven
million in the suburbs. The municipality is administered by the Municipal Corporation of Greater
Bombay (MCGB).
1.3    Because of relatively good employment opportunities and access to services, the average
population growth rate in Bombay's urban region from 1981 to 1991 was 4.3 percent per annum,
compared to 3.1 percent for India's urban areas as a whole. The provision of infrastructure and
housing has not kept pace with this growth rate. While Bombay's economic strength and its role in
India's economy has created abundant employment opportunities and attracted rural migrants, an
estimated five million people live in slums.
Water Supply
1.4    Bombay's water supply system was initially constructed in the mid-19th century to serve
commercial and residential areas in the southern portion of Bombay Island near the harbor and the
Fort. Subsequent rapid expansion of commerce and development of industry required the periodic
addition of new sources of supplies which, largely from surface sources, were ever more distant
from the city. Figure 1.1 shows the progress in the water supply situation prior to Bank
involvement in the sector. From 1985 to 1995, the share of commercial and industrial uses in the
demand decreased from 14 percent to 8 percent and from 21 percent to 11 percent, respectively.
The share of residential uses increased from 65 percent to 81 percent.



12
Figure 1.1: Pr&gress in Water Supply, 1941 - 1971
2e270 Ilcd        - 0
20               -     - - -    
1.5  At the~1 onset-of the-CGB-program i 192,soe,50      -ilio  lier pe da-(id-o
984 mil
494 mid    _~-Vait-arnaX
water from distan surfacesourceswereconveyedtoGreate omb 6 million  p
1941     1946     1951     1956     1961     1966     1971
AMCGB Service Area Population, millons     a
s p w 7 e   Agg regate water supply capacity,    c itd x  b00
-Vater per capita, lcd x 1.0--
1.5    At the onset of the MCGB program in 1972, some 1,500 million liters per day (mid) of
wtater from distant surface sources were conveyed to Greater Bombay's 6.5 million people.
About 80 percent of the population was served through 144,000 connections and 3,000
standpipes, with 57 percent of the connections metered. Water was chlorinated but only six
percent was fully treated. The gross supply of more than 200 liters per person per day was
deemed to be inadequate to meet the high level of leakage and growing domestic, industrial and
commercial demand This resulted in less than six hours of service a day. Physical losses in the
distribution system were estimated at 16 percent of the net supply under the partial-day service
regimen, but with full day service would have been well over 50 percent, a value which exceeds
normally acceptable water utility standards.
Sewerage and Sanitation
1.6    Prior to the 1970s, the efforts to develop urban infrastructure and keep pace with rapid
urban growth gave higher priority to water supply than to sanitary sewerage. In 1972, sewerage
was limited to central Bombay and a small portion of the suburbs, with septic tanks and privies
used elsewhere. Some 50 percent of the population were served by sewers, 20 percent were
partially served, and the balance had no service. More than 50 percent of the population, even
those that lived in sewered areas, relied upon communal facilities. Sewer systems were
overloaded and during heavy rains mixed sewage and stormwater flooded streets. Septic tanks
overflowed and tank pumpage and nightsoil was tipped into local watercourses. Industrial
wastes were discharged directly into drains and creeks.
Water and Wastewater Institutions
1.7    A Water Supply and Sewerage Department (WSSD) was formed in 1971, prior to which
responsibilities for Bombay's water and sewerage planning, development and operations were
divided among several government entities.- Responsibilities for other sanitation services such as
garbage collection and storm drainage fell to other Bombay governmental units. Responsibilities



13
for water resources development in Maharashtra were fragmented among government agencies
and a state-wide consolidation was deemed necessary. In 1973, this fledgling Department was
not operating with the autonomy which was envisaged at its inception, and was in need of
development assistance.
The Projects
The goal of the WSSD's expansion program was to improve living conditions and health.
The project objectives were to improve the delivery of water supply and sewerage and sanitation
services, build a sound institution and ensure its financial viability.
Objectives of the Program
1.8    World Bank assistance to the water supply and sewerage sector was initiated in 1973
with the First Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (BWSSP-I). This was subsequently
followed by two additional water and sewerage projects. These three projects are the principal
subject of this impact evaluation. Data on these projects are shown in Table 1. 1; details are in
Annex A.2 Bank contributed about 40 percent of the total investment. No major investment
outside the Bank supported projects took place in the water supply and sanitation sector in
Bombay.
1.9   In 1971, MCGB's international consultants submitted a feasibility report for a 1972-
1981 development program for water supply, sewerage, sewage treatment and disposal in
Bombay estimated to cost US$547 million. This formed the basis for the Bank's project
preparation activities, and, eventually, the long-term MCGB-Bank program for the sector in
Bombay. The goal of the program was to improve the health and living conditions of Bombay's
population by alleviating water shortages and mitigating dangerous and offensive sanitary
conditions. Recognizing the magnitude of the effort required, the program was divided into two
phases, with BWSSP-1 financing the first phase followed by one or more additional projects for
the second phase. The first phase was to be primarily for water supply system improvements,
and the second phase for wastewater.
1.10   While implementing the Bombay water and sewerage projects the Bank also assisted
three other projects which contributed to achieving the program's goal. Elements of these
projects have been considered in this evaluation to the extent that they had an impact on the
program. These three projects are also discussed below. The Maharashtra Water Supply and
Sewerage Project (1979-85) provided water supply and sewerage to towns and villages in
Bombay's hinterland and helped to build the capacity of the Maharashtra Water Supply and
Sewerage Board. Some of the towns formerly serviced by MCGB were transferred to the Board,
and some of the facilities built under the project use tht. same water sources as WSSD facilities.
2. The facilities included in the BWSSP - 1, 11, and III are shown on maps IBRD 28089, IBRD 28090, IBRD 28088, and IBRD
18974, respectively.



14
Table 1.1: World Bank-Funded Water Supply and Sewerage Projects in Bombay
Project Name,       Objectives            Components
FY, L/C No.,
Cost, LUC Amount
First Bombay Water  To improve the quality   Water Supply:
Supply and          of supply and the     .   Pise weir and headworks on the Bhatsai River;
Sewerage; FY73,     efficiency of the     .   pumping scheme from the Bhatsai River to Bombay;
C0390,              distribution system by   .   22 cu.m./sec. Treatment plant at Bhandup for all water entering MCGB's
US$ 158.2 million,   fully utilizing the       distribution system;
US$ 55.0 million    available sources of  .   storage reservoirs;
supply and            *   primary distribution system improvements;
maximizing the hours   .   minor works and equipment.
of supply to the      Sewerage:
consumers; to         .   urgent works for upgrading and improving 9 existing pumping stations, and
rehabilitate and           construction of 7 new sewage pumping stations;
expand the sewerage    *   upgrading of Ghatkopar and Dadar treatment plants;
system to handle the    .   10 km pumping mains, 107 km trunk sewers, 12 sm branch sewers;
growing effluent flows  *   feasibility studies and preliminary designs for further treatment and outfalls;
(SAR, BWSSP-1,        .   maintenance equipment.
paras. 5.03, 5.05)    Institutional Development:
Strengthening of BMC's water supply and sewerage organization and
improvement of related technical and financial operations through technical
assistance and training.
Second Bombay       To complete MCGB's   Water Supply:
Water Supply and    works program         *   Supplementary (455 mid) river water pumping capacity at Pise Weir
Sewerage: FY79,     scheduled for         .   A 455 mid water filtration plant at Panjrapur, adjacent to existing pre
C0842,              implementation during      treatment facilities;
US$ 411.6 million,   the period 1977-1981,   *   Construction of a 120 million liter balancing reservoir and some 35 km of
US$ 196.0 million    and to complete works     2.2 meter diameter transmission mains, including a 3 meter diameter tunnel
originally scheduled       12.75 km long;
under BWSSP-l (SAR,  *   Additional pumps and associated mains at Bhandup to supply the Malad and
BWSSP-ll, para.            Borivli areas;
4.02)                 .   Distribution of existing transmission mains to restore capacity of the
existing system;
*   10,000 public taps and 15,000 new latrines in slum areas;
.   Leakage detection equipment, meters, vehicles, workshops, storage, misc.
equipment, operator's quarters and access roads to facilities.
Sewverage:
*   Sewage collection and conveyance works in 5 zones including new pumping
stations, renovation of existing pumping stations, construction of force
mains, trunk and branch sewers, as well as 7 km of large dia. sewers in the
Maharashtraim zone to convey sewage to Bandra;
*   Public latrine blocks in slum areas;
w   Renovation of an existing 42 mid sewage treatment plant at Colaba;
*   Pre!iminary sewage treatment and disposal via two 800 mid submarine
outfalls. One at Worli and one at Bandra;
Sewage treatment in aerated effluent at Versova, Malad, Chembur and
Bhandup, with capacities 131, 280, 386 and 196 mid, respectively.
Third Bombay        To improve further    Water Supply:
Water Supply and    BMC's                 *   Addition of trunk mains, distribution mains and transmission tunnels to the
Sewerage; FY87,    implementation and         distribution system;
C 1750 and L2769,    operational          *   Construction of a 455 mid water treatment plant, 2,233 mid pumping
US$ 304.3 million,   performance, to          capacity in 17 units, and 144 million liters clear water storage in four service
US$ 185.0 million    expand the water and     reservoirs.
sewerage facilities for   Sewerage and Sanitation:
the city of Bombay,   .   Construction of 54 km sewers and 150 mid pumping capacity;
and to keep pace with    *   Provision of low-cost on-site waste disposal facilities in areas not covered by
increasing demand         water-bome sewerage;
from population       *   Provision of suction tanks, local pumping arrangements, tubewells and
growth and expansion       minor mains to serve the urban poor in slums; and
of industrial and     .   Provision of technical assistance and vehicles for operations.
commercial activities
(SAR, BWSSP-Ill,
I para. 3.01)         1



15
1.11   The Bormtbay Urban Deve!opment Project (BUDP, 1985-94), targeted at the poor, sought
to increase the supply of affordable land, infrastructure and shelter. The infrastructure
component included water supply and sanitation at the local level in the same areas as the three
water supply and sewerage projects The Bombay Sewerage Disposal Project (BSDP) was
approved in i995 to undertake the incomplete wastewater collection, treatment, and disposal
components of BWSSP-I through III. The timing of the projects is shown in Figure 1.2.
Figure 1.2: Timing of Water Supply, Sewerage and Related Projects
swssP1=                                             . 1-            I ____-____  
BWSSP       PI-, _ 
BWSE P IIl
MWSSP_   }
So ial Survey _              S
1970     1975      1980     1985      1990     1995      2000      2005
Legend:  -      Planned Period
- - - Extended Period
Note: Social Survey occurred in 1994 but covered the period 1984-1994. Seepara. 1.22.
1.12   Thephysical objectives of BWSSP-1 were to fully utilize available water sources,
improve the quality of water supply and the efficiency of the distribution system, double the
hours of supply, and rehabilitate and expand the sewerage system. The institutional objectives
were to develop, through technical assistance and training, WSSD's autonomy and capacity to
carry out the development program, and to operate its systems. At the Maharashtra State level,
the objective was to reform the institutional arrangements for managing state-wide water
resources. The financial objectives were to ensure WSSD's viability: operating revenues were to
be sufficient to cover operating expenses, depreciation, interest, debt repayments and at least
one-third of WSSD'S capital expenditures. The institutional and financial objectives were
central to ensuring that the program's benefits would be sustained.
1.13   The objectives of the first project remained substantially unchanged for the subsequent
projects, in large part because they were not attained due to delays, physical cut-backs and, most
importantly, an ever increasing demand driven by population and economic growth.
Implementation
1.14   BWSSP-I (1973-81) encountered severe cost increases during its implementation and
underwent substantial redefinition in 1976, at which time proposed investments for water
distribution pipelines and water meters were reduced and the sewerage components were
dropped.



16
1.15   BWSSP-1I (1978-88) assumed the same physical objectives as BWSSP-I and sought to
continue WSSD's institutional development, but it too encountered implementation problems,
most notably with the sewerage component. BWSSP-III (1987-96), now nearing credit closing,
finances the continued expansion of water supply and wastewater facilities, and, as the earlier
projects, has a component of institutional support for WSSD. BWSSP-III also expands on the
earlier modest (and largely unsuccessful) efforts to provide sanitation and water supply services
to the poor. The incomplete wastewater collection, treatment and disposal components of
BWSSP-I through III are now covered, in a somewhat revised form, by the BSDP3 and are being
undertaken with an enhanced community-based approach that will potentially improve the
likelihood of success. That project also includes a substantial sanitation component.
1.16   Performance Audit Reports (PARs), prepared by OED, have been completed for
BWSSP-I and II and MWSSP. The PAR for BWSSP-I, which rated the outcome as
satisfactory, lauded the achievements of a 30 percent increase in the gross water supply capacity
and the introduction of full water treatment. It noted that the investments were undeniably
essential and probably represented the least cost technical solution. The PAR observed,
however, that the physical achievements were attained with a three-year delay and a 60 percent
cost overrun, and that no sewerage works were undertaken. The PAR credited the project with
building a strong water supply and sewerage institution.
1.17   The PAR for BWSSP-II noted that the water supply components met their objectives,
and while there were modest achievements with regards to sewerage in essence this component
was a failure. The outcome was rated unsatisfactory, sustainability uncertain, and institutional
development moderate.
1.18   There is no audit report for BWSSP-III which is expected to close in June 1996, two
years later than originally planned. The supervision report of January 1996 notes that there is a
disbursement lag of 51 percent but that implementation progress had improved in 1995
compared to earlier years. While many water supply contracts would be completed by
December 1996 and sewerage contracts by March 1997, an additional three years will be
required to complete major distribution facilities (a water conveyance tunnel, a pumping station
and three reservoirs) because of difficulties in awarding contracts and with resettlement. This
would indicate that major institutional difficulties remain.
Evaluation Methodology
Impacts are evaluated through several approaches that include document analysis, site
visits, a survey, a workshop and solicitation of stakeholder opinions. The evaluation considers
the objectives, components, and outcomes of the three projects.
1.19   Taking into acccunt the goal and objectives of the water supply and sewerage program,
this evaluation assesses the impacts on the population and economy of Bombay. It covers
institutional, economic, social, health, and environmental areas. Data for the evaluation is from
relevant docume;-ts and 1ecords, site observations, interviews with personnel, and a field survey,
3. Facilities ir..iuded in the BSDP are shown on map IBRD 26628R.
4. Performance Audit Reports on Bombay Water Supply Sewerage Project 1, Report No. 5875, dated October 1, 1985, Bombay
Water Supply and Sewerage Project II, Report No. 9265. dated December 31, 1990 and Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage
Project, Report No. 7202, dated April 1, 1988.



17
including interviews of household, commercial, and industrial beneficiaries. A workshop was
held in Bombay in May 1996 to review the draft of this report and to obtain the views of
Bombay authorities and beneficiaries.
1.20   The evaluation first considers the physical output i.e., the resultant facilities, and the
technical consequences of those facilities. A similar approach is used for the institutional
development elements of the program. Thereafter, economic, social, institutional, health and
environmental impacts are discussed.
1.21   The evaluation then analyzes the factors which affect, either favorably or unfavorably,
those impacts. The ability of the program's benefits to be sustained is dependent in large part on
the performance of the service delivery institutions, that is MCGB and WSSD. Other key issues
for improving the level of water supply and sanitation services are identified, evaluated and
recommended in Chapter 5, which also suggests future actions.
1.22   The social data of this study are derived from a field survey carried out in late 1994. The
survey covered four (of a total of 23) representative wards in Bombay and involved
questionnaires and interviews of 1,600 households. It sought to obtain information about current
(1994) and retrospective (1984) conditions based upon the respondents' perceptions of the
present and recollections of the past. It addressed access to and utilization of water and
sanitation facilities, how well these facilities function, the costs and affordability of the services,
user satisfaction and their beliefs conceming hygiene and disease.






19
2.  Economic and Social Impacts
Technical Results and Service Levels
Targets for capacity expansion have been met for water supply but not yet for sanitation.
The service level objectives have been only partially achieved mostly because of implementation
delays and strong population growth. Most telling is that the hours of water supply, at two to
eight hours per day, are little better than in 1970. Sewage collection has been notably improved,
but proper disposal is yet to be attained. Community latrines are still a major source of
consumer dissatisfaction.
2.1     Despite substantial investments in the physical plant over the course of the three projects
(see Table 1.1 on page 14), MCGB's original water supply objectives have not been fully
achieved. While there has been a 65 percent increase in the gross supply of water, the population
increased by about the same level, leaving the per capita availability unchanged. Figure 2.1 shows
the progress made in the supply situation from 1971 to 1995. Connections increased by 84 percent,
standpipes by 800 percent, and 75 percent of the connections are now metered (although effective
metering is far lower, see para. 2.12). Water service, however, is still discontinuous at two to eight
hours per day in most areas. Because of this poor quality of service, customers are incurring high
costs for pumping and storage facilities, a solution that is millions of dollars costlier than system
upgrading.5 Following investments in treatment plants, water now meets international standards
when it enters the distribution system but it is subjected to recontamination in the distribution
system because of intermittent and at times negative pressures.6 Annex B presents selected
operational indicators for Bombay and other urban areas. These indicators suggest that average
domestic water consumption in Bombay compares favorably with that in other cities in India and
elsewhere, life of water meters are significantly shorter, staff per 1,000 connections are
significantly more, and that industrial and commercial uses provide a much heavier subsidy than
in other countries examined.
2.2     Wastewater objectives have not been fully met primarily because construction of the key
facilities has not been completed, yet population and wastewater volumes continued to grow.
Facilities to collect sewage are fairly well developed with some 90 percent of the city and 40
percent of the suburbs sewered and the collection, screening and disposal works for the harbor
area at Colaba is completed. But the two wastewater treatment plants and the marine outfalls for
Mahim and Worli, components of BWSSP-II, have not been completed (although the Worli
outfall is partly completed and is in use); they are now included in BSDP. The study finds that
the enforcement of industrial wastewater regulations is weak, further contributing to the poor
environmental conditions.
5. This service discontinuity is as reported by WSSD. In reality, almost half of the 230,000 connections serve buildings which are
equipped with on-site pumps and reservoirs to provide longer durations of service. The total cost of these pumping and storage
facilities can be estimated to exceed US$30 million; this is more than double the cost allocated for system rehabilitation under the
three projects (excluding the cost of additional storage capacity in the system). Another 70,000 connections, which serve the five
million slum dwellers, have few storage options and these consumers must take water whenever WSSD makes it available.
6. Water quality has improved over time. In 1985, the yearly average of water samples deemed unfit was 22 percent; in 1994 this
number declined to 4 percent.



20
Figure 2.1: Bombay Population, Water Supply, and Per Capita Availability (1971-1995)
30
30  ~   240 lcd           BWSSP-III   -_538 mid
25    _., ... -----  ------ ---  -1    a                viisc0b
/2438 mi 4 
V 6.0 ..............     a          ..ilin1 .......... -
20                 -                                    i14.]d..-#|#|  9 ----
./ /1528 mld        _   93 mid       BWSSP-II       c
BWSSP-1
10...... ... .. .............. ..........................  ........ .  .....   ...  ..
5        ........ ...................................................... ........... ............................ 9   9.m i ioan7 1 19>.y} .  ....
6.0 million (1971)
1971        1976        1981        1986         1991        1996
MCGB Service Area Population, millions
0 Aggregate water supply capacity, mid x 100
Water per capita, Icd x 10
2.3     Of the 35,000 latrines in Bombay, 13,000 were built by MCGB and 22,000 by other
organizations, many with World Bank support. While exact data is lacking, a gross calculation
indicates that there are about 170 slum dwellers per latrine. The fact that about 10,000 latrines are
out of commission at any time (while Bombay authorities repair some 800 per year) exacerbates
the situation. The public complains of poor latrine service-at issue is the lack of a sense of
ownership, inappropriate designs and inadequate maintenance.
Economic Impacts
The program has avoided crippling water shortages and brought important economic
benefits particularly to domestic consumers. Achieving the least-cost solution has been
compromised by lengthy delays and cost overruns. The tariffstructure and deficient metering,
billing and collection systems fail to signal the consumer the economic cost of the service,
resulting in water wastage. Rationing supply through service interruptions (as opposed to
demand management through pricing) also promotes uneconomic behavior and increases costs.
2.4     A major economic issue is whether the benefits of the programn exceeded the costs. That
they did is beyond question. Periodic water shortages, interrupted service, and a polluted urban
environment, which cause serious economic disruption and personal hardship, would be far worse
in the absence of the program than even today's unsatisfactory situation. For example, gross
water supply, now about 250 liters per person per day, would be about 150 liters if the Bank-
supported projects had not been undertaken. For all its shortcomings, service levels in Bombay are
better than in other Indian cities, e.g. Madras where economic growth is hampered by large water
shortages.
2.5     The economic rate of return (ERR) was not estimated at appraisal for BWSSP-I; it was
about six percent and 12 percent for BWSSP-II and BWSSP-III, respectively, on the assumption
that the value of water to the consurner is equal to the price charged. Recalculating the ERR for
the program as a whole gives a figure of 6.7 percent, an indication that prices are below the
economic cost of the prograrn calculated with a discount rate of about 10 percent.



21
2.6     It is clear, however, that the value of water service to the consumer far exceeds its
current price for most of the consumers. When and wherever shortages occur, residential and
commercial consumers are willing to purchase water from tanker trucks for as much as Rs 30 per
cubic meter; i.e. 50 times the price that households are charged. Large industrial consumers'
willingness to pay is not as high since they have the cheaper option of recycling wastewater at a
cost of about Rs 15 per cubic meter. The ERR for the program is estimated at 12 percent when
households consumption above basic needs is valued at current prices (a conservative
assumption). It is about 30 percent when this consumption is valued at Rs 15 per cubic meter
(intermediate between the price of WSSD and tanker water). Only a small share of this return
goes to WSSD. Indeed, most consumers, especially households, receive an enormous surplus
(difference between the value of the services to them and the price charged) whereas this surplus
is regative tor many industrial uses.
2.7     Given thai the program was indispensable, did it represent the least cost solution? The
answer is a qualified yes. The major technical solutions and their sequencing generally appear to
be least cost. Costs were higher than anticipated and benefits were postponed, in part because of
severe delays in procurement and construction. Unsatisfactorily designed facilities, such as the
underutiiPzed pu'olic latrines and the partially completed submarine outfalls, posed substantial
costs -sithout benefits and represent economic losses.
2.8     Although the projects included components for system rehabilitation there was a clear
bias during imp!ementation for major construction, and as a consequence important benefits
were foregone which could have accrued from relatively low cost rehabilitation, such as leak
reduction and improved metering. The Bank shares culpability for this, through its agreement to
curtail rehabilitation when the projects underwent mid-course redefinition. In fact, at some
point along the sequence of projects, it would have been desirable, probably in the middle to late
1980s, to have a project exclusively for rehabilitation and institution building. As discussed in
the May 1996 Workshop, the next investment should most certainly be in this area as opposed to
new construction (para. 5.11).
2.9     The level and structure of water supply and sewerage tariffs are matters of economic and
social importance. These impact upon economic viability, equity among consumer groups, and
the ability to manage demand. During the course of the program, tariffs have been raised several
times and as a consequence the financial position of WSSD has generally been satisfactory.
Prices, however, are not in line with economic incremental costs.  Consequently, consumers are
not signaled economic costs, for most of them-the domestic consumers-prices are only a
small fraction of the cost. Thus, wasteful practices are encouraged and the message is given that
large (but uneconomic) capacity expansions are required.
7. In 1994, domestic consumers paid Rs 0.6 and commercial consumers Rs 4.5 to Rs 23 per cubic meter. Water purchased privately
from tanker trucks costs approximately Rs 30 per cubic meter. Assuming that a household would be willing to pay the tanker price,
this difference amounts to a consumer surplus of about Rs 2,000 for a slum household consuming 72 cubic meters/year, equivalent
to 40 lcd in a five-person household, and Rs 8,800 for households consuming 300 cubic meters/year. However, it is likely that the
latter would consume less if faced with tanker unit costs and this surplus would be lower.
8. The incremental cost of water based on estimates prepared in 1994 is expected to be in the range of Rs2.9 to Rs3.9 per cubic
meter. This cost will depend upon the projects selected. The cost estimates include the cost of source development, transmission
mains, pumping, and water treatment but does not include the cost of distribution.



22
2.10   The tariff structure discriminates against commercial and industrial (C&I) consumers in
favor of domestic consumers. In 1994, C&I tariffs ranged from seven to 38 times those of
domestic tariffs, and while C&I consumers took some 10 percent9 of the water sold, they
generated 80 percent of the revenues. This deliberate policy of industrial consumers heavily
subsidizing domestic consumers encourages wasteful consumption by the latter which could be
put to good economic use by others. Moreover, the level of subsidy is not essential to ensure that
domestic consumers can afford piped water. The poorest households, those earning Rs 900 a
month, are estimated to spend less than one percent of income on their water bill, a figure that is
low by developing country standards.'0
2.11   The high cost of water has prompted several industries to treat and recycle water at costs
of three to six times the cost of the public supply. The highest marginal cost of water to an
industrial consumer was Rs. 23 per cubic meter. This rate compares unfavorably with waste
water recycling costs of Rs 8-15 per cubic meters liters and desalination costs of Rs. 20 per
cubic meter. Consequently, several industries have opted to recycle waste water for cooling.
Further, some industries have resorted to treating their effluents and they refuse to pay sewage
charges. These factors have adversely affected WSSD's revenues. The relocation of water-
intensive industries of course has its plus side also, for it makes more water available to other
users without expanding the capacity of supply. But many commercial users, such as hotels,
have no relocation option and are forced to live with the quality of service and the price of
whatever the public authorities impose on them.
2.12   The use of price as an economic signal depends upon the system having a well operating
metering, billing and collection system. At present 25 percent of the connections are not metered
and 80 percent of the meters do not function, so metering is effective for only 15 percent of the
customers. Accounts receivable are high and, according to the social survey, more than 30
percent of the customers pay nothing for water. For most consumers there is no price constraint
on consumption and consequently the utility must rely upon physical rationing. Improvements
in metering and revenue collections are essential if sound economic and financial policies are to
be pursued (para. 5.15), however, the low price charged for water provides WSSD with little
incentive to act in this area. The Bombay authorities would appreciate having the Bank's
assistance in the area of tariffs, metering and collection; Box 2.1 illustrates one successful
experiment.
2.13    Service interruptions used to ration water are a key impediment to a rational use of water
in several ways. First, water is wasted by households who throw out that which is left from the
previous day's storage, and additional water is wasted by localities which daily flush out
accumulated pipeline sediments; second, pressure interruptions make metering less acceptable
and technically unreliable; and third, poor service quality makes tariff adjustments less
acceptable to the consumers.
2.14   In most societies the majority of commodities, even essential ones such as food and
water, are allocated on the basis of the cost of production and the consequent price to the
consumer. Water service in Bombay (as in many other cities in India), where the primary
allocation mechanism is physical rationing, is an exception. Experience has shown that utilities
which use the price mechanism are more efficient and more responsive to consumer needs, and
9. Report of The Expert Committee (Water Planning) on Bombay's Future Water Resources and Improvement in Present Water
Supply Schemes, December 1994, Pg. 18-14.
10. In intemational development practice, commonly accepted figures for low income groups range from one percent to five
percent.



23
that consumers are willing to pay full costs for water and sanitation services that meet their
expectations.
Box 2.1: Metering Project in the Town of Pusad
In 1980, 2,000 water meters were installed in Pusad, a rural town with a population of
30,000 people in Maharashtra. Of the cost of US$25 per meter, consumers contributed US$18,
with the balance furnished by the municipality. Although the qualities of the meters were often
inadequate, the effects of the project have been positive.
After the project the system provided 24-hour service, compared to an intermittent
service of 7 hours daily before. Pressures also rose to satisfactory levels throughout the system.
One practical effect was that whereas some consumers previously had had to install their taps in
specially prepared below ground pits to be able to obtain water from the system, they
subsequently obtained direct delivery to their second floor bathrooms.
Previously, water charges were based only on the size of the connection. The meter
installation made a volume-based tariff possible, and thus turned operating losses of US$12,000
into an operating surplus of US$4,300. The effective cost increase to consumers was estimated
at 64 percent. At about 3 percent of household income for those just above the poverty line of
US$945 per year in 1991, billings were readily collected, indicating consumers' willingness to
pay.
The internal rate of return for the metering project was nearly 30 percent.
Reference: Meterization in Developing Countries - A Case Study, by Mr. S. S. Patwardhen, Mahrashtra Water Supply and
Sewerage Board, 1981.
2.15   Price need not be an impediment to the poor having access to service, as a life-line block
of water may be made available to all in the design of the tariff structure. The cost of basic
supply (40 lcd) to a household of five persons paying the MCGB full cost of RS 2.3 per cubic
meter is only Rs 15 per month. This amount is considered affordable to poor families earning Rs
900 per month; 1.7 percent of the household income. Also, from an economic standpoint, it is
preferable to otffer subsidies to the poor for the cost of connection and for other price inelastic
items as opposed to subsidies for volumetrically measurable supply. Presently, the WSSD's
tariff structure subsidizes both elements: the cost of connections as well as the water supply. If
water supply needs to be subsidized at all, it should be restricted to (i) a first block for basic
needs as is done by many utilities worldwide, (ii) the poorest households and (iii) the price
should cover at least the recurrent costs. This would help to ensure the rational use of water
while efficiently redistributing income.



24
2.16   The same economic arguments are valid for sanitation. However, experience in other
countries shows that willingness to pay for wastewater removal, treatment and disposal is not as
evident as for water supply and sanitation because the waste producer does not experience full and
direct benefits. Thus, for wastewater management the use of a mix of volumetric pricing and
property taxation, as is now the case in Bombay, is appropriate.
Social Impacts
Consumers complain about the inconvenience of partial day water service, the poorly
designed and operated sanitation facilities, and storm drains that are clogged with refuse. The
poor and especially women and children mostfrequently bear the burdens of these deficiencies.
2.17   A survey of 1,600 households carried out in four wards of Greater Bombay as part of this
study compared conditions at the time of the survey, December 1994, with those of 10 years
earlier. The wards and the respondents within the wards were chosen to provide a representative
mix of water and sewerage services as well as income levels and housing types. Data was
dsaggregated by gender and cultural characteristics.
2.1 i   The s-.;rvey interviewed individuals and focus groups and observed facility use. As there
was no sirmilar baseline data, the respondents were asked in 1994 to recall the situation of 10 years
earlier. The ; espondents were queried about access and quality of services; costs, satisfaction and
affordability, aid hygienic beliefs and practices. Relying upon recall has its weakness but the
approach was deemed to be the most suitable way to judge change over the decade which the first
and seco9d projects impacted.
2.19   The survey results indicate that, for water supply, coverage with house connections
increased from 46 percent in 1984 to 62 percent in 1994 and standpipe use remained constant at
37 percent, but access to 24-hour supply decreased from 36 percent to 22 percent. The use of
wells declined from 9 percent to 1 percent, probably because well water became increasingly
contaminated and piped water became more available. For those who receive partial day service a
major complaint is that water often reaches them in the early morning hours, thereby causing stress
and hardship, particularly on women. Twenty percent of the respondents spend more than one
hour per day collecting water (compared to 24 percent in 1984) but those in the Mahim
fisherman's colony spend an average of 4-5 hours per day. Some 80 percent of the respondents do
not trust the potability of the supply.
2.20   The situation is especially bleak for consumers that do not have house connections. Some
36 percent fetch water whenever and however they can; for the others water is allocated by locally
organized quotas, time periods or queuing. Almost 80 percent of the respondents who use
standpipes report that most of the local quarrels take place around common taps. In a recent and
promising development, in lieu of free standpipes WSSD now offers self-organized groups metered
connections which, for a fee, serve 5 to 15 households each.
2.21   The survey indicates that almost one third of the respondents believe that they do not pay
for water. Among them, half are tenants and they probably pay indirectly through rents or other
arrangements with connected households. This payment is loosely or not at all related to
consumption. Significantly, some 20 percent of homeowners stated that they do not pay for water
revealing an WSSD administrative weakness. Water revenue collections at standpipes have
improved over the decade, however-three fourths of the respondents indicate that they did not pay



25
for standpipe water a decade ago; only one fourth do not pay at present. As noted in para. 2.10,
most consumers are able to pay the present level of tariffs. Willingness to pay may be another
matter, as evidenced by the low level of collections and reports of willful damage to meters,
possibly out of frustration with the low quality of service.
2.22   It is not uncommon to find, as in this survey, that when water is scarce and allocated by
physical manipulation instead of price it is typically the poor, those who cannot afford house
connections, booster pumps and costly water storage facilities, and women and children, the
principal water haulers, who bear the greater burdens in terms of access and convenience. The
survey data indicates that, other than an increase in house connections, little progress has been
made in key indicators for consumer satisfaction. This may help to explain why WSSD is not held
in high esteem by its customers.
2.23   With regards to sanitation, access to latrine facilities in slum areas increased from 77
percent to 84 percent but almost all slum dwellers surveyed complain of inappropriate design,
numerical inadequacy and poor maintenance. In the poorer wards more than half of the children
use open field defecation. In non-slum areas almost all the households are served by toilet
facilities, for which the program deserves credit. About one-third of respondents indicated that
they were willing to pay more for toilet facilities if they were improved. Consumer preference is
for clean facilities which are well lighted, with water supply and connected to sewerage.
2.24   Pay-and-use latrines which are connected to sewers and operated by the private sector in
high traffic areas, and alternative community-operated facilities for slum dwellers are successful in
Bombay. For example, 40 of the toilets built under BUDP are operated by a community group in
the fisherman's colony of Colaba and cleaning and maintenance are considered by the users to be
satisfactory. Group members may use the facilities at a monthly contribution of Rs. 15-20 per
family. There are other examples of successful latrine programs in India-Gujarat has one that
serves households and it may be an appropriate model." 1
2.25   Overall, it would appear that the impact of the communal latrine program could have been
greater had it responded better to consumer needs, with regards to both facility design and
operation. Consultation with beneficiaries and a capital cost contribution from them would impart
a sense of ownership and respect for the facilities and help to ensure their sustainability. The
report finds that Bombay authorities and the Bank have placed great reliance on publicity, demand
assessment and consultation in the design of the latrine component of BSDP.
2.26   Consultation with all the stakeholders may also help improve the rules that were followed
to mitigate the impact of reservoir construction in the watershed area. Monetary compensation was
paid for the change in land use, mostly to government as a forests owner. Local dwellers were
offered jobs and new water supply by MCGB but no resettlement compensation.
11. Performance Audit Report on Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 1280-IN) dated June 10, 1996, Report numnber
15715.






27
3.    Institutional and Financial Impacts
WSSD is a moderately well run organization but construction was beset with lengthy
delays, and operational performance is still weak in the areas of staffproductivity, leakage
detection and repairs and metering. Financialperformance is adequate but is too dependent on a
narrow revenue base made up of commercial and industrial users and on taxes and hidden
subsidies from the Government of India to cover the foreign exchange losses on borrowings for
WSSD.
Institutional Overview
3.1    WSSD was established in 1971 as a step in the preparation of the first project. Prior to
that, responsibility for water supply and sewerage was divided among various units of the
Bombay government. Technical planning and development were weak and poorly coordinated,
and operations and maintenance were fair at best. Financial accounts were blended with general
municipal accounts. Water charges covered cash expenditures and one-third of the cost of the
very low investment level. There was no charge for sewerage.
3.2    Responsibilities for water resources were historically fragmented among several state
agencies and uncontrolled development of scarce water was occurring. Therefore it was agreed
under BWSSP-I that an appropriate authority for water resources management would be
established by 1975.
3.3    A major institutional gain was made under BWSSP-I in 1973 when WSSD's status was
upgraded to an autonomous Department with a unified management structure and its own
accounting and financial budgets. This contributed to coordinated water and sewerage planning,
raised the level of technical operations and gave the utility a firm basis for growth. In 1992,
storm water drainage was added to WSSD's portfolio.
3.4    The Performance Audit Reports for BWSSP-I (1985) and BWSSP-II (1990) credited
WSSD with a sound financial position but also cited areas for improvement. These include
reducing the excessive reliance on the water/sewer benefit tax, which generate some 32 percent
of the revenues but is not based on volumetric metering; reducing the accounts receivable, which
stood at 68 percent of billings in 1989 against the target of 20 percent; and paying serious
attention to revenue losses through unaccounted-for-water.
3.5    The PARs' views on institutional performance are backed by findings of this evaluation.
The dependence on non-volumetric charges continues to be high and increased to 41 percent in
1994 because attempts at metering were half hearted and not sustained (see Annex A, Table 7).
Further, the number of meters out of order is at 80 percent. Accounts receivables in 1994-95
stood at 60 percent of billing. The problem continues without improvement because 22 percent
of current receivables in 1994-95 remained uncollected.
Operational Performance
3.6    Staffing for the water supply function, for example, is exceptionally high at about 96
staff per thousand connections compared to sector norms of 5-20. Manually opening and



28
closing some 650 valves throughout the day in order to ration and equitably distribute water may
contribute to this high figure. Another factor contributing to the high staffing level is the
WSSD's approach of hand-delivering water bills to all customers because several water
connections in slums have no postal addresses.
3.7    Trends in staff productivity have varied by function (see Annex A, Table 10). The staff
productivity of the pumping function has improved in that the pumping per staff increased. Staff
productivity in the water treatment function and the water production function have remained
generally steady or improved slightly. The productivity of the valve operation function,
however, deteriorated noticeably with a 20 percent decrease in efficiency from 1985 to 1995.
The productivity of the meter reading staff appears to have improved by 60 percent, from 341
meters per staff in 1985 to 537 in 1995. However, this apparent improvement is misleading
because of the very large number of non-operational meters; 80 percent of these meters are
suspected not to work properly or at all. Significant opportunities for improvement are evident
in the metering and valve operation functions.
3.8    Unaccounted-for water reportedly would be in the order of 40-60 percent on a 24-hour
supply basis whereas 25 percent was a BWSSP-I target for 1981. . Actual water losses are less
than 40 percent because the pipelines are not pressurized 24 hours a day.
3.9    While there has been considerable effort at staff training, some of the benefits have been
lost due to staff rotation and attrition. In addition some staff report that the use of consultants for
project supervision is excessive and undermines staff training, morale, and effectiveness.
3.10   WSSD has recently organized to take greater advantage of private sector participation.
Large construction contracts have traditionally been awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding but now WSSD also engages contractors on an annual basis to renew service lines, lay
small water mains, provide fire hydrants and clear storm water drains.
3.11    Throughout the program and even to this day procurement and construction is beset by
delays, in part because of inadequately detailed specifications, cumbersome procurement
procedures which on occasion require 520 days to achieve an award, poorly qualified contractors
and unsatisfactory control and supervision of construction. )3 In addition, there were major
design issues under BWSSP-II, some not fully controllable by WSSD, which held up both
design and construction of sewerage components.
3.12   Monitoring indicators called for under BWSSP-III, which would have provided WSSD
with management data on the parameters shown in Table 3.1, have not been generated by
WSSD. Bank staff do not seem to have been persistent on this matter during the course of
supervision. WSSD's ability to manage its resources and meet the needs of its clients is
dependent upon the development and use of key indicators. The lack of data which these
indicators would have provided also hindered the work of this impact study.
12. WSSD started a leakage reduction program in 1971 which continued for a few years. but there are no records of its
accomplishments. It decided to repeat a similar program in 1981 but no significant actions have in fact been undertaken.
13. This evaluation understands that the procurement process has been streamlined under BSDP.



29
Table 3.1: Monitoring Indicators Called for Under BWSSP-III
Physical Criteria                        Staffing
*   Water production; water quality; water  .   Number of employees
consumption; number of connections, public
standpipes, meters and leaks repaired  Financial
*   Number of sewer connections          *  Average cost per 10,000 liters of water delivered
*   Communal sanitation facilities       *  Average water revenue
quick current ratio
General Indicators                       *  Average age of customer recoverable
*   Population, Greater Bombay           *  Collection efficiency
population, city areas               *  Debt to equity ratio
*   Population, suburbs                  *  Rate of retum on assets
*   Total population served by private
connections                          Facilitiesfor the Poor
.   Total population served by public standpipes   .   Lengths of service mains; number of storage tanks and tubewells
3.13    There may be some improvement in this area, however, as WSSD now  produces the
monitoring indicators called for under BSDP. How it uses this data is another question; for
example, the data show that only 15 percent of the domestic connections have working meters-
a situation that has prevailed for years-yet there does not seem to have been a response by
management. Some of the present monitoring indicators are of lower importance than others and
some critical parameters, such as those concerning water and sanitation services to the poor, are
not adequate. The study suggests that the matter of monitoring indicators be revisited by WSSD
management with the view of producing data which are key to the performance of WSSD and on
which action can be taken. Indicators with targets should also be used to improve the
accountability of group managers within WSSD.
3.14    Starting in 1972 the Bank has urged officials of Maharashtra State to develop and
manage water resources in a comprehensive, multisectoral way. Through 1994 state-wide water
resources management and development was undertaken by a single sector agency, the
Maharashtra Irrigation Department. In 1995 a state-level water resources authority, headed by
the Chief Minister, was created. The board members include representatives from irrigation,
agriculture, industry, and urban and rural development. The authority is responsible for
formulating water resources policy and addressing issues such as allocating water between
competing interests. This represents a major improvement in water management strategy, but it
remains to be seen how well the authority functions.
3.15    This evaluation concludes that while there was noteworthy progress in utility formation
and management early in the program, and WSSD's financial health appears to be satisfactory,
other areas of institutional performance are weak. The expected institutional impacts have not
been fully realized and this puts sustainability at risk.
Financial Performance
3.16    A utility's financial position is a key indicator of its overall performance, its ability to
sustain itself and to render quality service. By this measure, even though industrial subsidization
of domestic consumption is high, WSSD does well. As evidence, WSSD's contribution to the
large capital expenditures of the program exceeded 40 percent. Tariffs at the onset of the
program were inadequate in level and structure so BWSSP-I set stringent financial requirements
on the fledgling utility. Eight rate hikes over the period 1976-1994 (Figure 3.1) helped WSSD to



30
generally meet the revenue targets prescribed in the Loan Agreements. It is noteworthy, however,
that the domestic tariffs barely increased. The conscious strategy to shift the revenue burden from
the domestic consumers to the industrial and commercial consumers has resulted in the situation
that some 10 percent of the water sold generates 80 percent of the revenues. The increasing
dependency on a progressively narrower revenue base exposes the WSSD to significant revenue
losses if industries decide to relocate or develop cheaper sources for water.
Figure 3.1: Commercial and Household Water Tariffs
250
200 -
upper bound of non-domestic
150  
:   ,  100
lower bound of n n-domestic
50
do estic
0
1970   1975   1980   1985   1990   1995
Year
3.17   The WSSD receives a subsidy from the Government of India (GOI) which assumes the
exchange rate risk. The GOI has undertaken IDA credits with a repayment period of 50 years.
Since the 1996 value of the Rupee against the US dollar is approximately 25 percent of its value in
1974, this has resulted in a significant exchange loss to the GOI. The cumulative loss through
1995 amounts to approximately Rs 670 million on credits of Rs 2,039 million for BWSSP-I and
DWSSP-II. Unless the Rupee revalues, these losses are likely to increase significantly in the
future. One estimate suggests that the GOI may incur an unforeseen loss of Rs 46,730 million on
orig'nal credits of Rs 3,918 million by the time all three credits, including BWSSP-III, are repaid
in the year 2036. In different terms, while the GOI obtained the credits at an expected annualized
cost of approximately 0.5 percent, the cost may actually be more than 10 times as high, in the
range of six to eight percent per annum. This loss also results in a subsidy from the GOI to the
WSSD which is not refiected in the latter's financial statements. The GOI exchange rate loss of Rs.
'35 million realized in 1995 translates into a six percent or Rs 0.15 per cubic meter increase in the
cost of water (Annex B, Table 11). This loss is equivalent to a GOI subsidy of at least Rs. 100 per
annum for each Bombay resident.
3. i 8 In the end, the full cost of water, including cash expenses (employee costs, utility services,
repairs and maintenance, interest and equity payments, administrative and general expenses),
depreciation and exchange rate losses amounts to Rs 2.45 per cubic meter. This cost may also be
detailed as follows: water supply Rs 1.41; sewerage Rs 0.59; storm water and other, Rs 0.30 and
foreign exchange losses, Rs 0.15.
3.19   Cross subsidization between different WSSD customers is evidently huge. Domestic
consumers pay only Rs 0.60 per cubic meter or 24 percent of the full cost. Industrial and



3'
commercial users pay according to an increasing block schedule. Since the latest tariff increases
in April 1996, the smallest consumers among them pay Rs 6 per cubic meter or about 2.5 times
the full cost. The larger consumers pay Rs 35 per cubic meter or more than 14 times the full
*ost.
3.20   Cross subsidizations between different WSSD functions is also evident. Approximately
60 percent of the WSSD revenues derive from water charges, and another 32 percent from
wastewater charges. The remaining revenues accrue mainly from general revenues and storm
water drainage charges. Approximately 61 percent of direct costs are associated with water
supply. Wastewater costs are approximately 26 percent and storm water drainage costs are
approximately 13 percent. Thus, sewage charges help subsidize the provision of storm water
drainage. This finding is noteworthy because the storm water drains were added to the WSSD
portfolio in 1992. The subsidy to the storm water drainage functions needs to be addressed along
with the overall tariff structure reform.






33
4.  Health and Environmental Impacts
Health Impacts
Although improved health was a goal of the program, little change in the levels of water-
borne diseases has been observed While water quality has improved, other factors which were
not targeted by the program, such as hygienic practices, health education and health services,
have also affected health impacts.
4.1     A comprehensive study in 198214 found that on average five percent of the population
suffered from water-related diseases each year. The average rate of unfit water samples taken
frcm patients' households was 54 percent, with no difference noted in slum or non-slum areas. It
was estimated at the time that children below 12 years of age were four times more likely to get
water-related diseases than adults, and that one third of deaths were due to water-related
diseases. The study concluded that the supply of filtered and chlorinated water would reduce the
morbidity due to water-related diseases if it reached the tap in a potable state.
4.2     Aware of the link between water and disease, the intervention model foresaw
improvements in public health with improvements in water supply service and potability. While
supply hours did not expand markedly as a result of the program, the number of standpipes
expanded by 800 percent from 1971-1994 and coverage with house connections increased (para.
2.1). Additionally, full treatment to improve water quality came on line in 1981.
4.3     The impact study reviewed data on the incidence of severe diarrhea and vomiting as
reported at Kasturba Hospital, which is situated within the boundaries served by MCGB, and
found that health conditions improved only slightly after the water supply improvements (see
Figure 4.l1).15
4.4     While these data may be too limited to draw definitive conclusions, it is clear that an
important health indicator did not undergo a significant improvement despite the water and
sewerage program. This may be because the levels of water availability and access, despite
improvements, are still inadequate. Also, the quality of water, despite treatment, is compromised
because the distribution system is intermittently pressurized and the water is thereby subject to
recontamination, especially during the monsoon season. Poor garbage collection and latrine
facilities further contribute to the problem.
14. The Health Survey was conducted by the Health Department of the MCGB in 1982: Data were provided from the household
survey (active surveillance), and from dispensaries (passive surveillance). More recent water sampling data reveals a steady
improvement in water quality, however, at monsoon time the numbers of unacceptable samples exceed 10 percent.
15. The Socio-Economic Review of Greater Bombay (1993-94) prepared by the Center for Research and Development, Bombay,
suggests that the significance of gastroenteritis in the distribution of deaths is declining. Further, a statistical analysis suggests that
the number of diarrhea cases is declining annually at the rate of two cases per million people. These improvements are considered
to be minor.



34
Figure 4.1: Incidence of Diarrhea & Vomiting, Kasturba Hospital, Bombay (1972-1993)
3501
I  300-
Before full treatment  1981    After full treatment
250            of water supply  +     of water Supply
200                          ~~~~~~~~~~1985
monsoon    1988
150-                                            monsoon
150
J 100-o
0
00            0x
4.5    Water, sewerage and latrine services are not the sole determinants of health. The general
level of sanitation in the household and the community, hygienic practices with regard to food,
water and personal care, and nutrition and health care all play important roles. A successful health
intervention effort requires more than physical facilities, it also requires raising awareness,
improving education, and a cadre of health workers who can provide sustained support to the
community-measures which were, perhaps appropriately, not included because of costs and
institutional conflicts which would have overburdened an already large program. But having said
this, certainly the health situation was not helped by the secondary role assigned to sewerage and
sanitation relative to water supply in the early years of the program, and by sanitation taking a
larger share of the cutbacks when cost overruns forced the redefinition of BWSSP-I and II.
Environmental Impacts
Environmental conditions at the street level have improved because of expanded
sewerage coverage. Shoreline pollution has also decreased in selected areas because two
marine outfalls, one completed and one partially complete, are in service. But much remains to
be done as three-fourths of the collected sewage is still discharged to creeks and coastal waters
without treatment.
4.6    The sewerage components were intended to provide the primary environmental benefits of
the program. The sewerage component of BWSSP-I was dropped during project revisions in 1976,
and eventually included in BWSSP-II. But technical, managerial and contractual difficulties have
postponed even to this day the completion of several key sewerage components in BWSSP-II and
even its follow-on project, BWSSP III. While sewerage systems have been expanded, thereby
relieving street-level pollution in the areas served, 75 percent of the collected sewage is discharged



35
without treatment to creeks and coastal waters. Most of the other 25 percent is de-gritted, screened
and discharged into coastal waters via a 0.5 km outfall at Worli. 6
4.7     The commissioning of outfalls reduces the total coliform concentration at the shore by a
factor of one thousand'7 and improves the aesthetic appearance of the water. However, in the
Worli area, the outfall is too short to protect the recreational beaches from exposure to sewage:
beaches at risk from sewage redeposition include Dadar during the Monsoon season and Bandra
during other times of the year.
4.8     Another outfall was commissioned at Colaba, a service area with about 300,000
residential and commercial consumers; it is 1I.1 km long and preliminary investigations suggest that
the sewage plume from this outfall may move safely out to sea without posing a threat to the shore
line. However, the sewage discharged through this outfall disposes of only one percent of the total
sewage collected by the conveyance system.
4.9     The discharge of untreated sewage is detrimental to the environment. The completion of
the water supply components of the program exacerbate this condition, for they have increased the
volume of wastewater which must be managed.
4.10    A program for addressing the above shortcomings is the essence of the BSDP which
started in 1995. The fact that this project was subjected to a comprehensive environmental
assessment (EA) in accordance with regulations that did not govern the earlier projects provides a
level of confidence that environmental concerns are appropriately addressed. Indeed, the EA
process prompted a design change which is worthy of note: public consultation revealed a demand
for a more meaningful sanitation component to meet the environmental needs of poorer households,
and the project was modified accordingly. But citizens also complain about uncollected garbage
and clogged drains,"8 problems which call for institutional improvements as opposed to capital
investnents.
4.11    Overall, some positive environmental impact was achieved within BWSSP-I , II and III.
But the long awaited substantial benefits of the program will be achieved only with the completion
of BSDP in the year 2002. Additional projects will also be necessary because of continued urban
and economic growth.
16. Although the 3 kilometer Worli outfall is not complete, 0.5 kilometers are now in use and there has been a noticeable improvement in
the water quality along the westemn shore. Before the project about 500 mid of waste water was discharged on the shore. Aflter the project
this outflow, which has increased to 700-900 mid, is channeled off shore by the outfall.
17. From dilution experiments at Colaba, it is estimated that the total coliform concentration in a 100 rnl sample taken before
commissioning the outfall would be 107coliforms; the count of a similar sample is now estimated to be 104 coliforms.
18. WSSD staff explained at the May 1996 Workshop that they have a regular program for drain cleaning. This seens to contradict the
finding of the Social Survey.






37
5.  Factors and Recommendations for Sustainability
5.1    Sustainability as used here is the ability to maintain the benefits of the program as they
are, now without further external inputs. There are several factors which affect the level of
positive impacts and their sustainability, and these are briefly described below.
Factors which Affect Impacts
Impacts are affected by both internal and externalfactors. WSSD has direct control
over internalfactors such as the management of construction, maintenance and operations.
However, Maharashtra State and MCGB set policies and laws which govern and control
WSSD'sfreedc,m of action;for example, MCGB sets tariff levels and structures, the design of
which is in part politically driven. Otherfactors extend to worldwide conditions, such as global
inflation and the shortage of materials in the 1970s.
5.2    The Bombay region is blessed with the availability of an educated work force and a strong
industrial base, and MCGB benefits from this situation in the construction of new facilities and the
tnanagement of its assets. But the impact of these attributes on the cost and quality of MCGB
services appears to be below potential: WSDD has too many performance problems with
equipment such as water meters and some pumps; it also notes that civil works may be too small to
attract the best local contractors.
5.3    Three factors adversely affected the performance of the programn. First are the factors over
which program officials had no control-for example, the macroeconomic shocks of the 1 970s
which caused worldwide inflation and shortages of energy-intensive materials such as plastic pipe
and cement. A large part of the cost increases and material shortages experienced in BWSSP-I
may be attributable to this cause.
5.4    Second are the factors which fall under the purview of state and local officials. These
include urban policies and political expediencies which encouraged the rapid growth of the slums
and complicated the delivery of efficient and effective urban services. Inadequate property
registration and cumbersome civil service regulations and procedures for the selection of
contractors and the settlement of claims also limited WSSD's ability to effectively carry out
projects and manage its operations. The streamlining of procurement procedures agreed upon
recently for the implementation of BSDP is a welcome development.
5.5    The MCGB, and not the WSSD, sets the tariff level and structure, and the inappropriate
domestic tariff appears to be driven by political rather than economic considerations. WSSD's
finances are heavily reliant on a narrow shrinking revenue base provided by industrial and
commercial consumers, on taxes, and on the fact that the growing foreign exchange losses
associated with its borrowing are borne by the Government of India.
5.6    Third are the factors internal to WSSD. These factors include project design issues as
occurred with the marine outfalls; a predisposition for construction as opposed to strengthening
operational performance through leak reduction, effective metering, billing and collection, and
other operation and maintenance activities. An overarching consequence of these practices is the
long interruption of service each day which in turn has an adverse impact on health benefits and



38
economic efficiency (uneconomic evasion of services by industries, higher cost of individual
storage compared to large scale storage in each service area).
5.7   Inadequate consultation of users by WSSD during the project formulation process
increased the risk that full benefits would not be achieved. Consultation stimulates the
participation and commitment of the various stakeholders in paying for, using and maintaining the
end product. It also fosters a more thorough examination of alternative ways of achieving project
objectives and helps to ensure that even people who may not be beneficiaries (for example, people
who live on proposed reservoir sites) are not adversely affected without compensation. India and
other developing countries, as well as development agencies, have come to recognize the
importance of consultation in the late 1980s, but there was little if any consultation during the
preparation of BWSSP-I and II.
5.8    One can only speculate on the outcomes had consultation been more extensive. Possibly
the latrines would have been designed differently, maintained better and put to fuller use as
demonstrated by the experience of the BUDP; possibly there would have been fewer cutbacks in
sewerage and sanitation at the time the projects were redefined; possibly a stronger effort would
have been made to provide more convenient water service; and possibly willingness to pay and the
image of WSSD would be stronger. It is to the credit of the authorities that consultation played an
important role in the design of BSDP in 1994-95.
Recommendations
Unless the facilities meet their objectives over time, the value of the investments in them
will be lost. The most important determinants for sustainability are sound institutions which are
responsive to consumer needs, and financial viability. Using water resources efficiently and
equitably among competing sectors, and not overburdening the environment with wastes, are
keys to environmental sustainability. In each of these areas there is room for improvement.
Improve the Institution
5.9    The key to sustaining the present level of service is a strong institution, and in this area
there is room for improvement in Bombay. Staffing is excessive and procedures are cumbersome;
and unaccounted-for water is high. Performance is weak for metering, billing and collection. In
view of these weaknesses sustainability is uncertain. In the past, capital expansions and tariff
increases were used to cover institutional shortcomings. If this approach were replaced by one
which extracts maximum benefits from existing facilities by concentrating on rehabilitation and
improving operations, it would lay the foundation for an affordable gain in the reliability and
quality of service and help to ensure that the original goals of the program are fulfilled and
sustained.
5.10   Accordingly, there is need for an examination of institutional issues pertaining to WSSD
and the governance and regulatory framework within which it operates. This examination should
focus on the soundness and inconsistencies from a scheme to another of water and wastewater
policies, particularly water and sewerage tariffs; expanding the roles for the private sector in both
investment and operations areas; and listening to and responding better to consumer concerns.
Training and assistance had been provided under the program but there is a continuing need for this
because ofjob rotation and attrition.



39
Improve the Quality of Water Service
5.11   Both investment and operational measures need to be taken to improve the quality of
water service as perceived by consumers. With respect to water supply this would require a
major rehabilitation effort with the goal of providing consumers with 24-hour, uninterrupted
water service. This would help to ensure that the water remains potable; improve consumer
convenience; reduce expenditures for private water storage facilities; and reduce WSSD's
management and labor costs. Equally important, the public's low image of the utility would
improve.
5.12    Programs to detect and repair leaks and to improve the metering, billing and collection
functions would be essential, integral parts of this rehabilitation effort. Because of difficulties
that are likely to be encountered, particularly in areas where the pipe networks are tangled and
meters are willfully destroyed, it should be approached incrementally, be carefully monitored for
costs, benefits and social implications, and be started in a zone where conditions are most
conducive to success. Because the support of the consumers is essential, the effort must be
accompanied with a public education campaign.
5.13    Is a 24-hour, uninterrupted service feasible? The PAR for BWSSP-II estimates that it is
feasible both technically and financially. And an analysis by this impact study of data for the
year 1991 from the appraisal report for BWSSP-III appears to confirm this. If the average
domestic consumption were 135 liters per person per day (instead of the 182 lcd assumed in the
report), and industrial demand and losses were equal to the appraisal targets, gross demand
would equal gross supply and rationing by interrupting service would not be necessary.
5.14   But is 135 lcd domestic demand realistic? Probably yes, given that almost half of the
population live in slums, where consumption would be low because much of the water is carried.
Indeed, 135 lcd could provide 60 lcd for slum dwellers and 200 lcd for non-slum dwellers. For
comparison, average consumption in the UK and in Brazil is 136 and 151 lcd, respectively; the
Maharashtra Wlater Supply and Sewerage Board uses 120 and 50 lcd for house connections and
standpipes, respectively; and WSSD itself estimates that the present consumption by apartment
dweliers to be 135 lcd.
5.15    Measures for achieving a 24-hour supply include reducing waste by consumers; reducing
physical losses in the system; adding additional system storage and reconfiguring parts of the
transmission and distribution systems. Assuming metering and collections have been made
effective, unfettered demand could be managed by restructuring tariffs to better reflect costs for
any consumption above a life-line block. Physical losses would climb with pipes under pressure
the full day, but the appraisal target of 24 percent losses is not unrealistic provided a vigorous
rehabilitation program is undertaken.'9
5.16    Another hurdle is to change the mind-set of the officials of Bombay and perhaps even of
the consumers. The officials claim that Bombay is unique, that it already provides better water
service than other major cities of India, and that the "good" water service attracts migrants.
Some consumers may have become resigned to their fate, and others who can afford it have
19. A study by WSSD found that introducing 24-hours supply to an experimental area required 50 to 60 percent more water. But in
the study physical leakage was not disaggragated from consumer consumption, nor was there an effort to reduce leakage, improve
metering or charge approoriate tariffs, which is the package this evaluation is advocating. The findings of this study suggest the
significant potential for increasing water availability via conservation.



40
installed tanks and pumps with WSSD subsidies. This evaluation adheres to the view commonly
held worldwide, that anything less than 24 hours of water supply is unsatisfactory, if better
service is technically and economically possible as it is in Bombay.
Improve the Quality of Sanitation Services
5.17   The final need is to provide, or cause to be provided, adequate sanitation facilities and
services for the disadvantaged. Past government efforts at this were not successful. The ongoing
Bombay Sewage Disposal Project contains a slum sanitation component which would serve 20
percent of the five million slum dwellers. It has a better chance of success than earlier efforts
because it actively involves the community. The social survey reveals the needs: better
technology and improved operations and maintenance. Recent learning reveals that latrines need
water supply, must be connected to sewers, be adequately drained, and be equipped with lights.
Community-organized maintenance works better than that provided by government. The
coi.imunity-based approach of the BSDP should be monitored and its successes replicated; other
examiples of successful community-organized sanitation in Bombay may also serve as useful
models.



41
6.    Conclusions
The planners of the program faced daunting challenges because of the backlog of unmet
demand and subsequent economic and population growth. Despite huge investments the original
investment goal of improved health and access to water and sanitation services has not
materializedfor a large portion of the population. But had there not been a program the present
situation would be catastrophic. At the May 1996 workshop, a near-term plan to tackle the
major current problems emerged. to focus on system rehabilitation; to pilot a program for
providing 24-hour water supply; to improve the provision of sanitation; and to restructure water
and sewerage tariffs to equitably meet thie cost of supply.
6.1    Water supply and sewerage planning, construction and operations in Bombay posed
daunting challenges to those who planned and implemented the investment program. At the
outset there was a huge backlog of unmet demand because of underinvestment. Population and
economic growth accelerated in the following decades and the proportion of the poor increased
as did the slums which they occupied. Additionally there was much optimism but limited
experience in the design and implementation of the massive program necessary to meet the needs
of the population.
6.2    The intended impacts of the program, to improve the health of the population and their
access to water supply, sewerage and sanitation services, have not been realized. The program's
potential impacts were adversely affected by external factors such as the global inflation of the
1 970s, as well as policy and institutional difficulties at the state and local levels. Shortcomings
include that the purveyed water is not safe to drink; water service, especially to the poor, is
difficult to access and is provided at inconvenient hours of the day; industrial water needs are not
fully met; sanitary facilities are too few in number and often unusable because of inappropriate
design and poor operation; and urban drains, creeks and coastal waters are polluted with sanitary,
household and industrial wastes.
6.3    Nonetheless, the investments delivered substantial economic, social and environmental
benefits. Despite population and industrial growth they enabled marginal improvements to the
very unsatisfactory conditions which prevailed at the onset of the program. Without the program
conditions would be catastrophic. Water supply availability and access to water service and
sanitary sewers increased while street-level pollution declined. Importantly, an autonomous
utility was formed and its staff exposed to valuable experience in utility planning, design,
construction and operations. But institutional improvements will be required at the municipal
and department levels to ensure that the benefits of the program are sustained.
6.4    The Bank played a role in helping to define and finance the strategic approach which
sought to balance investments in critical infrastructure with institutional capacity building. But
the Bank's support could have been better at critical junctures such as when the sewerage
components of BWSSP-I1 were undergoing redefinition. It also could have pressed for a more
equitable tariff structure and a sustained rehabilitation agenda at WSSD.
6.5    The impact evaluation confirms the ratings stated for BWSSP-I and BWSSP-II in earlier
evaluations (paras. 1.16-1.1 7). For BWSSP-III, current findings support the ratings shown in the
latest supervision reports (para. 1.18). Because of weaknesses in WSSD's cost recovery policies



42
and its perfornance in the operation and rehabilitation of the water system, the sustainability of
program benefits is rated as uncertain.
6.6    The findings were discussed at the workshop and a near-term action plan was developed.
These actions, endorsed by MCGB in a letter to OED, dated May 17, 1996 (see Attachment), are:
* focus water supply operations and investments on rehabilitation (as opposed to new
capital facilities), with emphasis on leak reduction, meter installation and
maintenance, and the rehabilitation of secondary networks and connections;
*   undertake and evaluate a pilot program in three wards to access the contribution that
loss reduction and changes in consumption patterns can make toward extending the
supply of piped water to 20-24 hours per day;
*   redesign new latrine components and retrofit existing ones to ensure good
maintenance with the help of piped water and sewerage and the involvement of the
users and the private sector; and
*   restructure water and sewerage tariffs so they reflect the full cost of supply, with
subsidies limited to facilitate access and provide basic needs to the lowest income
population.
6.7    While there is a need for further investments in water supply and sewerage in the long
run, the immediate needs would be effectively addressed by the actions described above and in
Chapter 5. These actions would help to address the concerns of WSSD's consumers, greatly
improve the level and quality of service, and enhance the image of WSSD.
20. Although the communication refers to '20 to 24 hour" supply, this study does not consider anything less than 24-hour supply to
be satisfactory.



43                                Annex A
Project Details
India: First Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project, Cr. 390
Total Project Cost: US$ 158.2 million equivalent
Cr. 390: US$ 55.0 million equivalent
Approval: 15 May 1973 Agreement: 22 Jan. 1974 Effectiveness: 13 Mar. 1974 Closing: 30
Jun. 1981
Goals and Objectives
Water Supply
The project aimed to improve the quality of supply and the efficiency of the distribution system
by fully utilizing the available sources of supply and maximizing the hours of supply to the
consumers (SAR, para. 5.03).
Sewerage
The project aimed to rehabilitate and expand the sewerage system to handle the growing effluent
tlc,ws (SAR, para. 5.05).



Annex A                                 44
Components
Planned (SAR)                               Actual (PCR, PAR)
Watez Supply (cost: US$111 million)         Water Supply (cost: US$208 million)
*   weir and headworks on the Bhatsai River  *   weir and headworks constructed
*   pumping scheme from the Bhatsai River to    *   pumping facilities completed
Bhandup and Panjarapur
*   22 cu.m.isec. treatment plant at Bhandup for  *   Bhandup and Panjarapur treatment plants
all water entering MCGB's distribution      constructed, all water now treated
system
*   storage reservoirs; 5.3 cu.m./sec. Treatment  *   storage reservoirs built
plant at Panjarapur
*   primary distributiun system improvements    *   reduction or deferment of certain
*   minor works and equipment                   equipment installation
Sewerage (cost: US$47 million)              Sewerage (cost: US$42 million)
*  urgent works for uprating and improving 9    *   reduction of the length of sewers and
existing pumping stations, and construction of    sewage pumping mains from 130 km. to
7 new sewage pumping stations               59 km
*   uprating of Ghatkopar and Dadar treatment   *   improved one instead of 9 existing
plants                                      pumping stations
*   10 km pumping mains, 107 km trunk sewers; *   improvements to existing sewage
12 km branch sewers (130 km. total)        treatment works were omitted
*   feasibility studies and preliminary designs for
further treatment and outfalls
*   maintenance equipment
Institutional Development                      InsHtutional Development
Strengthening BMC's water supply and sewerage  *   exceeded expectations
organization and improvement of related technical *   high operation and maintenance
and financial operations through technical     standards, excellent training policies and
assistance and training                        programs, billing and collection systems
improved
*   but asset revaluation is long overdue



45                                 Annex A
Intervention Model
Water Supply
BWSSP-I water supply elements were selected from the Development Program as being the most
suitable to bring the maximum immediate benefits (SAR, pam. 5.03).
Sewerage
The sewerage elements were chosen to: (a) rehabilitate the existing system as rapidly as possible;
(b) commence sewering unsewered suburbs; and (c) form new Bombay Municipal Corporation
(BMC) engineering design and supervision teams to expedite the second phase of the program from
1975. The need to maintain a balanced annual investment program through 1981, with the urgent
water project elements to be executed by 1977/78 meant that the sewerage program would
commence more slowly and peak in the second phase of the Development Program (SAR, para.
5.05).
Outcomes
Water Supply
The objectives were realized. The increase in bulk water supply of 30%, as planned, and the
provision, for the first time, of treatment for all water fbr Bombay were impressive. The delay of
about three years in completing the project, and the cost overrun of about 60%/o, postponed and
reduced the potential benefits. BMC was unable to gain on the expected availability of water on a
per capita basis and to increase the hours of service, due to the delay and continued population
increase to 37%. (PAR, pg. iv, and PCR, pg. 48). A second project (BWSS It) was planned to
inter alia finance items deferred from BWSSP-I.
Sewerage
The objective was not achieved due to the scope reduction in 1976. The project has added some S0
km of sewers to the existing system and some 50% of the BMC area is now served. Because of the
cost overrun, less water bome sewage is collected, and none of the collected wastewater is treated
(PCR, p. 48).
Institutional Development
The Water and Sewerage Department developed into a sound institution with good management
and staff. (PAR, para. 24).



Annex A                                 46
India: Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project, Cr. 842
Total Project Cost: US$ 411.6 million equivalent
Cr. 842: US$ 196.0 million equivalent
Approval: 25 Jul. 1978 Agreement. 13 Nov. 1978 Effectiveness: 12 Jun. 1979 Closing: 31
Mar. 1988
Objectives and Goals
Water Supply and Sewerage
To complete MCGB's works program scheduled for implementation during the period 1977-
1981, and to complete works originally scheduled under BWSSP-1 (SAR, para. 4.02).



47                                Annex A
Components
Planned                                                     Actual
Water Supply (US$114.5 million)
^   Supplementary (450 mld) river water pumping capacity at  Completed
Pise Weir
*   A 450 mld water filtration plant at Panjrapur, adjacent to  Completed
existing pre-treatment facilities
*   Construction of a 120 million liter balancing reservoir and  Completed in 1990
some 35 km of 2.2 meter diameter trans!aission mains,  (34 km of transmission
including a 3 meter diameter tunnel 2.75 km long       main)
*   Additional pumps and associated mains at Bhandup to supply  Completed
the Malad and Borivli areas
*   Distribution of existing transmission mains to restore capacity  Completed in 1990
of the existing system
*   10,000 public taps in slum areas                        Detailed data not available
*   Leakage detection equipment, meters, vehicles, workshops,    Equipment, vehicles, etc.
store, miscellaneous equipmenit, plant operator's quarters and   procured; facilities
access roads to facilities                             constructed
Sewerage (US$94 million)
*   Sewage collection and conveyance systems in 5 zones     Sewage collector network
including ncw pumping stations, renovation of existing  completed as planned, but
pumping stations, construction of force mains, trunk and  none of the major pumping
branch selwers, as well as some 7 km of large diameter sewers  stations or the treatment/
in the Mahim drainage zone to convey sewage to Bandra  disposal facilities were
outfall                                                completed by the time of
*   Renovation of an existing 42 mld sewage treatment plant at   the audit (PAR, p. vi).
Colaba
*   Preliminary sewage treatment and disposal via two 800 mld    Two major pumping
submarine outfalls, one at Worli and one at Bandra     stations not finished
*   Sewage treatment in aerated effluent at Versova, Malad,  Not completed
Chembur and Bhandup, with capacities 131, 280, 386 and 196
mid, respectively
*   15,000 new latrines in slum areas                       12,000 latrines completed
Other costs: US$203.1 million for stores, vehicles, engineering
services, contingencies, and training.



Annex A                                 48
Intervention Model
Water Supply
Prior to the project, the average availability of water was about 125 liters per capita per
day, which was much less than the average demand under the existing pricing structure, and the
supply was consequently limited to between 2-8 hours per day depending on location (SAR,
para. 1. 15). Without the project, BMC could not have maintained the water supply service even
at its existing level; with it, all sections of the community, including the urban poor, may have
access to reasonably safe water, and industry can continue to function even though the quantity
of water is less than would be considered adequate under most circumstances (SAR, para. 6.01).
Sewerage
Prior to the project, the effectiveness of the existing system was limited by its inadequate
capacity as well as the age and the obsolescence of some of its components (SAR, para. 1. 18).
The systems for collection, conveyance and disposal of human wastes and industrial wastes
would be improved, thereby reducing health hazards to a fraction of their present level;
environmental pollution would be limited to acceptable levels (SAR, para. 6.01).
Institutional
The project would increase the capacity of the WSSD of BMC, provide additional
training for technical staff and administrative personnel and foster the practices and concepts of
sound engineering, cost recovery and efficiency in pricing in the public sector (SAR, para. 6.01).
Outcomes
The project proved to be highly complex and difficult, and had mixed results (PAR, p. 10)
Water Supply
Most of the water supply components were completed successfully albeit with
significant delays, largely due to material shortages, strikes and land acquisition problems. The
completed components show good quality construction and efficient operations (PAR, p. vi).
However, after the credit was closed, there were six substantial works still incomplete (PAR, p.
7).
Sewerage
Most of the sewerage facilities were incomplete. Poor construction workmanship was
the norm, the two main submarine outfalls were partially constructed, which were to discharge
60% of Bombay's sewage into the Bay of Bombay, were laid one year after the original closing
date of the credit, and were eventually abandoned by contractors. These had to be redesigned
due to serious design flaws. In the absence of the sea outfall disposal system and the delay in the
construction of the aerated lagoons, the completed collector system discharges raw sewage at
various points into inland waterways and the sea, creating unacceptable environmental pollution
and health hazards and essentially negating the projected health benefits of the project (PAR, p
vii).



49                               Annex A
India: Third Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project, Ln. 2769 / Cr. 1750
Total Project Cost: US$ 304.3 million equivalent
Ln. 2769: US$40.0 million
Cr. 1750: US$145.0 million equivalent
Approval: 16 Dec. 1986 Agreement: 12 May 1987 Effectiveness: 29 Jan. 1988 Closing: 30
Jun. 1996
Goals and Objectives
As part of a continuing program to improve further MCGB's implementation and
operational performance, to expand the water and sewerage facilities for the city of Bombay, and
to keep pace with increasing demand from population growth and expansion of industrial and
commercial activities, the objectives of the project were to:
*   Continue and expand on the efforts of previous projects in improving sector efficiency
through improvements in project management, procurement, billing and collection, and leak
detection and repair in the WSSD;
-   Expand water supply and sanitation facilities for the urban poor by providing: (i) the water
delivery capability in support of the Bombay Urban Development Project, which will be
benefiting some one million people classified as urban poor; (ii) suction tanks and pumping
arrangements for slum colonies on high ground; (iii) tubewells and extensions of mains to
other slum areas; and (iv) improved sanitation facilities in fringe areas of the city;
*   Increase the supply of water to the BMC area by 455 mld to a total of 2,930 mld, compared
to an anticipated demand of some 3,568 mld in 1991. After allowing for commercial,
industrial and other uses and losses, this would increase the average per capita availability to
137 lcd for the 11 million population projected for 1991;
*   Expand the sewerage conveyance facilities in isolated developed areas of the city which are
not already served; and
*   Evaluate operating experience and develop appropriate design criteria and technical options
for future investment in sewage treatment in Bombay and other parts of India (SAR, para.
3.01).
Components (Planned)
w ater Supply
a. Distribution System (US$171.2 million):
*  construction of 52 km of trunk mains, diameter range 600 mm to 3000 mm;
*  construction of 49 km of distribution mains, diameter range 150 mm to 1800 mm;
*  construction of 9 km of 3000 mm diameter transmission tunnels;
*  lining 76 km of pipeline with cement mortar, diameter range 1200 mm to 3000 mm;
and
*  provision of leak detection, system instrumentation and control equipment, valves
and about 32,000 water meters.



Annex A                                  50
b. Treatment Capacity, Pumping and Storage (US$75.0 million)
* construction of a 455 mld capacity water treatment plant, together with staff quarters
for operators;
* building and installation of pumping capacity of 2,233 mld in 17 units; and
* construction of about 144 million liters of clear water storage in four service
reservoirs.
Sewerage and Sanitation
c.     Sewer and Pumping (US$38.5 million)
* construction of about 54 km of sewers, diameter range 230 mm to 1000 mm; and
* building and installation of equipment pumping capacity of 150 mid in 12 units
d.     Sanitation (US$6.6 million)
* provision of low-cost on-site waste disposal facilities in selected areas of Bombay
not covered by water-borne sewerage; and
* provision of suction tanks, local pumping arrangements, tubewells and minor mains
to service the urban poor in slums.
Technical Assistance and Vehicles for Operationis
e.     Training (US$3.5 million)
* Training for BMC/WSSD staff in system maintenance and operations at facilities in
Bombay and abroad, including development and expansion of course curricula at
BMC's existing training center.
f.     Consultancy (US$8.0 million)
Appointment of consultants to:
- improve WSSD's project planning and implementation capacity; to enhance the
water and sewerage billing and collection; to strengthen financial audit procedures;
and to enliance financial analysis operations;
* help implement the project and prepare preliminary designs for the next tranche of
source development (Vaitama) to meet future water supply needs; and
* review and develop design parameters in wastewater disposal systems, based on
stabilization pond technology (Versova), examine the possibilities for recycling
washwater at the potable water treatment plants and to reduce distribution system
water losses by the application of improved techniques.
g.    Vehicles for Operations (US$1.5 million)
*   Supply of 83 trucks, four wheel drive vehicles, buses and other vehicles for project
implementation and operations.
Intervention Model
A high priority of BMC is to increase the water supply production capability to
progressively extend the hours of water service availability throughout the system. A major
component in this project addresses this issue by the provision of a further 455 mld of fully
treated water from the Bhatsai source, so that by the time the project is complete the shortfall
will have been reduced to about 18% of the projected demand. Other components are designed



51                               Annex A
to improve service levels and availability leading ultimately to the provision of a continuously
pressurized distribution system delivering safe hygienic water at all times (SAR, para. 6.02).
Bombay's wastewater collection and disposal system which is being implemented under
the ongoing BWSSP-II nas been designed and built progressively for a planning horizon in the
year 2005. The additional water supplies will therefore not adversely contribute to Bombay's
wastewater disposal problems to any appreciable extent. Minor extensions to the sewer
conveyance system are included in the proposed project to serve in newly developed areas.
Wastewater treatment processes will also be further reviewed to decide future investment options
and determine the most cost effective technologies for pollution control (SAR, para. 6.03).
The rationale for continued Bank support to the BMC/WSSD investment program rests
on the contribution that the Bank can make to the achievement of key sector objectives,
particularly in the areas of improved operational performance and project implementation
capability. Bank involvement during project preparation has helped to give more emphasis to
the following specific project objectives:
*  improved detection and repair of leaks and waste reduction through the introduction
of new technologies;
*  improved water revenue collection efficiency through improved customer records
and associated management reporting;
*  strengthened project planning and control, using network based management
systems for more timely and lower cost implementation of project components;
-  improved procurement performance through prequalification of contractors and
suppliers for all major contracts;
- follow-up and assessment of the operational performance of alternative sewage
disposal systems (lagoons and sea outfalls) with a view to establishing appropriate
design parameters for use in future investments in Bombay and elsewhere in the
region; and
expansion of sector training programs focusing on operations and maintenance and
construction management ensuring that all major engineering components were
analyzed for cost effectiveness and designed in sufficient detail (SAR, para. 3.02-
3.03).



Annex A                                52
India: Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project, Cr. 0899
Total Project Cost: US$ 100 million equivalent
Cr. 0899: US$ 48 million equivalent
Approval: I May 1979 Agreement: 21 Jun. 1979 Effectiveness: 9 Nov. 1979 Closing: 30 Jun.
1985
Goals and Objectives
The objectives of the project were to:
* provide satisfactory water and sewerage services to 2.4 million people (estimated 1991
population) in the communities concemed, including essential services for the poor;
* improve public health in urban and rural areas by making available adequate quantities of
wholesome water, at tariffs within the public's ability to pay, and by the collection and safe
disposal of sewage;
* improve the ability of authorities to implement, operate and maintain water and sewerage
works and to achieve financial and economic viability; and
* provide an environment conducive to the development of industry, the creation ofjobs and
better conditions for the employed (SAR, para. 3.06).



53                               Annex A
Components
Planned (SAR) (Cost: US$ 100 - 155.8      Actual (PCR, PAR) (Cost US$ 188.4 million)
million)
Water Supply (Cost: Rs. 314 million)     Substantial changes were made in the project
Augmentation of the existing water supply  components in view of reorientation due to the
facilities in the six towns and the provision of  increased 1991 population in rural areas from
new or expansion of existing water supply  0.77 million to I million.
systems in 104 villages. The works were to    (Water Supply Cost: Rs. 832 million)
include a new river intake and treatment plant,  (Sewerage Cost: Rs. 361 million)
transmission mains, storage reservoirs and  (Other Cost: Rs. 427 million)
pumping stations, distribution networks and  1. Addition of a bridge across Waldhuni River
reservoirs, house connections and public  2. Construction of new conventional water
standpipes. This would total available in the   treatment plant at Badlapur in lieu of uprating
project areas to 390 mld.                 flows of existing plant
Sewerage (Cost: Rs. 186 million)          3. Changes in design of some work
Sewerage collection and disposal services were  components for optimal use
to be expended in three towns and         4. Provision of additional number of reservoirs
comprehensive new services were to be     in the rural area
provided in another three. A total of 26,000    5. Construction of conventional sewage
property connections were to be constructed.   treatment plant at Bhiwandi in place of
Other (Cost: Rs. 360 million)            Oxidation Ponds
Provision of workshops, meter testing    (According to the PCR, the physical
facilities, vehicles, tools, and bulk meters.  components were still ongoing.)
Technical assistance was to provide for
engineering design, training, operation,
maintenance, financial services and project
administration.



Annex A                                  54
Intervention Model
The project would relieve hardship caused by the inadequacy of water supplies and
sewerage facilities and would improve the health of people in the project area; it would also
coptimize the use of some of the existing water resources and associated works. Benefits of the
project include the development of the newly formed Maharashtra Water and Sewerage Board
and fulfillment of one of Bombay's Metropolitan Region Development Authority (BMRDA)
functions to coordinate and monitor a regional development program in a major sector (SAR,
para. 3.07).
Outcomes
The rapid urbanization occurred and vertical expansion was observed in place of
horizontal in many parts of the project areas, leading to much higher population densities. In the
view of rapid urbanization the level of services (water supply and sewerage) as provided the
project is difficult to achieve. However, the project is expected to provide broadly an absolute
increase of 250 mld (160%) in water supplies. Moreover, filtered water supply would be made
available for the first time in Bhiwandi and replace similar unfiltered supply from BMC to
Thane. The project is also expected to provide equitable distribution of water at improved
pressure.
House owners are now required to connect their properties to sewers. The project
provided for about 22,500 (3,500 completed by project completion) connections between road-
side chambers and manholes on the streets, so that house-owners could connect their latrines to
the road-side chambers.
MWSSB has further grown into a strong institution possessing capable managers and
other staff. The new staff for the finance and accounts wing is expected to gain experience and
further improve the performance of the wing. The revenue realization for sale of water has
increased but indicates arrears on a large scale.
In the Southern area full exploitation of the MWSSB's existing Badlapur Water Works
as well as Shahad/Barvi Water Works of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation
(MIDC) was contemplated. The project provides for bulk sale of water to the local bodies of
Thane, Bhiwandi, Dombivli and Kalyan and retail water supply in Ulhasnagar and Ambarnath.
In the project area, though a difficult task, MWSSB has adopted a commercial approach
for fixing water tariff for Board water works duly taking into account the prescribed rate of
return. It also continues to pressure local authorities in the project area to adopt a similar
approach while fixing the water tariff.
Except Bhiwandi, all towns in the project area have metered water supply. In Bhiwandi
only new connections are metered. But 12.5% of the meters were found to be out of order.
Water leak-detection work was done in Ulhasnagar, Ambarnath and Bhiwandi. As there
is a lack of adequate and effective leakage-measuring devises in Ulhasnagar and other
constraints, the success has been limited. However, MWSSB continues to make concentrated
efforts to detect and check leakage, in the distribution system.



55                               Annex A
India: Bombay Urban Development Project, Cr. 1544
Total Project Cost: US$ 256.7 million equivalent
Cr. 1534: US$ 138 million equivalent
Approval: 29 Jan. 1985 Agreement: I Mar. 1985 Effectiveness: 22 Aug. 1985 Closing: 30
Sept. 1994
Objectives and Goals
*   To make a large increase in the public supply of affordable land, infrastructure and shelter,
particularly for low income families and small businesses;
*   To substantially improve local government financial and administrative capacity to deliver
and maintain services, particularly the infrastructure created under this project;
*   To strengthen the Government's institutional capacity to plan, coordinate, implement, and
evaluate the objectives, programs and policies of Affordable Low Income Shelter Program
(ALIS), and replicate the achievements;
-   Through more efficient and equitable land use planning and pricing policies and more
appropriate performance-oriented design standards, development control, and building
regulations to aim at improved public sector cost recovery and a major reduction in the
public and private costs of shelter investment; and
e   To direct a larger proportion of private investment in land servicing and shelter construction
into low cost units for low-income families.
Components (Planned)
*   Land Infrastructure Servicing Program (Cost: US$ 120.9 million): About 85,000 serviced
residential, commercial and small industrial plots, including community facilities, core
housing, and house expansion loans, on 13 sites in 5 Bombay Metropolitan Region (BMR)
sub-regions, benefiting 500,000 people;
*   Slum Upgrading Program (Cost: US$ 34.0 million): Upgrading of about 300 ha of slum
areas, mostly in the Bombay Municipal Corporation, including provision of tenure,
improved infrastructure services, home improvement loans and community facilities,
benefiting 500,000 people;
*   Local Government Finance Administration and Services (Cost: US$ 18.4 million):
Equipment and civil works for improving the maintenance of roads, drains and services, and
collection and disposal of refuse, in the Bombay Municipal Corporation, Thana Municipal
Corporation, Kalyan Municipal Corporation and New Bombay Municipal Corporation,
directly benefiting over one million people.
*   Technical Assistance, Training and Equipment (Cost: US$ 1.5 million): Improving the
capacity of project implementing and coordinating agencies.
Intervention Model
The project-based interventions were intended to generate the following benefits:
* support for an unprecedented three-fold increase in the annual supply of affordable, BMR,
shelter units, particularly for low-income families, and thereby reduce by 1990 the number



Annex A                                  56
of households in illegal and/or environmentally unsound shelter from 1-1.2 million to 0.7-1.0
million;
*  substantial improvement of local government financial and administrative capacity to deliver
and maintain services, particularly for low-income families and small businesses in the
jurisdictions of the new municipal corporations, Thana Municipal Corporation (TMC),
Kalyan Municipal Corporation (KMC), and New Bombay Municipal Corporation (NBMC);
* strengthened state and local government institutions for planning, coordinating and
evaluating projects, programs and policies and for replicating the achievements, particularly
in the heretofore neglected and problem-plagued land development and shelter sector;
*  demonstration that more efficient and equitable land use planning and pricing policies and
more appropriate design standards, incorporated in the Development Control and Building
Regulations (DCBR), can result in full public sector shelter cost recovery, a major reduction
in the public and private costs of shelter investment and significant investment of private
capital in low-cost, low-income housing; and
*  direction of a larger proportion of public and private investment in land servicing and shelter
construction into low-cost units for low-income families, while still providing large numbers
of plots for higher income housing, community facilities, commercial and small industry use
(SAR, para. 6.01).



57                               Annex A
India: Bombay Sewage Disposal Project, Ln. 3923 / Cr. 2763
Total project cost: US$295.6 million
Ln. 3923: US$167.0 million equivalent
Cr. 2763: US$ 25.0 million equivalent
Approval: 6 Jul. 1995 Agreement: 28 Dec. 1995 Effectiveness: March 22, 1996 Closing: 31
Dec. 2002
Goals and Objectives
The physical objectives are ..." to complete the facilities (originally proposed and
partially completed under the First, Second, and Third Water Suppiy and Sewerage Projects) and
provide for the improved safety of the disposal of sewage from Greater Bombay, to complete
these in substantial accordance with realistic timetables, and with a good construction quality"
(SAR, para. 3.06).
The institutional objectives are:
*   strengthening the capacity of MCGB's WSSD in all aspects of the management of the
provision of sewerage services including planning, design, construction supervision,
including materials and construction quality management, operation and maintenance;
*   sustaining the financial viability of the provision of water supply and sewerage services in
Greater Bombay through direct charges to beneficiaries at appropriate levels;
*   improving the health and environmental conditions in Greater Bombay through the
construction of sewerage works improvements so designed and constructed as to
conveniently and economically permit a further level of such improvements in the future;
and
* improving the health and environmental conditions for a significant portion of the slum
dwellers of Bombay through the construction of sustainable sanitation improvement
facilities, mainly for safe excreta disposal, of a kind and nature determined in consultation
with the prospective beneficiaries (SAR, para. 3.07).
Components (planned)
Physical Works (US$191.7 million plus contingencies):
*   Worli and Bandra marine outfalls
*   Bandra pumping station
*   Ghatkopar and Bhandup lagoons
* Ghatkopar influent tunnel
*   sanitation program for the slums (164 slum sites, approximately I million people served)
*   structural features to improve the stability of five existing sewage pumping stations; and
*   conveyance system improvements
Technical Services (US$15.2 million plus contingencies):
* Engineering supervision
* Studies - upgrade O&M
* Conveyance system condition survey



Annex A                                 58
* Slum sanitation - consultant and NGO services
Preparation of Future Investments (US$16.9 million plus contingencies):
* Feasibility Study, Malad and Versova areas
* Feasibility Study, Bhandup and Ghatkopar areas
* Feasibility Study, Worli and Bandra areas
* Detailed Design, all six areas
Intervention Model
The CAS of May 19, 1995 emphasized the need to build the institutional and financial
framework that will enable cities to provide critically needed services to a rapidly growing
population (SAR, para. 1.42). The potential health and environmental benefits of improving the
disposal of more than 60% of the sewage from the Greater Bombay area are considered
substantial even though they are not readily quantifiable - particularly in economic terns. The
provision of sewage treatment and disposal facilities under this project will enable the very
extensive collection and conveyance systems, which have been constructed under BWSSP-II and
BWSSP-III to be effectively utilized (SAR, pg. v).



59                                 Annex B
Selected Operational Indicators: Bombay and Other Urban Areas
Table 1: Water Consumption Per Capita
Quantity
City                         Year        (lcd)
U.K. (average)                1990        136
Ankara, Turkey                1991        130
Algeria (average)             1990        146
Brazil (average)              1989       151
Bogota, Columbia              1992        167
Santiago, Chile               1990        148
Bombay: 1/                    1986
Average                               180
Apartment > 100 sq. m.                306
Apartment < 100 sq. m.                220
Chawl                               110-146
Slum                                   90
1/Norms when no rationing is in effect. Per 1986 data in BWSSP III SAR para. 2.07.
Table 2: Composition of Demand
(Percent of Water to Distribution System)
Commercial
City                           Year    Domestic   and Industrial  Other
Bombay                         1986
(For metered connections)            69, l/          21          10
Bogota, Columbia                         79,             16           5
Algeria (average)                        71,            20            9
Macao                                    43             51            7
1/ Combined house connection and standpipe.
Table 3: Tariff Structure - Ratio of User Rate to Average Rate
User
Domestic            Commercial             Industrial
Bombay  1/                    0.16               1.05-3.15             1.05-3.15
San Jose, Costa Rica          0.76                  1.79                  1.82
Bogota, Columbia              0.86                  1.63                  1.51
Bursa, Turkey                 0.86                  1.32                  1.32
1/ Per 1986 data in BWSSP III SAR, para. 5.15.



Annex B                                   60
Table 4: Unaccounted-for Water (UFW)
City                  Year   Percent UFW   1/
Bangkok, Thailand     1990          33
Brazil (average)      1989          39
Bogota, Columbia      1991          40
Santiago, Chile       1990          29
Togo                  1990          22
Bombay                1986          22     2/
1/ Percentage of water which is delivered to the distribution system.
2/ Distribution system is pressurized only a small part of a 24-hour day.
Table 5: Life of Water Meters
City                Year           Life
(years)
Macao               1991           15
Singapore           1991             7
(J.S A. (average)   1984           17
Bombay              1986             1.8
-Lable 6: Personnel (number of staff per 1000)
City           Year      Water Connections    People Served
Bursa, Turkey        1992             4.6                 0.9
Brazil (average)     1989             6.5                 0.8
Santiago, Chile      1990             2.1                 2.5
Togo                 1990             22.4                0.5
Bombay               1991             96.0               n.d.
n.d.: No data available.
Table 7: Bombay: Water Consumption Pattern
Quantity Taken       Revenue Generated          Revenue Generated
(% of Total)          (% of Total)          (% of Metered Supply)
Metered Supply             59                      80                        100
Industrial              11           71 (including commercial)            56
Commercial               1                                                 4
Domestic                41                     24                         20
Other                    6                      5                         20
Unmetered Supply            22                    20
En-route Supply              4                      0
Losses                      15                      0
Total                      100                    100
Source: BWSSP III SAR (1986) Table 5.3 and Annex 15, Tables A and C.



61                                Annex B
Table 8: Bombay: Water Consumption and Revenues
(For connections which are metered)
Consumer Category      Quantity Taken       Revenue Generated
(%)          _(%)
Industrial                 19                    56
Commercial                 2                      4
Domestic                   69                    20
Other                      10                    20
Source: Constructed from data in Table 7.
Table 9: Selected Indicators on Coverage
1984                      1994
Coverage with house connections          46%                       62%
Standpipe use                            37%                       37%
Access to 24 hour water supply           36%                       22%
Use of Wells                             9%                         1%
Table 10: WSSD Staff Productivity
Indicators                Units                     1975  1980  1985  1990  1995
Quantity of water pumped   mld pumping staff                2.7  11.9  17.6   15.3
Quantity of water treated    mld/treatment staff                  7.2    7.6   15.3
Quantity of water produced  mld/production staff    0.31   0.25  0.31   0.33   0.32
Valve operations         valves/valve operating staff       1.0   0.9    0.9    0.8
Metering operations      meters/staff                             341    439    537
Major repairs            pipe bursts/staff                        2.0    2.6    2.3



Annex B
62
Table 11: Tariffs and Cost of Water
Lower Bound    Upper Bound
Of             Of
Non-Domestic   Non-Domestic
Households       Users          Users
Tariffs and Costs in 1972
Cost of Production                   0.20          0.20            0.20
Tariff                               0.25          0.50            0.80
Tariffs and Costs in 1995
Cost of Production                   2.45          2.45            2.45
Tariff                               0.60          6.00           35.00
Percent of Cost Recovered By Tariff  24%          245%            1429%
Notes:
1. Costs are expressed in Rupees per cubic meter.
2. Cost of production includes employee costs, utility services, depreciation, repairs
and maintenance, interest and equity payments, administrative expenses,
apportioned general expenses, and exchange rate losses incurred by the GOI.
3. The 1995 cost of production (Rs 2.45) is detailed as follows:
Water Supply                           1.41
Sewage                                0.59
Storm Water and Other                 0.30
GOI Exchange Rate Losses               0.15



63                                Annex C
Socio-Economic Survey: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Access to Water by Ward, percent
Colaba
HC        SP       Wel' Only       Tanker       Other a/      Total b/
Before   67.6     22.0          1.0            2.0          11.1         103.7
After   75.6      16.0         0.5            2.0           6.1          100.2
Mahim
HC       SP        Well Only       Tanker       Other a/      Total b/
Before   42.8     28.0          14.3           2.3          32.1         119.5
After   59.3      44.5         0.5            0.3           6.1          110.7
Kurla
HC       SP        Well Only       Tanker       Other a/      Total b/
Before   37.6      56.0         0.8            0.0          17.8         112.2
After   46.1      47.5         0.0            0.3           16.6         110.5
Malad
HC       SP        Well Only       Tanker       Other a/      Total b/
Before   37.3      44.3         18.5           1.5          26.6         128.2
After   66.8      41.8         4.3            0.0           9.9          122.8
a/ Other includes collecting free water from the neighbor, community water tap and well, and no
water supply bought from neighborhood.
b/ The totals amount to more than 100% because some respondents have multiple water sources.
Note: HC - house connection
SP - standpipe
Table 2: Water Supply Hours per Day, Before and After Project
Colaba           Kurla           Mahim            Malad
Before-Project           8+               8+              2-3              4-6
Project objectives       8+               8+              3-4              5-8
Actual hours of
water supply             3-4              6.5              3                4
Table 3: Number of Days Water Stored in Household, percent
None           One             Tivo         Three
Non-slum         8             60              25             7
Slum             8             63              22             7
HC               10            60              23             7
SP               7             62              24             7
Average          8             61              24             7



Annex C                                   64
Table 4: Storage Facilities, in percent
Overhead/Underground   Storage tank in   Large containers    Total b/
tank in building        house              a/
HC                     33                  54                62              149
SP                      5                  51                92              148
Total                  19                  52                77              148
a/ Containers are usually 42 gl plastic or steel containers.
b/ The total exceeds 100 percent because of multiple responses to questions.
Table 5: Payment by Domestic Consumers for Water,
Before and After Project, percent
After         Before
Don't Pay               30             47
Rs. 1- 10               14             14
Rs.10-30                30             25
More than Rs. 30        26             14
Table 6: Toilet Facilities by Slum and Non-Slum Categories, Before and After Project,
percent
Slum                          Non-Slum
Before          After           Before           After
Toilet                       56              71              93              97
Toilet with Open Drain       21              10               4                1
No Toilet                    23              16               3               2
Pay and Use                   0               3               0               0



65                                 Annex C
Table 7: Children, Women and Men with No Toilet Facilities in Slum Areas, Before
and After Project, percent
Children                 Women                      Men
Before       After       Before       After       Before       After
Colaba          70           67          64           25           71          55
Kurla           27           23           12           2           12           4
Mahim           66           20          54            4           56           7
Malad           63           50          51           26          51           31



i
I
I



67                          ATTACHMENT
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
,Ku cop'             .xAunicipal Head Office,
L C. GANDHI                     e'  Jb                     Extension Building, 3rd floor.
D c m                      Mahapalika Marg, Fort,
Dy. Municipal Comnissioner n                                   Bombay-400 001.
(Eniering)*       o  '
o(%   Jt --  . .n ,        Telephone s 2620970 (Direct i
2620251
Ext. 295.
grRe
q9r-%G1Z 149T-TaTfI/TPr
.ffl D. M. C. E
To~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Mr. Yves Albuoy
Chief,
Operations Fva luali  oi O1 Divi sion,
The World Rank,
1818 H Street, NW,
V;e.i0ngton, DC, 20433,
11. S. A.
Siihzjel  *  otnbay impact Evaluation.
Wa,lor ';)jpply and Sewerage Sector
Workshop on.
Dear Mr. Albuoy,
Kindly  accept our sineere thanriks  for  organising
the Workshop o-)n the flombay Impact Evaluation - Wal or Supply
and  Sewerage Sector.  Please convey our thanks also to  Mr.
C.Godavitarne and Mr. Tej Phool who joined you in organising
the Workshop.
I  attach  a  summary shoot  whi ci  shows  a  fair
summary of the  :onclusions drawn at i1he Workshop.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(.1C. Gandhi



68
ATTACHMENT
1. Focus water supply operations and investments on
Leak detection, meters installation and maintenance,
and rehabilitation of secondary network and connections.
2.  Evaluate a pilot of above programe in 3 or more sample
Wards to assess the contribution that loss reduction and
changes in consumption patterns can make towards extending
the supply of piped water to 20-24 hours per day.
3. Expand the coverage of sewerage and individual sanitation
and the capacity for effluent treatment and disposal far
into the ocean.
4. Redesign new latrine components and retrofit         existing
ones to ensure good maintenance with the help of connection
to piped water and sewerage and involvement of users and
private sector.
5. Restructure Water and Sewerage tariffs so that they
reflect the full cost of supply, and that    subidies
are limited to facilitate access and consumption for
basic needs by the lowest income population









iRED 28090
INDIA
] -4 -          tt \& FIRST BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SEWAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM
khone  Creek                 5        -                                           &
- -    TRUNK SEWERS
-   W_AV,i~9XW   .... .........                                                                                                                                                             ..       .. ............................ X , ,T. _  ,  0  0    NEW OR UPRLTED URNG SNGSTArIOS
"s'                                                                                                                                                                         0               0   x>riv X wsfu ! u / ><wars 9 .  , o o SEWAG E TREATIRENT WORKS
I    S      + j - -,_--} SEWAGE REATRMENr wORES EENOe
0              ~~~~HEADWORKS
~ /                              hA                                                                                                             SJRS^ARINES PIES
-    ~~~TAI,,l                                                                                                                                -     AIN ROADS
-.---RAILROADS
NEW DRAINRAGE ZONE BOUNDARIES
Dr ' -- - L@Le .>|                                                                                      ' '_n0-I  _  GREATER OMRAY WUNICIPAL UIT
5     NATIONAL PARK           M
' 4 7                       -    /    _. --  -S--  -  P          .  - S
,__.'9_- ^ l#O1                                                                                                  SANTAIre
COLONY                     'AIRPORT                                                    HRO
--                                                          A RA B  AO\ SE                                                                o4    2                  3       IM
-~~~~~.  -,  ,..i      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAH    
_ ~ ~ ~     ~         ~          ~         ~          ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ '~ .                                                                                                                                          JUNE
0A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  K ~~~~~~~~SUBMPARIN
PIPE NEII
!T=                                                                  PIPE ~~~~~~~~~~iPOINT
--.------..---------  ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      , -0    I   2    5      K,6w.,
ARABIAN  SEA                                                                          I 
Note (June 1996): Plans shown above are as appraised in 1973. The Credit was closed June 1981  The Project Audit Report of October, 1985 states that the project was redefined in 1975 with the following changes:
Sewer lengths were reduced from 130 to 50 kilometers only one of the planned nine pumping stations was rebuilt, and planned improvements to the existing sewage treatment works were dropped.






I_RD 28089
~~/h Dy lowosUs S ., \ I _ t- - - , \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDIA
_.-- ---  -^                          - V   <FIRST BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
/  .,e  --- -   \\.                        WATER DISTRIBUTION
INSE1 uswT l ~'~"  SY*Ci  Nit               ^' \ _;             Creek        -   --  
-- .....  MOM PIELNES _ M
3      23 TRATE  WORKS
SEE           LAABANSE
lI --R_OADS1l   j 3  A
RAJUOADS~~~~*199






IBRD 28088
o .ommoonAR on  onr R.I.d                                                                                                                                              I N D I A
 Ai^nt nioos \ , \2 S                                                                                                                                    ECOND BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
0* AtIER,OISA'Otoym~Xqi ST,sm                                                                                                   5EWAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM
EISTING SEWERED AREAS POE OJ Y I P.EOJCT
SETEDE AREAS UNDER R   I S =  II PROJECT
SEFRED AREASUNDER REUROAR *B* RIPEOCT C
y   /                               \\     /s      *   s  \zff  ;m.S. _   \\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIRMD-IE1WE.ID. MAY[IOE
S7 / T  {PED1 ARE0S IAROEOUNR BONAY OPR.O&IT
/a                                                                                                        Y-,----I-----.- o'  \E  2 /  |  *   3   j  *     *  IRAILWAYS
-     E A RAIRAGE ZONE rAOU...ARES
-GREATER "MIBY MUNICIPAL LIMIT
-.- ITENAT.0NAL SWSSA..ES
IPEB   1b)I  SS-BAYIORK   BOMBAY    MRA UT. RA ESS
ft C O L O N   /                                AS |N CJIA OUT
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                        .
~~~~~-  _                   .1/ _WAR tEltS
AERATED
I                                                            WA SA UBMAEAE                    OEL 55 ASIE
A A R E I  MILK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                         
W.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
JUNE lOLO
Note (June 1996): Plans shown above are as appraised in 1978. The Credit was closed March 1988. The Project Audit Report of December 1990 states that the construction and
equipping of 20 sewage pumping stations were incomplete and that much of the work was at a standstill. The Mahim and Worli submarine pipes were not completed (although
Worli is partially in use) and are now financed under the Bombay Sewerage Disposal Project (See Map IBRD 26628R).






IBRD 26628R
INDIA
BHANDUP                                                                          BOMBAY SEWAGE DISPOSAL PROJECT
-~ 4..{                    S~  -~                            5os 5                                                    u1M5  TREATMENT AMNT    DISPOSWAFACILMTiES
E       _ _ a           _ _                                           I     \    BHA>2 u            **   _ ~   -.         GHATKOPAR                  2                                                      EWAlE, O*AL5 E RbOM
Gae-  i,~~~~~~~ES X | *#iz6\ 6 s ~~~~~~~~~A'                                                    LGCN_+<Gt   UMERCCNnUCTIQN
-      PLANNED W.0H11 D NEXT 510 YEARS
.41                               -Ai                                                                    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SMAGE CONVEYAN*E SYSTE.
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA6!AN SE
OER  ONTNIO
TA,                                                                        %                            LR4D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ERE CONSMCO
-- - DRARIAGE flIT BGEfIUNEM1S
40' ~ ~      ~       ~      -
N                      WOR~~~~~~~LI"
NATKNAL Ap.SJr  A* O rFAL OLAA'S
.7  k%~~~~~~~~                                                 BAND&A                     -- *,J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OVE  - -  O~~~~~~~~tmAr z         4u  CRe
- ~~~~~~~~~~                     TEJNNE~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~AI O
CRAUZ     N     SEALR                                                                          2       2       4M
AW.VM                                                   GREAM   90~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y MUNCR~~~~~~~~~ LWffJNEID






IBRD 18974
'_    \    qX  ;S\  * zz \ <==< 1 N D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vppl V. --
/    \B g=,//  itis    ~ </1                                            *+   ,{84; r % v j a -                    y/)    THIRD BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
.\ tv / y >. > '>s R~~~~~EGIONAL WATER RESOURCES AND BMC TREATMENT AND TRANSMISSION
r'T                                          t<-                                          SFACILITIES
kr\                                                                                              ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING    BOMBAY' IBOMBAY III
PROJECT     PROJECT
*    -     6|/   ;_0 Reservoirs
-          U           U      Treatm,et WuhAs ond PumPng Stotions
*            ~~Treotiven Vkrks and Pumping Stat-ion
Expansion
main Pipeline
2                                                                                                                              Vi.]  Loon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m  servd by Sanvi Pro1ect (MIOCI
\Z \one  erved by Tran-Thana Water Supply Scheme(MIDC)
Agra Raa4  a,d                                                                      C                                  .~~~~~~r[~ j Zone sered by Shhlod Woter Supply Schseme GOMI
,r                              I>::VLIZ]   on .e served by Rano Water Supply Scheme IMIDC)
~~ ji*~~~~~%  JN.t      ~~E:                                  BMC  Supply Area
_hais  Irrgatin Command Area, Stage I
LIZ]  MIOC Industrial Area
CIDCO Arna
_Rsr              Pl_nd for Fuiure Dooelsp.ne,,t
C% ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* Existing Reservoirs and Dams
pi. __________                       /                                                                                                    . _ _        Roads
Rclmays
-  -  r-Liit of Greater Bombay
L--Lmt of Bombay Metropolian Region
-       -Irernatiunal Boundaiss
BOMBAVMebrs 
I  s'  N    D  IA
*Ma .  tqti ~v\fi'
.... AS.I XYA I'
Station1  i.\         ,           '4.uAaxnxxi
R.5..r,
AUGUST t985









I AGING
Report No:       15349 IN
Type: IER



