1RCU1ATlNG COPY                                -    _          C-
T   -BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK                    .
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
wulL E COP
Report No. 88a-IN
APPRAISAL OF
BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INDIA
April 30, 1973
Asia Projects Department
Public Utilities Division
[ This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be publsned, quotedl
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the 
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Curency Unit              Rupee (Rs.)
US$1.00              =    Rs. 7.65 /1
Ps. 1.00             =    US$0.13
Rs. 1 lakh (105)    =    US$13,071
Rs. 1 crore (107)   =    US$1.3 million
;fEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter              (mm)       =    0.04 inches                       (in)
1 meter                   (m)        =    3.28 feet                         (ft)
1 kilometer               (kn)      =    0.62 miles                         (mi)
1 square meter            (m2)      =   10.8 square feet                    (sq ft)
1 hectare                 (ha)       =   10,000 square meters or
2.47 acres                        (ac)
1 square kilometer        (kpn2)     =    0.386 square miles                (sq mi)
1 lite'r                  (1)             0.26 US gallons                   (gal)
1 liter per capita per
day)                   (1/cd)    =    0.26 US gallons per capita
per day                         (gcd)
1 cubic meter             (m3)      =   35.3 cubic feet                     (cu ft)
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)  =   31.5 million cubic meters
per year or
22.8 million US gallons per day  (mgd)
or 35.4 cubic feet per second (cusecs)
or 86.4 million litres per day
1 million litres per day (mid)       =    0.01 cubic meters per second    (m3/sec)
ABBREVIATIONTS XND ACRONYTMS
GOI            Government of India
GOM       =    State Government of Maiarashtra
BMC       =    Bombay Municipal Corporation
TIDC      =    Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation
CIDCO     =    City and Industrial Development
Corporation of Maharashtra, Ltd.
PHED      =    Public Health Engineering Department
(of State Governments in India)
TERB      =    Water Resources Board
BMR       =    Bombay Metropolitan Region
MRPB      =    Bombay Metropolitan Region Planning Board
DT!rCSE   =    Deputy Municipal Commissioner (Special Engineering)
UN-SF     =    United Nations Special Fund
U,DP      =    United Nations Development Program
0         =    Diameter (of pipes)
BMfLC Act   =    Bombay Mfunicipal Corporation Act, 1888
BPMC(A) Act=    Bombay M-funicipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 1973
WSSD      =    Water Supply and Sewerage Department of BNC
FIS CAL YF.AR
April 1 - March 31
/1   India has not declared a new par value following the devaluation of the
US dollar. The rupee is officially valued at a fixed pound sterling
rate and as the pound sterling is now floating relative to the US dollar,
the US dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.  In the week
ending April 7, 1973 immediately prior to publication of this report
the rate fluctuated betw-.een Rs. 7.49 and 7.58 rupees to the US dollar.



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF TIIE
BOM1BAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEW4ERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ...............................  i -  i
I.    r.TRODUCTIOIN .....................           .....................
II.    TIIE SECTOR ............................................    2
A.   National Organization and Sectbr Development    .....    2
B.   Maharashtra State                 .      ........... .            3
C.   Bombay Iletropolitan Region (BMR)  ....            .............    3
III.    GREATER BOIIBAY AND ITS PRESENT WATER SUPPLY
SEWERAGE AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES  ....            .........    4
A.    Background    .......................................            4
B.   Water Supply ......         .......................               4
C.   Sewerage and Sewage Disposal ................. O...               5
IV.   THE PROJECT ........           ...................................       6
A.    Description ......................................                6
B.    Cost Estimates ...................................    8
C.   Amount of Proposed Credit ........................    9
D.   Design, Construction and Supervision
of Construction ................................    9
E.    Procurement ......................................   10
F.    Disbursement .....................................   10
G.    Bulk Water Purchases by BMC ......................   10
V.   JUSTIFICATIqN AND STRATEGY .............................  11
A.    Development Program and Project Objectives  ... ....   11
B.   Population and Demand Projections  ................   12
C.    Return on Investment ......           .......................    12
D.    Least Cost Solution .......           .......................   13
VI.    TIIE PROJECT ENTITY .........          ...........................   13
A.    Organization and Management ...................           ...   13
B.    Operations, Management and Training ....             ..........   14
C.    Audit .............................................   15
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission consisting of
Messrs. J. Krombach, M. M4ould and A. Bruestle who visited Bombay in
June/July 1971 and of updating mission to Bombay by Messrs. J. Krombach,
M. Mould and L. Rasmusson in November 1972.



-2-
Page No.
VII.   FINANCE ..............    16
A.   Existing Budgetary and Accounting Systems .16
B.   Proposed Budgetary and Accounting System .16
C.   Past Performance and Present Position of Water
Supply and Sewerage Services .17
D. Financing Plan .18
E.   Water Supply and Sewerage Charges .20
F. Future Finances .20
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .21
ANNEXES
1.   Water Resources of Greater Bombay and the Bombay Metropolitan Region
2.   Existing Water Supply System of Greater Bombay
3.   Existing Sewerage, Sewage Treatment and Disposal Systems of
Greater Bornbay
4.   Developpent Program 1972-1981 and First Project - 1972-1978
5.   Project Cost Estimates
6.   Disbursement Schedule
7.   Population and Demand Projections
8.   Organization Chart of New Department
9.   Balance Sheets of Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC) Showing
Relationship of Water Supply and Sewerage Services
10.   BMC Water Supply and Sewerage Tariffs
11.   Notes on Financial Projections
12.  BIMC Water Supply and Sewerage Department - Income Statements
13.   BMC Water Supply and Sewerage Department - Sources and Application
of Funds
14.   BMC Water Supply and Sewerage Department - Balance Sheets
MAPS
10146     Bombay regional water resources and BMC transmission and
trunk distribution systems
10191     Bombay-Hours of water supply 1972
10147     BMI water distribution syster
10192     BMC sewage collection and disposal system



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a project to increase water
supplies and to rehabilitate and commence expansion of existing sewerage
systems in Greater Bombay for which an IDA credit of US$55.0 million equiv-
alent is proposed. The project forms the first major stage of a US$358
million equivalent, 10-year 1972-81 development program for water supply
and sewerage in Greater Bombay.
ii.       The Government of India (GOI) would be the borrower of the proposed
credit, which would be onlent to Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC) through
the State Government of Maharashtra (GOM). GOM would ensure that BMC is
given access to adequate additional funds for execution of the project.
iii.      The objectives of the 1972-81 development program are to improve
living conditions for over 6 million people in Greater Bombay, by providing
by 1981 at least 7-8 hours water supply per day for the entire population
(presently less than 5 hours' supply for 60% of the population) and expand
sewage collection, treatment and disposal systems for Greater Bombay. The
project objectives are to relieve the present serious water shortage by
taking supplies from new sources being developed by GOM; treat all water
supplies; effect major changes in water distribution, leak detection and
waste prevention systems; rehabilitate and commence expansion of the seawer-
age system; and develop a new water supply and sewerage department (WSSD)
within BMC.
iv.       The project is estimated to cost US$158 million equivalent, of
which US$111 million equivalent is for water supply and US$47 million equiv-
alent for sewerage works. The water supply component comprises construction
of a water intake, treatment and pumping system from Bhatsai River, a major
treatment plant for all water entering BMC distribution system, 12 reservoirs,
and major modification of the distribution system. An extensive leak
detection and waste prevention program will also be undertaken. The sewer-
age component includes urgent works for uprating and improving existing
pumping stations, and construction of new sewage pumping stations, trunk amd
branch sewer extensions, which are necessary to mitigate the insanitary
conditions prevailing in many parts of the city. The project will commence
in 1973 and finish in 1978. It will overlap with ongoing water and sewerage
works and with a second phase to be commenced from 1975 onwards.
v.        The project constitutes a major step, long overdue, towards remedy-
ing the water supply and sewerage problems of Greater Bombay, which have
led to serious economic disruption and personal hardship for the citizens.
Unless the situation is improved, the development of Bombay, and through it,
of western India, would greatly suffer.



- ii -
vi.       Foreign  and local consultants have assisted BMC staff in prepara-
tion of the development program and the project, and will continue assist-
ing in final design and construction supervision. Specialist assistance
for project planning and control, instrumentation, accounting and manage-
ment, and reporting and control systems will be provided by 10cal consult-
ants.
vii.      Equipment and material contracts worth about US$42.9 million
equivalent will be financed under the credit. Of these, about US$7.6 mil-
lion equivalent will not be subject to international competitive bidding
by reason of high transportation cost for pipes, equipment standardization
and equipment having small dimensions, ratings and values. Consulting
fees and training costs, together with contingency allowances, will make
up the remainder of the credit. Civil works contracts will not be subject
to international competitive bidding and will not be financed under the
credit.,
viii.     The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$55.0 million
equivalent. The credit will cover 35% of project costs comprising the
estimated foreign exchange component of US$48.6 million equivalent and local
costs of US$6.4 million equivalent. The balance will be financed from
internal cash generation of WSSD, a grant of US$8.4 million equivalent from
GOM, and bond issues raised by BMC.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested an IDA credit of
US$55 million to help finance a project to augment and improve the water
supplies and distribution system and to rehabilitate and expand the sewerage
systems of Greater Bombay. The project, estimated to cost US$158 million,
forms part of a 10-year (1972-1981) development program for water supply,
sewerage and sewage disposal to be executed by the Municipal Corporation of
Greater Bombay (BMC). The works included in the project will be constructed
from 1973 through 1978 and are designed (a) to double the hours of water
supply in Bombay to 8 hours per day by 1977 (14 m3/sec to 24 m Isec) by
introducing supplies from two dual-purpose dams being constructed by the
State Government of Maharashtra (GOM), and through major changes in the water
distribution system, including an intensive program of leak itection and
waste prevention; and (b) to rehabilitate the existing sewerage system mainly
through reconstruction or uprating of pumping stations and treatment works and
to extend the system to the unsewered suburbs.
1.02      This project has evolved from a request made by GOI to IDA in
1964 to assist GOM in financing the Upper Vaitarna and Bhatsai dams. Sub-
sequently GOM withdrew the request and decided to construct these dams
from their own resources.  However, IDA's association with these projects
continued. Consultants were appointed by GOI and BMC in 1970 to prepare
the 1972-1981 BMC Development Program including components to utilize the
Upper Vaitarna and Bhatsai supplies. The feasibility report was first
presented in 1971, with a supplementary report added in May 1972. This
1972-1981 Development Program provisionally estimated to cost US$547 million
is the first major attempt to improve water supply and sewerage services
of Greater Bombay which have seriously deteriorated in the past 30 years,
during which time population has increased from 1.8 million to 6 million.
1.03      BMC have established a water supply and sewerage department (WSSD)
to take over the multi-departmental organization which operated these services.
Since October 1971, major organizational and management changes have been
implemented and have brought the existing systems and design and construction
of new works under unified control.
1.04      The development program was prepared by J?C with the assistance of
the British consultants, Messrs. Binnie and Partners (India) Ltd. and 1fessrs.
Coopers and Lybrand. Funds were made available for the feasibility studies
in the program by the British Overseas Development Administration. Part of
the program is also based on a water resources study by Messrs. Binnie and
Partners for GOM dated September 1968.  Appraisal of the project was
carried out by a mission composed of 1'essrs. J. Krombach, hri. Mould and
A. Bruestle wiho visited Bombay in June/July 1972, followed by updating
missions of 'essrs. Krombach, M,Iould and L. Rasmusson in November 1972.



-2-
II. THE SECTOR
A.   National Organization and Sector Development
2.01      GOI estimates that in India's 570,000 towns and villages, there
are 21,000 water supply systems providing 104 million people (19% of
population) with piped water supply or access to safe water. Approximately
450 million continue to use unsafe water sources, and a greater number are
not served by sanitary sewerage or sewage disposal systems.
2.02      State Governments have primary responsibility for sector develop-
ment. Since 1951 the States have been trying to effect improvements and
meet the rapidly increasing demand caused by population expansion. Competing
demands for resources by other sectors, lack of advanced planning, shortage
of key materials and equipment have resulted in only 1-2% of public expend-
itures being invested in the sector. The current Development Plan for India
through 1973/74 proposes investments of Rs 400 crores (US$521 million) while
OI estimates the outstanding requirements at 1971 prices to be Rs 7,000
crores (US$9 billion) to provide minimum safe water supply and sanitary
facilities for the entire present population.
2.03      GOl, through five-year plans and special programs, effects national
planning of sector development. Funds are normally allocated by GOI for urban
and rural water supply projects in the form of 30% grants, and 70% loans bear-
ing an interest rate of about 5%, which States supplement by borrowing from
banks and the Life Insurance Corporation.
2.04      The States execute their responsibilities through various depart-
ments or agencies, of which the most common are the Public Health Engineering
Departments (PHED) which recommend and implement development policies,
and execute planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of water
supply and sewerage systems. PHED's may delegate part of their duties,
usually operation and maintenance, to municipal authorities, but BMC and a few
large municipal corporations or agencies, by legislation, are responsible for
development, operation and maintenance of these services in their juris-
dictions. Some States have departments responsible for surface and ground-
water development, for pollution control and community development, through
which they institute or control water supply and drainage programs.
2.05      Foreign assistance in the sector has been minimal compared to
its requirements. Numerous bilateral and international organizations have
provided GOI with studies and advice over the past 20 years. UNICEF is con-
tinuing to finance or supply equipment for small water supply schemes, mainly
in arid or drought-prone areas, while UNDP has financed the Calcutta water
supply and sewerage study and three groundwater studies, and currently proposes
to finance drilling rigs, technical assistance and fellowships.



-3-
B.   Maharashtra State
2.06      Maharashtra is the third largest state in India in area and
population. Its area of 306,000 km2 is more than 10 percent of the area
of the Indian Union, and its population represents 9.2% of India's total
population. Bombay is the state capital and the largest industrial center.
2.07      At present, piped water supply serving 14 million people is
provided to Bombay, Poona, Nagpur and Sholapur municipal corporations, and
to 134 smaller towns of the State. GOM is designing piped water supply
systems for the remaining 33 towns. The vast majority of the rural pop-
ulation has no safe water supplies. Of 35,850 villages with a population
of 34.6 million, only 640 villages with a population of 0.7 million had piped
water supply in 1971, the remainder relying primarily on shallow wells.
2.08      Only the four municipal corporations (para 2.07) have sewerage sys-
tems, but these do not service their entire areas and populations. Waste
waters from inhabited areas and industrial wastes are usually disposed of
directly to surface water or on land. GOM has enacted a Prevention of Water
Pollution Act, 1969, the first of its type in India, and has established a
Prevention of Pollution Board, which has yet to become effective.
C.   Bombay Metropolitan Region (BMR)
2.09      Bl4R is a physical planning unit which since 1965, has been used
as the basis for a study by the Bombay Metropolitan Regional Planning Board.
It includes Greater Bombay together with the rest of Salsette Island and
large areas to the north and east on the mainland; generally, it covers the
area between the Arabian sea and the Western Ghats' mountains, extending
from north to south between the Tansa and Patalganga rivers. (See Annex 1,
and Map 10146).
2.10      If industrial stagnation, deteriorating public health and
serious risk of population evacuation in times of drought are to be avoided,
planned and controlled water resources development in BMR are essential.
The water supply sector is also under pressure from other development plan-
ning by GOM or its agencies, in particular the Maharashtra Industrial Development
Corporation (MIDC) and the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO).
From 1892 all BMC's supplies have been drawn from the mainland and are likely
to so continue. Since 1962, MIDC's plans for industrial development in BMR
have resulted in forecast demands far higher than the yield of local water
abstraction schemes and NIDC has had to construct the Ransai and Barve dams.
CIDCO is planning the Bombay "twin-city" with a 1991 forecast population of
2 million in the Trans-Thana region across the harbor from Bombay, and is
undertaking water source studies outside its area, in addition to considering
taking supplies from MIDC sources. Various public and local authorities have
developed or are seeking water resources in the region. Provisional forecasts
indicate demand will exceed existing and projected source supplies by 1991
(see Annex 1).
2.11      GOM is responsible for water resources development, and although
a number of authorities are cooperating closely, GOM has no overriding body



-4-
to coordinate activities. Uncontrolled development of a scarce commodity
is taking place, and it would be unrealistic to plan BMC's future water
source development without regard to the demands of BMR. Binnie and Partners'
1968 report to GOM recommended a water resources authority for the Bombay
region, which would be larger than B14R, and comprise the catchments of at
least twelve rivers as defined in Annex 1. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that an appropriate authority will be established by April 1,
1975.
III. GREATER BOMBAY AND ITS PRESENT WATER SUPPLY,
SEIWERAGE AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES
A.   Background
3.01      Bombay (Map 10146) is located on the west coast of India, approxi-
mately on the 19° N parallel of latitude and is the second largest city in
India (1971 census - 5.9 million), the largest port and industrial center
of the country. It was formed originally on seven islands, now linked by
land reclamation and landfill, including part of Salsette Island to the north.
1951 and 1958 boundary changes extended the original Bombay City limits to
embrace "the Suburbs" and the "extended Suburbs" which now contain 50% of
the population. This enlarged area of 440 km2 is known as Greater Bombay,
and is the area administrated by BMC.
3.02      Since 1888, BMC has been responsible for municipal services, and
until 1941, investment kept pace with demand for water supply and sewerage.
Since then, a population increase from 1.8 million to 6 million combined
with limited capital availability has resulted in water supply falling to
5 hours and under daily for 60% of the population, and a sewerage system,
which serves only the city center and a small section of the suburbs.
B.   Water Supply
3.03      The existing water supply systems of Greater Bombay are described
in Annex 2, and illustrated in Maps 10146 and 10147. BMIC owns the small
Vehar and Tulsi reservoirs within municipal limits and Tansa and Vaitarna
reservoirs on the mainland. GOM supplies mainland water to BMC from (i)
the Ulhas river and (ii) the Upper Vaitarna source which is currently being
commissioned. The combined BMC and GOM sources will provide a total nominal
yield of 18.4 m3/sec to BMC by 1974, for an estimated population of 6.5 mil-
lion. In 1941, BMC sources supplied 5.7 m3/sec to meet the demands of its
1.8 million population; by 1961 it supplied only 11.1 m3/sec to 4.5 million;
and currently supplies 14 m3/sec to over 6 million. In 1966, monsoon failure
and resultant drought caused many industries to close and population evacua-
tion was seriously considered. In 1972, the monsoon again failed over part
of Maharashtra, leaving BMC some 10-15% less water than forecast for 1972/73.
Refugees from the State's worst drought-hit areas have increased demand on
this reduced supply.



-5-
3.04      Mainland water is conveyed to Bombay by a gravity system of trunk
lines up to 77 km long, sized from 600 mm to 3,000 mm diameter. All water
supplies are chlorinated, but only 6% receives full treatment. Water dis-
tributed through service reservoirs is rechlorinated, but quality varies,
depending on previous treatment, pressures and distance from reservoirs.
The complex water distribution system cannot effect equitable distribution
of the limited supplies, some distribution zones are supplied direct from
trunk mains, some by service reservoirs, others by a combination of both.
Considerable manpower is required to constantly operate the large number of
valves necessary to regulate the intermittent supply to the various zones.
Hours of supply and the population served during 1972 are shown in Map 10191.
3.05      Consumers' connections in the densely populated City are 100,000
(20% metered) and 44,000 (95% metered) in the suburbs. There were 2,750
communal taps and standpipes as at March 31, 1971. One connection can serve
2-3 persons or over 1,000. Approximately 43% of supplies are not metered.
Losses and wastage were estimated by the consultants at 16% of 1972 restricted
supplies, but could be much higher under a 24-hour supply condition.
C.   Sewerage and Sewage Disposal
3.06      The existing sewerage and sewage disposal systems are shown in Annex
3 and Map 10192. The original drainage system, commenced in 1850 and com-
pleted in 1905, provided separate sewage collection and surface water systems.
The city area is fully sewered with the exception of low-lying areas where
septic tanks are provided. Large areas of the suburbs are unsewered, and
there are no satisfactory alternative facilities.
3.07      In areas which are sewered, systems are overloaded, because the
installed capacity of pumping and ejector stations is insufficient to deal
with the average dry weather flow. To alleviate surcharging, sewers have
been cross-connected to storm drains, so that during monsoon the surface
water completely blocks the sewers and forces mixed sewage and storm water
flows onto the streets. Sewage is conveyed to eight treatment works of
insufficient capacity, by gravity or pumping; effluents from the works and
raw sewage which has by-passed the works, are discharged into the sea through
adjacent creeks or storm water drains.
3.08      In the unsewered areas the only facilities for sewage collection
and disposal are either septic tanks (used in conjunction with flush toilets
or aqua privies) or basket privies. BMC is responsible for collection and
disposal of septic tank wastes, nightsoil and other refuse, known as the
halalkhore service, the costs of which are recovered by halalkhore tax (para
7.06). Ground conditions in the area are unsuitable for seepage pits or
disposal trenches causing effluent to collect in low-lying areas. The BMC
tank emptying service is inadequate; the available resources are used in
efforts to relieve the more objectionable instances of local flooding, but
elsewhere tanks are allowed to fill up and overflow. The contents of septic
tanks and basket privies are dumped into the nearest tidal creek or into
suction wells of the sewage pumping stations. Night soil is frequently tipped



-6-
over bridges into the nearest watercouree and industrial wastes are in many
instances discharged directly into open streams or channels.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      In 1971, BM4C consultants submitted a feasibility report for the
1972-81 development program for water supply, sewerage, sewage treatment
and disposal estimated to cost US$547 million. The report contained three
alternative schemes - A, B and C, from which BMC and GOI have adopted Scheme
C (US$358 million), which is the minimum program for water supply and sewerage
recommended by the consultants through 1981. Scheme C recognizes that there
will be insufficient water sources to meet demand through 1981, and concentrates
on doubling the hours of supply, treating all water, and better distribution
of available supplies through 1981; and rehabilitation and extension of
sewerage systems (see Annex 4).
4.02      The first phase of Scheme C forms the basis for the project, which
commences in 1973 and will be completed in t978. Design and construction
schedules for the key component, the Bhandup treatment complex, determines
the long construction period. Ongoing works in the program due for 1973-75
completion are excluded from the project. A second phase, which may be sub-
divided into two or more projects, is scheduled to commence in 1975, and is
also excluded.
A.   Description
4.03      The principal elements of the Project are detailed in Annex 4 and
summarized below:
(i)  Water Supplies:
(a)  Headworks - construction of the Bhatsai river
extraction scheme, and repair of existing dams;
(b)  Trunk Mains - about 16 km of 2,235 mm to 2,750 mm
diameter transmission mains, 30 km of reservoir inlet
mains, a 5 m diameter tunnel and a control valve complex;
(c)  Treatment - construction of the 22 m3/sec Bhandup
treatment plant and pumping station, and 5.3 m3/sec
Panjrapur sedimentation tanks;
(d)  Storage and Primary Distribution System - construction
of 245,000 mJ capacity master balancing reservoir,
manufacture and laying 124 km of mains; construction of
11 new service reservoirs of 4,500 m3 to 68,000 m
capacities;



- 7 -
(e)  Secondary Distribution System - construction of 150 km
of new mains to complete rezoning of the system;
(f) Instrumentation and Control - supply and erection of
equipment for Bhandup control center, including telemetry
and radio control;
(g) Minor Works and Equipment - access roads, staff quarters,
vehicles, leak detection equipment, and water meters.
(ii) Sewerage and Sewage Treatment:
(a) Construction of 7 pumping stations, reconstruction of
9 pumping stations; and supply and erection of equipment
for these stations;
(b) uprating Ghatkopar treatment plant and extension of
Dadar treatment works;
(c) supply and laying of 10 km of pumping mains, 107 km
of trunk sewers and 12 km of branch sewers;
(d) technical and economic/financial feasibility studies
and preliminary designs for sewage treatment and
sewage outfalls for second phase; and
(e) provision of sewer maintenance equipment, foreign spares,
aerial survey and vehicles.
The engineering design and construction supervision of (i) and (ii) above
will be carried out by local and foreign consultants and BMIC staff. The
project also includ,es local management consultants' services to assist WSSD
in project planning and control, accounting and financial control, and develop-
ment of management information systems; together with training programs for
technical and administrative personnel (see para 6.08).



B.   Cost Estimates
4.04      Estimated project costs are summarized below; detailed cost
estimates are provided in Annex 5.
----Rs crores ---   ----US$ million---  % of Total
Item            Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Project Cost
Water Supply
Civil Works              21.9    6.8    28.7   28.5   8.8    37.3         23
Equipment                15.3   13.0    28.3   19.8  17.0    36.8         23
Land, depots              5.3    0.4      5.7    6.9   0.5       7.4       5
Subtotal             42.5   20.2    62.7   55.2  26.3    81.5          51
Sewerage
Civil Works              9.3    2.9    12.2   12.1   3.8    15.9          10
Equipment                 3.8    3.3      7.1    4.9   4.3      9.2        6
Land, depots             5.5    0.2       5.7    7.2   0.2      7.4        5
Subtotal             18.6    6.4    25.0   24.2   8.3    32.5          21
Engineering l               5.6    2.8      8.4    7.3   3.6    10.9         6
Management Consulting
Expenses and Training   0.3    0.3        0.6    0.4   0.4      0.8        1
Contingencies
Physical                 8.5    3.9    12.4   11.0   5.1    16.1          10
Price                     8.8    3.8    12.6   11.5   4.9    16.4         11
Total Project Cost  84.3   37.4   121.7  109.6  48.6   158.2          100
Summary
Water Supply            58.2   27.4    85.6   75.7  35.6   111.3          70
Sewerage                26.1   10.0    36.1   33.9  13.0    46.9          30
84.3   37.4   121.7  109.6  48.6   158.2        100
/1 Includes Rs 2.6 crores (US$3.4 million equivalent) for Second-bhas-e-
4.05      Civil works costs are based on BMC and consultants' estimates
using preliminary designs for headworks, transmission, treatment and pumping
and detailed designs for distribution and some sewerage works. Equipment
and materials costs are at 1972 prices, compiled by the consultants from
international and local prices for similar items. The cost estimates
include 5% compound per annum price contingency over the period 1972/73 to
1977/78 (see Annex 11, para 25). The physical contingencies which average
15% in a range of 10% to 30%, are appropriate for this form of project.
The work will include considerable remedial work, complex treatment and
pumping systems, and tunnelling, which have yet to be fully studied and
designed.



- 9 -
4.06      The foreign exchange component has been based on the estimated
value of direct imports, the foreign exchange component of locally procured
goods, costs of imported materials and equipment used in civil works, and
foreign costs of consultants' services and training. Import duties and
handling charges are included in the estimates as local costs.
C.   Amount of Proposed Credit
4.07      An IDA Credit of US$55.0 million, equal to 35% of the project cost
of US$158 million equivalent is proposed. The credit will finance the
estimated foreign exchange component of US$48.6 million equivalent and local
cost of US$6.4 million equivalent (about 6% of the local costs of the project).
It is proposed that IDA should reimburse the expenditure after December 1,
1972 for consultants and advance purchases of materials and equipment,
particularly steel for which forward ordering is essential. The total retro-
active financing involved would not exceed US$3.0 million.
4.08      The proceeds of the credit will be included in the GOI IVth and Vth
Five-Year Plan allocations to GOM (para 2.03). During negotiations, GOI
confirmed that it will on-lend the proceeds to B1JC for 25 years, including
4 years period of grace, at 6.25% per annum.
D.   Design, Construction and Supervision of Construction
4e09      WSSD, under the charge of the Deputy Municipal Commissioner (Special
Engineering) (DMCSE) will have overall responsibility for project design and
construction. BM1C has engaged Binnie & Partners assisted by Tata Engineers
for design and construction supervision of the Pise and Panjrapur pumping
stations and sedimentation tanks, transmission mains, the control valve com-
plex, and the Bhandup treatment complex. Tata Engineers have been engaged
for the planning and control of project development, including management
information systems, which will be necessary to ensure full cooperation and
accurate timing between all concerned with this complex project. BMC has a
design staff capable of completing the remaining design and construction
supervision for water supply. To cope with the work load and tight program
schedule, BMC will probably find it necessary to supplement their sewerage
design and supervision teams with additional consultants.
4.10      In view of the type and large size of the treatment plant, BMC,
assisted by their consultants will carry out further field and pilot plant
tests on water treatment during the 1973 monsoon period. The final designs
will be based on the results of these studies. This arrangement is satis-
factory.
4.11      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, if GOI and
GOM authorize BMC to proceed with the complete development program (para
4.01) including sewage treatment and disposal, and to use the funds which
have been included in the proposed credit for consulting services, con-
sultants acceptable to IDA will be retained by BMC for (a) site and marine
investigations, detailed design and preparation of bidding documents, and



- 10 -
(b) for a further and more detailed review of the proposed methods of treat-
ment and disposal, and of the economic and financial justification of the
selected system.
E.   Proculrement
4.12      BMC will be responsible for all procurement, except steel plate
(for pipes) and steel billets (for reinforcing rods), which will be procured
through international competitive bidding on behalf of BMC by a GOI-appointed
canalizing (purchasing) agency. BMC proposes to use their foreign consultants
,o initially assist in preparation of documents for international bidding
for equipment and materials.
4.13      76% of the value of principal equipment and material components of
Lhe project would be subject to international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines, and 16%,which would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding, would be procured locally. The remaining
8% would be reserved by (OI for local procurement and will not-be financed
under the credit. It is proposed that domestic manufacturers would be given
a preferential margin equal to 15% of the c.i.f. costs of the competing
imports or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. Civil works contracts
will not be subject to international competitive bidding and will not be
financed under the credit.
F.   Disbursement
4.14      The estimated disbursement schedule in Annex 6 shows that the
credit would be disbursed through five fiscal years - FYs 74-78. The
disbursements would be against 100% of the c.i.f. costs or the ex-factory
costs of equipment and materials, the local fabrication cost of steel pipes,
and the costs of consulting services and training programs.
G.  Bulk Water Purchases by BMC
4.15      In 1967, BMC commissioned an emergency supply (1.1 m3/sec), using
abstractions from the Ulhas river, for which annual royalties are paid to
GM¶. In 1965 and 1968 GOM commenced building the Upper Vaitarna and Bhatsai
dual-purpose dams respectively, to provide BMC with a further.11.5 m3/sec.
The first Upper Vaitarna dam releases commenced in 1972 and the remainder of
BMTC>s (;.2 m3/sec allocation should become available after the 1973 monsoon.
The Bhatsai dam water releases should commence in 1976 reaching the full
5.3 m3/sec by 1978, when BMC will be taking 53%) of its total supplies from GOMI.
4.16      Agreements have not been completed between GOM and BMC for supply
regulation and payment 1/ for Upper Vaitarna and Bhatsai bulk water. To
ensure adequacy and consistency of bulk supplies, together with fair price
settlements, assurances were obtained from BMC at negotiations that IDA will
be given the opportunity to review and comment upon all draft agreements for
1/   See Annex 11, paras 11-13, and 15.



- 1 1 -
bulk water supplies to be purchased by BMC, whether for existing or new
supplies.
V.   JUSTIFICATION AND STRATEGY
A.   Development Program and Project Objectives
5.01      Bombay's population of over 6 million is estimated to rise by at
least 30% by 1981, and unless urgent measures are taken to improve water
supplies and sanitary systems, living conditions will be intolerable. The
principal objective of the 1972-81 program is to improve living conditions
by (i) alleviating the existing water shortage and increasing the present
3-5 hours of intermittent supplies to 7-8 hours supply daily; and (ii)
mitigating the present dangerous and offensive sanitary conditions, by pro-
viding an effective sewerage and sewage disposal system. To attain this
objective it is necessary to develop a dynamic water supply and sewerage
department which will be capable of implementing this program, and of
continuously planning and providing for long-term requirements for water
supply and sewerage of Greater Bombay.
5.02      Reports commissioned by BMC refer to the inadequate water supply
an(d sewerage systems as major factors in intensifying public health problems.
The incidence of enteric diseases and typhoid is increasing; these are the
second highest diagnosed cause of death in Bombay, and formed about 12% of
total deaths by principal diseases and also of infant mortality in 1970/71.
5.03      The water project elements were selected from the Development
Program as being the most suitable to bring the maximum immediate benefits.
Unlike BMC's objectives in recent years which have been to add increments
of sources of water supply without corresponding improvements and extensions
to the old distribution system, this project aims at improving the quality
of supply and the efficiency of the distribution system by fully utilizing
the available sources of supply and maximizing the hours of supply to the
consumers. The extensions and improvements to the distribution system should
be sufficient to meet forecast demands through 1991 in the existing developed
areas.
5.04      Lack of sources, an inefficient distribution system, high leakage
and wastage, and virtually no treatment result in the restricted supply of
low quality water. Upper Vaitarna and Bhatsai sources (para 4.16) will add
10 m3/sec to available supply by 1978, and with existing supplies, should
satisfy 78% of estimated demand by that year, provided the distribution
system has been remodelled, and leakage and wastage have been significantly
reduced. Mfaintenance of satisfactory water quality by the proposed treatment
processes should reduce the present public health hazards, and minimize
damage to the system and fittings.
5.05      The sewerage project elements were chosen to (i) rehabilitate the
existing system as rapidly as possible; (ii) commence sewering unsewered
suburbs; and (iii) form new BMC engineering design and supervision teams



- 12 -
to expedite the second phase of the program from 1975. Although hours of
water supply are restricted, sewage flows are almost constant and currently
I million m3 of water and industrial effluents have to be removed daily.
This volume will almost double by 1978, making it essential that the sewerage
system is rehabilitated and expanded to meet this loading. The need to
maintain a balanced annual investment program through 1981, with the urgent
water project elements to be executed by 1977/78 means that the sewerage
program will commence more slowly and peak in the second phase. 1/
B.   Population and Demand Projections 2/
5.06      When preparing design criteria the consultants forecast a decline
in decennial population growth from 44% in 1961-71, to 30% in 1971-81 and
20% in the next decade. This represents a population increase of only 1.9
million in 1971-81, but the forecast may not be realistic, because so far,
urban growth remains unchecked and if the 1961-71 pattern continues, the
increase by 1981 could be 2.6 million.
5.07      The project should enable industry to obtain a 2-5% increase in
supplies from 1973/74 and have quota restrictions removed after 1977. These
quotas, which have prevented adequate assessment of industrial demand,
particularly as BNC has been unable to meet them for the past four years,
have cut back industrial production. Some industry has moved to the Trans-
Thana region, even though assets remain in use in Bombay which are capable
of expanded production with adequate water supply.
5.08      The consultants estimate current domestic water demand to be
158 1/cd, but only about 112 1/cd is now being provided, while wastage
is estimated at 16% of the limited intermittent supply. Demand is estimated
to rise to 186 1/cd through 1981, but the forecast population increase and
continuing water shortage by that date would limit supplies to 147 1/cd,
which is about 60-70% of forecast consumption and design standards of other
Indian and Asian cities. Currently 71% of the domestic demand is estimated
to be satisfied, by irregular and inconvenient supply hours, but by 1981
supply hours would be doubled and about 80% of domestic demand satisfied.
Current water demand is virtually controlled by supply rationing and not
by BMC's pricing policy (para 7.14).
C.   Re-urn on Investment
5.09      The benefits of the project are clear.  Bombay is t-he capital of
one of India's most dynamic regions. Periodic water shortages in the past
have led to serious economic disruption and personal hardship. Inadequate
sewerage facilities have had similar effects. Unless this situation is
remedied, the future development of Bombay and therefore of West India
would greatly suffer. The project constitutes a major overdue step toward
solving this problem. However, it is not feasible to relate these benefits
1/   See Annex 4 - chart 7141.
2/   See Annex 7.



- 13 -
precisely enough w-ith costs to estimate meaningfully the economic return on
the investment. Moreover, in a situation of continuing shortage of supply
in which only 57% of the supply is metered, expected revenues do not constitute
even a satisfactory approximation to expected benefits.
5.10      On the basis of expected additions to revenues the incremental
financial rate of return is low -- about 1% -- but the projected financial
cash flow from the system as a whole still shows a reasonable position. The
return on the investment is low because the average price charged for water
is below the marginal cost of system expansion represented by the project.
The marginal cost of providing for additional facilities is high because
(a) the distribution system provided under the project would initially be
under-utilized; and (b) the benefits resulting from the improved quality
of water by the water treatment plants in the project will not be reflected
in revenues.
5.11      The low incremental financial return, however much it may reflect
a deliberate policy of charging less than economic prices to major groups of
constumers for social reasons, strongly suggests that the water charges are
out of line with economic costs.  The project accordingly provides for a
study of water supply and sewerage tariffs (para 7.14) which would, among
other things, review the structure as well as the average level of prices
with a view to constraining rationally the demand for these expensive services
in Bombay.
D.   Least Cost Solution
5.12      The program elements and the project represent today's least
cost solution of meeting the prescribed objectives. Wherever applicable,
the consultants have demonstrated that selected components had the lowest
present worth of costs under 6%, 8%, 10% and 12% discount rates, after
comparison with alternatives.
VI. THE PROJECT ENTITY
A.   Organization and Management
6.01      BMC, consisting of 140 elected representatives, established under
the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act of 1888, is the autonomous authority
for the principal municipal services including water supply, sewerage and
sewage disposal in Greater Bombay. It administers these services through
25 departments and a staff of 95,000. BMC is able to maintain its consider-
able autonomy because amendments to the Act e.g. power to borrow, or raising
of new taxation or charges have normally to be approved by BMC before sub-
mission to GOM for legislative action, although GOM can introduce controlling
legislation, should this be necessary. GOI laws and regulations can also
regulate certain BMC activities e.g. foreign exchange availability. Despite
nunerous amendments to this Act, much of the original 19th century legis-
lation governing the operation and maintenance of services, including water



- 14 -
supply, sewerage and sewage disposal in Chapters IX and X remains in force
today. Failure to effect necessary changes in legislation and introduce
modern management techniques are among the principal causes for the deterior-
ation of the water supply and sewerage services.
6.02      Until recently, water supply and sewerage services have been con-
trolled in varying degrees by six committees and the ward (district) system.
This latter system required that local government should, as far as possible,
be conducted at ward level, to meet electoral requirements, but water supply
and sewerage services are best organized on a topographical basis which
normally does not correspond with electoral wards. One unfortunate result
has been competing demands between wards for the limited facilities and
supplies, without regard to the best technical and economic solutions.
6.03      Until 1971, when the new water supply and sewerage department was
formed (para 6.04), BTIC had three separate departments (Water Projects,
Hydraulic Engineers' and City Engineers') plus administration and accounting
services of four other departments for water supply and sewerage, which were
administered by the Municipal Commissioner, three deputy municipal commis-
sioners and seven chief officers. There was no coordination of development
either within water supply or sewerage and sewage disposal or between these
services. The span and division of control required by the system, meant
that senior officers could not provide adequate management and advice, and
frequently had their loyalties divided between competing demands of legis-
lators, staff and the public.
6.04      From October 1972, BMC has been actively implementing Binnie
& Partners' proposals for establishment of a separate water supply and
sewerage department (WSSD) in stages from 1972 through 1975, including esta-
blishing the WSSD and making the Standing Committee (which is the principal
committee of B11C) responsible for all water supply and sewerage planning,
development, operation and maintenance.  BMC have, by resolution, approved
draft legislation for GOM enactment of a Bombay Municipal Corporation
(Amendment) Act, 1973 (BMC(A) Act) which will, inter-alia, establish exclusively
for water supply and sewerage (i) a fund whose balances will be used only
for these services; (ii) a separate budget; (iii) an accruals (or commercial)
accounting system; and (iv) adequate methods of introducing and varying
tariffs and charges. It is proposed that the enactment of the BM1C (A) Act
1973 will be a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
B.   Operations, Management and Training
6.05      The 'Iunicipal Commissioner, the GOM appointed principal officer of
B1EC, is responsible for management and organization of all services, except
Bombay Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST), and retains overall control
of WSSD.  Since 1972, one chief officer, the Deputy Municipal Commissioner
(Special Engineering) (DMCSE) under the Municipal Commissioner, has respons-
ibility for directing all WSSD operations, and instituting a self-contained
public utility system, including administration, finance and accounting.
The existing departments of Water Projects, and Hydraulic Engineer with the
sewerage sections of the City Engineer's Department have become sections of



- 15 -
WSSD under the DMCSE (see Organization Chart in Annex 8). BMC has established
WSSD posts recommended by their consultants and has authorized the Municipal
Conmissioner to fill these posts. At negotiations, BMC gave assurances that
it will consult with IDA prior to making any material modification in the
structure, organization, responsibilities and technical and financial opera-
tions of 11SSD including changes in posts of the equivalent of deputy chief
er,gineer level and above.
6.06      WSSD, when fully developed in 1975, will be managed by a DMCSE
assisted by a Deputy with special responsibility for water and sewerage pro-
gramming. Reporting directly to the DMCSE will be four engineers controlling
water projects, sewerage projects, water supply operations and sewerage (and
sewage disposal) operations. Support functions of legal, accounting, internal
audit, personnel and contracting will be provided by an Additional Chief
Accountant, while a Common Services Engineer will be responsible for transport,
workshops, electrical and mechanical operations, purchasing and laboratory
facilities. With the exception of the Deputy and the Additional Chief
Accountant and Sewerage Operations Engineer, all senior and a number of middle-
level staff appointments have been made. WSSD's staff is estimated to rise
from the current 7,600 to 12,900 in 1975, before declining by reasons of
operational changes to 10,700 by 1981.
6.07      Although WSSD is established, certain operations will remain within
other BMC departments for a transitional period, particularly water and
sewerage tax revenue collection, accounting and personnel management. Most
of these functions should be transferred by mid-1974.
6.08      WSSD will place special emphasis on management systems to control
the large and complex project development, and embark on short and long-range
planning. WSSD intends to use local consultants to initiate these functions,
and to train existing and new staff in the operations, with the aim of
Department staff being able to provide these services by 1976. An extensive
training program, in-house, and inside and outside India, is being planned
to raise staff efficiency. Provisional estimates are for an annual program
costing US$200,000 which will require verification once the capabilities and
potential of existing and new staff are determined by the new management.
C.   Audit
6.09      The Municipal Chief Auditor will be required under provisions of
the BIIC(A) Act to carry out monthly and annual audits of the accounts of
WSSD, but the BMC Act also provides that GOM may appoint an auditor at any
time to carry out a special audit of BMC accounts. The reports of the Muni-
cipal Chief Auditor, which are made to the Council, have been examined by the
appraisal mission, which was impressed by his skill and independence. As a
BMIC officer, he is not independent of the Council, but his statutory position
enables him to report freely on WSSD and the Standing Committee. At negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained (i) that GOM would appoint an independent
and competent auditor to audit the accounts of WSSD, if the audit thereof
by the Municipal Chief Auditor is found unsatisfactory by GOM or IDA; and
(ii) that audited financial statements relating to WSSD will be submitted to
IDA not later than six months after the close of each financial year.



- 16 -
VII. FINANCE
A.   Existing Budgetary and Accounting Systems
7.01      BMC operates a governmental-type, manual accounting system, on a
cash basis for all services. The budget is prepared on a city divisional
basis (not on a service basis), and is drawn in such a manner that deficit
financing is avoided and a revenue surplus is realized for BMC as a whole,
after charging external and internal debt service. The budget is the sole
means of financial control and has diverted attention from a cost-effective
approach by departmental and section heads. There are no planned targets
of investment or incentives to improve operating efficiency. This system
has kept BMC solvent, but has resulted in the building of ver-y large
balances (which contribute to a reasonable financial situation for the
start of the new department). Currently water supply and sewerage are
contained in three divisional budgets (controlled by three works committees).
Not until 1971/72 at the consultants' suggestion was any presentation made
of complete water supply budget and final accounts. However, this remains
an addendum only to the standard system, and no separate presentation exists
for sewerage or other BMC services.
7.02      Although the system is unnecessarily complex, and many of the
controls are cumbersome, the system is well maintained by a disciplined
staff under the supervision of qualified accountants led by the Municipal
Chief Accountant. However, this team has been content to preserve the present
system without serious attempt to press for, or present major changes which
would enable management to recognize the operational and financial ineffi-
ciencies of BMC.
B.   Proposed Budgetary and Accounting System
7.03      From April 1, 1974, WSSD will have its owm budget (para. 6.04) a
separate commercial accounting system and a separate fund for the performance
of its responsibilities, the balances thereon being reserved solely for water
supply and sewerage services. The new management will prepare the most
suitable system for financial control. The Additional Chief Accountant will
be responsible for accounting operations of water supply and sewerage, except
where certain functions need not be immediately severed from existing depart-
ments. e.g. tax collection. Local consultants have commenced work in 1973
to assist in constructing the new system, based on accruals accounting, with
emphasis on costing, management accounting and efficient billing and col-
lection systems. Consultants will also advise on budgetary systems, tariffs
and charging levels, and coordinate short and long-range planning (para 6.08).
BHIC(A) Act (para 6.04) will require WSSD to operate a departmental Loans Fund,
in place of the existing complex and time-consuming sinking fund system for
capital financing (Annex 11). Water supply and sewerage will be regarded
as an integral financial unit in BMC and either service can support the other
from generated revenues.



- 17 -
C. Past Performiance and Present Position of Water Supply and Sewerage
Services
7.04      Messrs. Coopers and Lybrand were engaged as sub-contractors to
Binnie & Partners for the 1971 Feasibility Report, to establish the financial
position of water supply and sewerage services for the period 1966/67 through
1970/71, and to prepare the opening departmental accounts on an accruals basis.
BMC balance sheets in Annex 9 show water supply and sewerage services form
a major part of BMC activities. Over a third of all assets and liabilities
relate to these services, while detailed examination revealed that for the
past ten years the major proportion of BMC's small annual investment authori-
zation of Rs 9 crores (US$12 million) has been allocated to water supply.
Since no assets register exists, all capital transactions from 1945 were
extracted and it was assumed that the capital balance sheet figures as at
April 1, 1945 were correct.  No attempt has been made to revalue the assets
to current values, since (i) revaluations based on book values would be
meaningless, because many of the assets are in very poor condition and probably
do not reflect their already low book value; (ii) a correct valuation would
require a complete engineering appraisal which would take many months and
further delay the project; (iii) except for the Vaitarna Dam and Upper Vaitarna
transmission lines, all the major investment took place before 1939, much of
it before 1919, and is already effectively discharged; and (iv) the value of
the proposed development program investments will outrank all previous invest-
ments by 5:1. Supervision missions should, however, ensure that the consult-
ants and BMC undertake assets valuations when preparing the new assets registers
for the accounts.
7.05      Examination of the water supply accounts reveal that this service
has been operated broadly as a self-financing undertaking. An opening accu-
mulated surplus at April 1, 1966 of Rs 24 crores (US$31 million) had risen
to Rs 41 crores (US$53 million) at end of 1970/71. Cash balances have ranged
from Rs 3 crores (US$4 million) overdrawn to surplus of over Rs 6 crores
(US$8 million). Financial rates of return in this period ranged between
11.4% and 16.4% on net fixed assets in operation. Capital expenditure 1966/71
mostly on the Upper Vaitarna mains was Rs 36 crores (US$47 million), financed
by external borrowings of Rs 24 crores (US$31 million) and the balance from
internal cash generation.
7.06      For sewerage and sewage disposal, BMC did not recover operating
costs and debt service by any form of direct charges. The only attributable
income is halalkhore tax (para 3.08) of 3.5% on all property values. This
tax is intended to cover the costs of removing all wastes from privies,
cesspools and septic tanks, but these operating costs have exceeded the tax
income each year, leaving no income to meet the costs of sewerage and sewage
disposal. The cost of these services has been borne by BMC General tax.
Capital expenditure was Rs 3 crores (US$4 million) (less than 10% of water
supply), of which 75% was provided from external borrowing, the remainder
from internal cash generation i.e. taxes.
7.07      The new department is estimated to have a satisfactory financial
position as at April 1, 1973, providing BMC make the necessary transfer



- 18 -
of balances (see para 7.09). Net fixed assets in operation of Rs 100 crores
(US$130 million) at that date will be financed by 47% borrowings and 53%
equity, which is composed of capital expenditures met from revenues, and
consumers' contributions. Current assets, which exceed current liabilities
by 23% include a cash surplus of Rs 8.6 crores (US$11.2 million) (see
para 7.08). The rate of return on net fixed assets in operation for 1972/73
for water supply is estimated to be 9.5% and for combined services 7.5X,
reflecting the fact that BMIC operates many very old assets which have low
book values after depreciation, and has installed few new assets in the
past 30 years (Annexes 12 and 14).
7.08      The majority of BMC borrowing in recent years has been by annual
12-year maturity bond issues currently at 6% per annum at a small discount
of 1% or less. BMC issues bonds annually - in October/November - and this
cash is used for investment requirements for the following 12 months. This
creates a high liquidity situation as shown in balance sheets drawn on
March 31 at the close of each financial year. These funds are temporarily
invested until required. BMC has internal pension, insurance and similar
funds which are used for internal finance of projects at 6% over 25 years.
It has been assumed that the new department will have access to a reasonable
proportion of these funds, although they will represent a minimal proportion
of its borrowing requirements.                                   -
7.09      The financial projections are given in Annexes 12, 13 and 14.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that audited financial statements
for BMC water supply and sewerage services for the year 1972-73 prepared on
a commercial accounting basis with an accompanying balance sheet as at March
31, 1973 will be submitted to IDA not later than December 31, 1973, and that
BMC will transfer all balances shown on the balance sheet to WSSD to form
the opening balances of the Water and Sewerage Fund and the Loans Fund of
W4SSD at April 1, 1973.
D.   Financing Plan
7.10      The financing plan for the years of project implementation 1972-78
and the development program period 1972-81 are summarized below. The second
phase works, consisting mainly of sewerage, are scheduled to commence in
1975 as one or more projects, and continue through 1981 with assets being
commissioned from 1976 onwards. The program shown does not include sewage
treatment and disposal which would add Rs 145 crores (US$189 million), if
GOM and BMC are authorized by GOI, and decide to include this investment
after 1974.



- 19 -
Project Period           Development Program
1972-78                  Period 1972-81
US$ Million                 US$ Million
Rs Crores Equivalent   %   Rs Crores Equivalent   %
Aplication of Funds
1972/73 Ongoing
Works                   14.0         18.2      7      14.0       18.2       5
Proposed Project        119.1        154.8     61    119.1       154.8      43
Second Phase
- Assets Commissioned  34.5          44.9     18    119.9       155.9      43
- Work in Progress at
end of period        21.7         28.2     11      14.3       18.6       6
Interest during
construction             6.4          8.3      3       8.6       11.2       3
195.7       254.4    100    275.9        358.7    100
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash
Generation             101.3        131.7            187.0      243.1
Less Debt Service        36.4         47.3             81.1      105.4
Net Cash Generation      64.9         84.4     33    105.9       137.7      39
GOM Grant                 6.5          8.4      3       6.5         8.4      2
Bond Issues              72.7         94.5     37    107.7       140.0      39
GOM Loan (IDA Credit)   42.3          55.0      22     42.3        55.0     15
Temporary Borrowing
(Internal Funds)         9.3         12.1      5      13.5       17.6       5
TOTAL         195.7        254.4    100    275.9        358.7    100
7.11      The proposed credit of US$55 million equivalent would meet
approximately 22% of the development program to 1978. BMC's past performance
has been to meet approximately 33% of water supply and sewerage dev7elopment
expenditures from internal cash generation. GOM and BMC's intentions are
that BMC should generate approximately 40% or more of capital expenditures
over the development program period, with the balance being provided from
GOM loans, including proceeds of the IDA credit, (para. 4.08), and public
bond issues.
7.12      It has been assumed that the market borrowing rate for bonds
will be 6% per annum, and in view of the long life of the assets, a 20-25
year repayment period should be used.  At negotiations, GO1 gave assurances
that sufficient loan funds will be made available to BMC for a repayment
period of 20-25 years (Annex 11, para. 24). The GOM grant of Rs 6.5 crores
(US$8.4 million) will be made in the last year (1973/74) of the IVth Plan
period, and represents the passing on by GOM of grant-in-aid made available
by GOI to State authorities for the development of water supplies. No grant
provision has been made for BMC in the Vth Plan period, although BMC is
pressing for further assistance.



- 20 -
E. Water Supply and Sewerage Charges
7.13      A review of BMC's past and present tariff policies, details of
current water taxation and metering and proposed sewerage taxation and meter-
ing from April 1, 1974 are given in Annex 10. Metered domestic water charges
remained unchanged at Rs. 0.17 per m3 (equivalent to US$0.10 per 1,000 gallons)
from 1959 until 1972. A 17.5% increase in 1972 with a 25% increase from
April 1, 1973 has brought the rate to Rs 0.25 per m3 (US$0.15 per 1,000 gal-
lons). Water tax, levied on 57% of connections (because of metering difficul-
ties) remained at 4% of property value from 1959 until April 1, 1973, when a 55%
increase raised it to 7%. Although an extension of the metering program
is planned for selected areas through 1981, many central areas will remain
unmetered (Annex 2, para 15). Industry and commercial properties are almost
100% metered; their charges increased in 1965, 1972 and 1973 to the current
average rate of Rs 0.74 per m3 (US$0.44 per 1,000 gallons). BMC intends to
introduce sewerage taxes based on property values, and charges based on
metered water flows from April 1, 1974, under the provisions of the BMC(A)
Act 1973.
7.14      The current and proposed tariffs and charging levels are dis-
criminatory although under existing conditions of restricted supplies and
unfulfilled industrial water quotas, the full effects cannot be determined.
Industrial consumers are being charged an average of 190% more than domestic
consumers. Water tax payers generally bear about 5-10% lower charges than
consumers on metered supply. No system for charging by ability to pay exists,
particularly for domestic consumers, when it should be possible and probably
justified in Bombay with its wide consumer wealth range and high/low cost
residential areas to make feasible gradations in charges. Tata Management
consultants will be advising on tariffs and charging levels as part of
their work (para 7.03) and supervision missions should ensure that BMC develops
a balanced and equitable tariff during the next two/three years (para 5.11).
7.15      The 1973/74 water supply tariff and the proposed sewerage tariff
from April 1, 1974, should provide sufficient revenues through March 1976,
when revisions and increases will be required. At negotiations, BMC agreed
to (i) maintain the current water supply tariff through 1973/74; and (ii) from
April 1, 1974 set and maintain for each financial year water supply and sewer-
age tariffs to provide operating revenues which, after meeting operating
expenses, depreciation, interest and debt repayments (in excess of deprecia-
tion provision), xwill provide for 1974/75 and 1975/76 not less than 33% of
capital expenditures of WSSD and for each year thereafter not less than 40%
of capital expenditures of ISSD. This latter percentage will be subject to
mutually agreed revision between BMC and IDA (a) after 1981; or (b) if BMC
is authorized by GOI and GOM to incur capital expenditures on an additional
sewage treatment and disposal investment program (Annex 4).
F.   Future Finances
7.16      BMC will achieve satisfactory performance if they can maintain
operating ratios of approximately 50% and to maintain a debt ratio with
equity at slightly over 50%, as snown in the financial projections. Until
the development program is completed it will not be possible to define a



- 21 -
meaningful rate of return on net fixed assets in operation due to the low
value of the existing assets base, and the continuously high level of
work-in-progress during the development program.
7.17      To ensure that the new department's development programs and
financing plans are viable, assurances were obtained at negotiations that
BMC will make available to IDA technical and financial details of WSSD annual
investment programs from 1974 through 1981.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      At negotiations, assurances were received on the following:
(a)  control and development of water resources of the Bombay
region (para 2.11);
(b)  onlending of the IDA credit proceeds by GOM to BMC
(para 4.08);
(c)  use of consultants by BMC for technical, financial and
economic studies of future sewage treatment and disposal
schemes (para 4.11);
(d)  review by IDA of BMC new draft agreements for bulk water
supplies (para 4.16);
(e)  future modifications in the organization and operations of
WSSD (para 6.05);
(f)  transfer of all balances of BMC water supply and sewerage
services to WSSD at April 1, 1973 (para 7.09);
(g)  requirements for maintaining adequate WSSD operating
revenues by BMC (para 7.15); and
(h)  information to be supplied to IDA regarding WSSD annual
investment programs (para 7.17).
8.02      A condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit will be the
enactment of the Bombay Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act of 1973 and
the establishment of the Water and Sewerage Fund and Loans Fund of WSSD
(para 6.04).
8.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of US$55 million.
April 30, 1973






ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Water Resources of Greater Bombay and the Bombay Metropolitan Region
Resources Development and Control of the Bombay Metropolitan Region (BMR)
1.        The interrelation of Bombay with the mainland areas was hardly
appreciated by GOM and BMC in planning Bombay's water supply, until the
mid-1960's, when major industrial development commenced on the mainland.
MIDC commenced developing industrial estates in the Dombivli-Shil4Ulhasnagar-
Ambernath-Badlapur belt, and a large industrial complex at Trans-Thana, across
Thana Creek, east of Bombay. The forecast water demands of these mainland
areas substantially exceeded the yields of the local abstraction schemes
that had hitherto been sufficient, and MIDC were forced to develop impounding
of reservoirs at Ransai and Barve to meet industrial needs.
2.        In 1966, GOM started construction of the Upper Vaitarna hydro-
electric scheme, and design of the Bhatsai irrigation/water supply project,
to provide additional water supply from these schemes to BMC.
3.        In 1969 CIDCO was formed to initially concentrate on the creation
of New Bombay, a city on the mainland opposite Bombay, which may have two
million inhabitants by 1991. Water demands of such a large city are esti-
mated in 1991 at 11 m3/sec, and should be integrated with demand of the
surrounding areas. Although CIDCO and MIDC are cooperating closely in
water resources planning, there is no overriding body which can coordinate
their activities with those of BMC, GOM and other authorities. As a result,
various authorities or entrepreneurs can develop water sources on the main-
land, and are doing so in a non-integrated manner.
4.        In a national and regional context, this results in an inefficient
allocation of a scarce water resource. It may also lead to developments
which are not the most suited to the needs of the community as a whole, even
if they are optimal from the point of view of development agencies (for exam-
ple, MIDC has no brief to consider whether irrigation should be encouraged
in areas adjacent to its industrial estates).
Water Resources and Demands of the Bombay Metropolitan Region (BMR)
5.        BMR was created in 1965 as a planning region but the boundaries
(Map 10146) are unrelated to hydrological boundaries (paragraph 9). The
BMC consultants, when preparing the Development Program, examined the water
resources availability, likely demand through 1991, and the regional policy
on water resources development.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
6.        The consultants prepared population and demand projections for
BIR through 1991 showing that, in 20 years, Greater Bombay's share of the
resource requirements, although rising by 50% in quantitative requirements,
will fall from 82% to 60% of the regional demand. Existing regional sources,
both developed and undeveloped, are estimated to yield 59 m3/sec, while de-
mand is estimated at 61 m3/sec, which is probably low because (a) it is
based on a declining population growth in Greater Bombay; and (b) unaccounted
for water by 1991 is estimated at only 15% - an optimistic assumption when
judged by actual operating efficiencies of local systems.
7.        It is therefore likely that serious competition will arise for
water sources in the coming years, and there must be a strong authority,
capable of planning for a 100% expansion in regional demand, and ensuring
that the necessary resources are available and developed in proper sequence,
with maximum economic benefit to the region.
Proposed Water Resources Authority
8.        The consultants concluded that (a) the water resources of the
islands of Bombay and Salsette are extremely small, and all future supplies
to Bombay will have to be drawn from mainland sources- (b) it is unrealistic
to consider Bombay's water supply problems in isolation from those in the
otlher built-up developing areas on the mainland which are part of BMR- and
(c) in the next 20 years water demands will approximately double in BMR.
No existing body is capable of carrying out the vital first stages in planning
and design. A permanent Water Resources Board ('WRB) for the Bombay region
should be established as soon as possible (see paragraph 2.11 of appraisal
report).
9.        The water resources boundary could include the Western Ghats
watershed to the sea, and comprise the following catchments:
(a) In the north, the Vaitarna/Tansa/Pinjal Gargai system.
(b) In the center, the Bhatsai/Kalu/Ulhas system, with its
tributaries, especially Shai, Barvi, Poshir and Shilar.
(c) In the south, the rivers draining to Dharamtar Creek,
especially the Patalganga and Balganga.
10.       The proposed IRE should have responsibility for water resources
planning in the Bombay region and should maintain close liaison with the
authorities responsible for operating other systems, e.g. hydroelectric
releases from lakes on the eastern slope of the Western Ghats. A WRB would
need to obtain early confirmation or correction of available data, and
commence planning for orderly development of existing sources and economic
evaluation of new sources before the end of this decade for BMR and re-
maining areas within the boundary in paragraph 9 above.
April 12, 1973



ANNEX 2
Page I
INDIA
BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Existing Water Supply System of Greater Bombay
A.   Introduction
1.        The oldest parts of the present water supply system were constructed
in the mid-19th century, to serve the commercial and residential areas which
had been developed on the southern part of Bombay Island, principally in the
area of the Fort, and the harbor. Rapid expansion of commerce and industry
on this small island caused a northward expansion of populated area to the
nearest available land, with the result that the neighboring island of
Salsette has been developed, small islands have been linked by land-fill,
and areas have been reclaimed fron the sea, in a constant effort to maintain
a close commercial and residential association with the main trading center
on the south of Bombay Island. All water supplies to Greater Bombay roughly
follow a north-south route from the source lying to the north and northeast
of the island, to the heavily congested center of Greater Bombay.
B.   Present pattern of supply
2.        To obtain an equitable distribution of water under conditions of
intermittent supply, a complex operating pattern has been developed. Some
areas are supplied by direct feeds from the trunk mains, some by service
reservoirs, and others by a combination of the two. Hours of supply are
short and often inconvenient, and in order to stagger supply hours to areas,
a large number of valves have to be operated daily. This operating pattern
is continually being amended, taking account of new works brought into use,
meeting seasonal demand fluctuations, allowing for redistribution or growth
of domestic and industrial demands, and meeting day-to-day contingencies.
W{hatever operating patterns are devised, the present system is incapable
of ensuring a truly equitable distribution of water. The 1971/72 hours of
supply are illustrated in broad outline on Map 10191, and a breakdown of
the population by hours of supply from distribution mains is as follows:
Hours of Supply      2 or less    2-3    3-5    5-8    8-12    12-18   Total
Population
(millions)           1.3        0.9    1.4    1.0      0.7     0.6     5.9
Percentage of
population            21        16     23      17      13      10       100



ANNEX 2
Page 2
C.   Water sources at present used by or under deveoplment for BMC (Map 10146)
3.        The nominal source abstractions through 1981 are estimated as
follows, but the MIDC Barve Source could add 1 to 2 m3/sec:
M /sec    _ /sec
Sources at present used by BMC
(a)  Vehar (BMC)                                 0.6
(b)  Tulsi (BMC)                                 0.2
(c)  Tansa (BMC)                                 4.9
(d)  Vaitarna (BMC)                              5.4
(e)  Ulhas (GOM)                                 1.1        12.2
Source to be fully used by BMC 1973/74
(f)  Upper Vaitarna (GOM)                        6.2 -/      6.2
Source projected to be used by BMC 1976/77
(g)  Bhatsai Stage I (GOM)                       5.3         5.3
TOTAL                                       23.7
4.        The following are the principal characteristics of BMC sources
and reservoirs:
Date constructed                             Nominal
Name           (extended)           Dam length         live storage
Million m3
Vehar          1856-(1899)      (3 dams) - longest
225 m               31
Tulsi          1878-(1894)              599 m                8
Tansa          1892-(1927)            2,750 m              145
Vaitarna       1955                     555 m              142
5.        The Ulhas (GOM) Scheme, commissioned in 1967 by BMC and GOM, as an
emergency scheme, makes use of the residual flows in the Ulhas river, after
the demands of other users have been met; BMC have permission from GOM to
abstract up to 1.1 m3/sec, although larger abstractions could be supported.
3
1/   Approximate 1.8 m /sec currently available, giving a total current
yield of 14 m3/sec.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
6.        Upper Vaitarna (GOM).  GOM are currently constructing two dams
across the Alwandi and Vaitarna rivers to form the Upper Vaitarna reservoir.
Releases will be made through a hydroelectric generating station or by-
passed into the Vaitarna river, and will flow into BMC's Vaitarna reservoir,
increasing its rellable yield. Water available is estimated 3.4 m3/sec
by 1973 with a3total yield of 6.2 m3/sec in 1974, in addition to Vaitarna
yield of 5.4 m /sec.
7.        Bhatsai Dam (GOM4).  The first stage, now under construction by COM,
on a site immediately downstream of the confluence of the Bhatsai and Chornai
rivers. The dam will enable releases to be made for BMIC water supply and GOM
irrigation projects.  Water supply releases have been settled 3without refer-
ence to BIC, but the yield of Stage I has been taken as 5.3 m /sec for water
supply: the consultants confirm that this yield can be supported by the
reservoir. A second stage is due to be completed in the early 1980's.
D.   Water Jquality and treatment works
8.        Raw water abstracted from Tulsi reservoir and from Ulhas river
undergoes flocculation, sedimentation and rapid sand filtration. A similar
treatment plant is under construction for the Vehar reservoir. The water
from Tansa and Vaitarna lakes is chlorinated only, although flocculation and
rapid sand filtration are required. Chlorination is carried out at Powai
for the city, at the entrance to the east-west tunnel for the western suburbs
and at Bhandup and MIulund for the eastern suburbs. Prechlorination takes place
at the inlet side of all service reservoirs.
E.   Transmission mains (Map 10146)
9.        Water is conveyed from Tansa and Vaitarna water by three trans-
mission mains. A new main from Upper Vaitarna will be commissioned early
1973. A serious design deficiency exists in the transmission system. BMC
were not allowed to import large valves and designed the transmission system
with 48-in valves as the largest control units. To obtain maximum flows,
BMC had to over-design the transmission line diameters requiring higher in-
vestment costs. A duct forming the oldest connection between Tansa and
Bombay is in poor condition with high leakage rate and not satisfactorily
protected from pollution. Ulhas water is pumped to the Tansa mains, while
Vehar and Tulsi water is gravity-fed to city service reservoirs.
F.   Service reservoirs (Map 10147)
10.       Incoming mains to the reservoirs are connected to the distribution
grid, resulting in most reservoirs not being filled, although the total
reservoir capacity is 438,000 m3, representing about 37% of daily supply.
This capacity under normal conditions should be sufficient, but under in-
termittent supply conditions, additional storage should be available. Low
pressures and water shortage allow only four of five city reservoirs and one
of nine reservoirs in the suburbs to be in normal use.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
C.   Distribution systei (tIap 10147)
11.       The distribution pipes consist mainly of cast iron with lead joints
or rubber joints. Some of the larger mains which have been subject to severe
corrosion are steel pipes protected with concrete mortar. Some asbestos
cement mains exist in the suburbs. The records of the distribution system
are generally of poor quality and out of date. The total lengths of mains
recorded up to 1971 was 1,896 km.
12.       BMC have been carrying out network analyses for some years to
convert areas directly supplied from incoming trunk mains to a system de-
pendent on service reservoirs, and determining network extensions and rein-
forcements. Two-thirds of the City and one-third of those in the Suburban
zones have now been analyzed. The number of proposed zones is 76, with
several zones supplied by one service reservoir, each zone having a separate
feeder main.
13.       One of the major achievements of the pre-appraisal project phase
was the consultant's demonstration, and BMC's acceptance, of the feasibility
and importance of a leakage abatement program. Several sample experiments
were conducted which revealed that present distribution system leakage under
equivalent 24-hours supply conditions is 40-45% of the inflow, and that cor-
rective measures could reduce this to less than 12%.
Hi. Connections and metering
14.       All industrial supplies in Greater Bombay and all domestic supplies
in the Suburbs are metered. In the City, only about 20% of connections are
metered, the remainder mainly serving the older types of property. At March,
1971, communal taps and standpipes totalled 2,750, while the total number of
connections was 144,000 of which 82,000 were unmetered. Of the 62,000 meters,
53% were BMC property.
15.       Metering of chawls, where communal taps are provided to serve
groups of tenements, has not been undertaken in the City. Extending metering
in the old congested part of the city would be extremely difficult as con-
sumer pipes are frequently laid out in such a manner that there is virtually
no position in which a meter can be installed and kept free from theft or
interference. Indian manufactured inferential-type meters only are used.
The service interval of the average meter is by various reasons only 21 months
and connections remain unmetered for 1-4 months. In the City about 50% of
the meters brought to the repair shop are found to be suffering from willful
external damage.
April 12, 1973



.NNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Existing Sewerage, Sewage Treatment and Disposal
Systems of Greater Bombay
Introduction
1.        BMC is responsible for the collection, treatment and disposal of
sewage, septic tank wastes, night soil and solid wastes throughout Greater
Bombay. The Trombay district is presently served by sewerage systems
operated by Government or industry, but the Development Program proposes
that the removal and treatment of these effluents should become BMC's
responsibility.
Sewered and Unsewered Areas
2.        Estimates of population served by sewers and those in unsewered
areas at March 31, 1971 were:
City     Suburbs      Total
million----------
Sewered Areas             2.9        0.3         3.2
Partly Sewered             -          1.7        1.7
Unsewered                 0.1         0.9        1.0
Total                3.0        2.9         5.9
3.        The City is fully sewered except for a few areas recently devel-
oped. In the City only about 45% of housing units have individual lava-
tories; 52% have common facilities which, because of over-use and shared
responsibility and maintenance, often do not function. Alt'hough the area
is sewered there are still about 1,500 privies without running water. Some
3% of the City's housing units are hutments which rarely have any sanitary
facilities. The estimated 280,000 hutment and pavement dwellers use the
217 public sanitary conveniences (many of which are only urinals) or any
open space.
4.        Before the 1951 boundary extension, sewerage facilities existed
only in parts of the suburbs of Bandra and Khar. In the eastern suburbs,
Kurla had some sewers but, for lack of a suitable outfall, these could not
be used. The remainder of the suburbs taken over in 1958 by BMC had no
sewerage facilities and the sewering of these areas has made little progress.
Although designs have been prepared and sewer construction is in hand, no



ANNEX 3
Page 2
public sewers are in use. An estimated 67% of the housing units have in-
dividual lavatories, 26% have shared facilities and possibly 7O representing
an estimated 440,000 persons have none.  Of the suburban latriaes some
17,000 do not have flushing arrangements.
Sanitation in Unsewered Areas
5.        The unsewered or partly sewered areas are estimated to operate
over 7,000 aqua privies, 11,500 basket privies and 8,700 septic tanks.
Since 1957 the Corporation has required all new permanent properties to
have water closets, which may be of the flushing or nonflushing type, used
in conjunction with an approved type of septic tank where no public sewer
is available. In the unsewered areas, the newer properties and the
better-type older properties have septic tanks. BMC has difficulty in
ensuring that property drainage systems and septic tank installations are
designed and constructed to required standards; the rocky and impermeable
nature of the subsoil in many areas, and the high water table in other areas,
render seepage pits and dispersion trenches ineffectual. The effluent from
most septic tanks flows through open ditches or conduits into surface water
channels, many of which drain into low-lying areas. In a very few instances,
attempts have been made to improve the quality of the effluent by means of
biological filter beds.
6.        BMC has recently started a program for constructing communal
latrines and ablution blocks in authorized hutment colonies, but no such
facilities are being provided for colonies started after April 1964, which
are classed as illegal, or for pavement-dwellers.  Where such facilities
are lacking, indiscriminate evacuation takes place on the banks of water-
courses, paved footpaths, verges, beaches and open spaces.  Mas: hutments
are constructed on unpaved areas; because all water has to be carried to
each hut, the daily usage is not great. In such colonies, most of the
sullage drains into the ground or evaporates from shallow ponds.
7.        The tank-emptying service provided by the Corporation is unable
to maintain a regular program because of limited resources of labor and
transport. Efforts are mainly directed to relieving the most objectionable
instances of local flooding. The practice of dumping collected night-soil
and septic tank emptyings into the nearest creek at all states of the tide
impoc-- a concentrated pollution load on the receiving waters. Vehicular
access to creek areas is limited by the extensive surrounding salt marshes,
so dumping points are close to bridges in developed areas; the nuisance
caused is very noticeable.
Sewerage System (Map 10192)
8.        The Bombay system is intended to be a separate system but because
of inadequate capacity cross-connections have been made and extensive over-
flows of sewage occur into the storm water drains which are discharged
untreated into inshore waters.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
9.        For the City most of the sewage is conveyed by gravity to the
Lovegrove Sewage Works where, after primary treatment of pa-t of the flow,
it is all pumped to sea through an outfall, completed in 186J, which termi-
nates at about low water level  The City area is at present served by
eleven ejecLor stations and fourteen pumping stations on the sewer routes,
and by five sewage treatment works. The ejector stations were constructed
between 1893 and 1905 and still house the original equipment. Three of
these stations are currently being replaced by new pumping stations.
Io0       For the suburbs the Corporation has prepared schemes for the
sewerage and for the treatment of the collected sewage. Three sewage
treatment works have been built at Versova, Khar and Ghatkopar and some
sewage from Kurla is pumped to the Dharavi works for treatment. Provision
is also to be made for pumping the flow from Bandra to a sewer in the
Dhazavi District, but the link is not yet operational. Much work remains
to be done in these areas.
Treatment Works and Outfalls (Map 10192)
I1.       Of the eight existing treatment works, only three are constructed
for biological (secondary) treatment, the remaining works provide primary
treatment only. None of the treatment works has sufficient capacity to
cater for the incoming flow, even during dry weather, and excess flows are
by-passed and discharged untreated. The outfalls from Colaba, Banganga and
Lovegrove are directly into the sea, the flow from Dharavi and Khar dis-
charges into Mahim creek, and the flow from Dadar into the drainage channel
leading to the Worli sluices. The discharge from the Versova works drains
into a grassed, marshy area. At the Ghatkopar works settled sewage is
sometimes pumped to Deonar for irrigating reclaimed land near the Corpora-
tion's main refuse dumping ground; it is otherwise discharged with excess
flows of raw sewage, into a nearby open channel stormwater drain, passing
under roads and through housing development before discharging into Thana
creek.
12.       The condition of many of the treatment units, especially of
their mechanical components, is poor and many units are out of action for
long periods of time or never used. The effective treatment capacity is
accordingly well below the nominal capacity. Open, under-drained beds are
provided at the treatment works for drying digested sludge, but storms and
high humidity render these ineffective during the monsoon period. The
sludge is then discharged directly into stormwater drains and watercourses.
April 12, 1973






ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Development Program 1972-1981 and Project 1972-1978
Introduction
1.        The urgent need for improved water supply, sewerage and sewage
disposal services in Bombay has been demonstrated in Annexes 2 and 3 when
describing the present situation. The Development Program has been sub-
divided into three overlapping phases -- (a) ongoing works, i.e. contracts
let by BMC from 1968 to 1972; (b) the first major phase called the First
Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project covers the period i972-78 and
forms the base for the proposed IDA credit; and (c) a second phase sched-
uled to commence in 1975 and extending through 1981. This last phase may
be subdivided into a second or subsequent projects according to the future
BMC reviews of the Development Program (see Chart 7141).
Consultants Report and Alternative Schemes
2.        BMC consultants prepared a program of works through 1981 (now
known as Scheme A), which would almost clear the backlog of water supply,
sewerage and sewage disposal work in Greater Bombay. This size of this
program, in construction and resources requirements, caused BMC, GOM and
GOI to ask for alternative sequences, which could defer part of the pro-
gram until after 1981. The consultants then prepared two additional pro-
grams, known as Schemes B and C, which retained the basic water supply and
sewerage improvements, but revised the sewage treatment and disposal pro-
gram as follows:
Scheme B: would involve deferring one of two submarine
outfalls (Mahim), headworks at Bandra and
certain conveyance works until after 1981; and
Scheme C: would involve deferring until after 1981 the
two submarine outfalls, headworks, treatment
plants and certain main conveyance works.
Scheme C thus represents the minimum work water supply and sewerage which
should be undertaken through 1981. However, this scheme will result in
a continuation and increase of the already extreme pollution of the tidal
and coastal waters.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
3.        GOI have approved Scheme C and the first parts of this Development
Program are included in the Project. So far, discussions are still proceed-
ing and a final decision need not be made until 1974/75, when construction
of the principal sewage treatment and disposal systems should commence if
either Scheme A or B is to be implemented. BMC and GOM consider that
Scheme A is the scheme which should be adopted, but require GOI approval to
the raising of the necessary loans, and may ask for grant-in aid also. In
the meantime, BMC propose to prepare designs for sewage treatment and
disposal works for Scheme A during the course of the Project.
4.        The estimated costs of the total Development Program and of the
Project are:
Water               Sewage
Supply   Sewerage  Disposal  Total
Development Program
Prices -
escalated through 1981    192         166         189     547
Project
Prices -                                                  '1
escalated through 1978    111          40           7-!   158
Project as % of
Development Program         58%        24%          4%     29%
/1   Land acquisition and consulting fees which will be required to
ensure prompt commencement of these works under a second project.
Water Supply (Maps 10146, 10147)
5.        Two-thirds of the water supply development program will be executed
during the project. Little investment will occur in the period 1977-79, but
further investments to receive supplies from new source developments should
commence in 1979/80.
(a) Source Development
6.        The water source developments included in the program are GOM
completion of the Upper Vaitarna dam and the first stage of the Bhatsai
dam, with capital contributions (Upper Vaitarna) or payment for apportioned
water volumes (Bhatsai) by BMC. No allowance has been made in the 1972-81
program for development of the second or third stages of the Bhatsai proj-
ect, not only because this cannot be identified at this stage as the most



ANNEX 4
Page 3
economical source, but also because of the need to achieve better balance
between water supply and sewerage befcre bringing more water into Greater
Bombay. For conveying water from Upper Vaitarna a new transmission main
has been laid and will be commissioned early 1973.
(b) Bhatsai Scheme (Map 10146)
7.        A weir on the Bhatsai River will be constructed at Pise which was
the most suitable site, being the upstream limit for salt water intrusion,
giving shortest possible transmission mains and economy in pumping. The
intake channel will initially be constructed for future extended abstrac-
tions. A pumping station will pump from Pise to the Panjrapur treatment
site.3 Five working pumps and 2 stand-by pumps will be dimensioned for
5.3 m /sec. The pumping station is designed for the first stage Bhatsai
development but will be capable of future extension.
8.        The water quality in the Bhatsai river varies with the seasons,
and during monsoon the turbidity and color can be high. This has led
BMC to request a separate treatment plant at Panjrapur for Bhatsai water,
to be operated during the monsoon season only. During the dry season the
water will by-pass the plant. Chemical treatment, followed by coagulation,
flocculation and sedimentation, is proposed, and the project cost estimates
reflect these requirements. However, it is proposed to further review
the concept and designs before contruction (para 4.11 of appraisal report).
A pumping station will raise the water from the treatment plant to the
injection point in the Vaitarna mains at Yewai. Transmission mains of
2,350 mm 0 steel pipe will be used.
(c) Agra Road Depot Control Valves Station
9.        For regulation of water flows from Tansa and Vaitarna and to
provide for draw-off variation from water sources including the Bhatsai
river, control valves will be installed on the Tansa and Vaitarna trans-
mission mains at Agra Road Depot upstream of the Bhatsai connection points.
(d) Bhandup Treatment Works
10.       BMC and the consultants have proposed that all mainland water
should be treated before distribution. Accordingly, the project includes
the construction of new treatment works at Bhandup with a capacity of
22.1 m3/sec. Water from Tansa, Vaitarna, and Upper Vaitarna sources which
are presently being supplied without filtration, part of the water from the
Ulhas river scheme (Annex 2, paragraph 8) and pretreated water from Bhatsai
river (paragraph 8 above) is proposed to be further treated at Bhandup works.
BMC consultants had recommended, on the basis of field tests, that chemical
dosing, followed by filtration without any sedimentation, should be suffi-
cient for the quality of water to be treated. During detailed design of
the treatment plant the need for further pilot plant studies to derive
design criteria for mixing and filtration at Bhandup became evident. A
pilot plant for model testing of mixing, followed by use of test filters
would be set up by BMC immediately in order to enable testing during the



ANNEX 4
Page 4
1973 monsoon period. The tests will be carried out under the supervision of
BMC's consultants. The project as proposed now includes facilities for
chemical dosing, rapid sand filtration (filter rate 7.2 meters per hour) and
chlorination. The final design of the treatment plant will be made after
an evaluation of the test results.
(e)  Service Reservoirs
11.       Total added capacity will amount to 377,000 m . The total capacity
including the master balancing reservoir will by 1977 amount to 1 million m3
representing 50% of the total available supply. Each service reservoir
capacity will be adapted to the water demand in its particular area.
(f) Distribution System
12.       Existing trunk transmission mains from Tansa and Vaitarna will be
used for conveyance of water from Bhandup treatment plant to service reservoirs.
Additional system reinforcement will be necessary including a 2,500 mm diameter
main from bhandup to Maroshi. Incoming mains to service reservoir will be
disconnected from the service grid. The distribution system will be extended
and rehabilitated gradually according to the results from the network analysis.
The program includes installation of 113 km pipes of which 88 kms will be
included in the First Project. The following distribution design criteria
have been adopted: domestic peak of 3-5 times average demand dependent upon
zones; industrial peak of 1.5 times average demand; minimum pressure of
1.5 kg/cm2 at basement tanks for boosting; and 2.25 kg/cm2 elsewhere.
(g) Instrumentation and Control
13.       For operation of the extended water systems a Control Center will
be constructed at Bhandup treatment works. Instrumentation will be provided
for measuring of water flows in various trunk mains, water levels in the
water sources and the reservoirs, water-pressures, pumping rates, filtration
periods, chemical dosing, water qualities, etc. The data will be transmitted
by telemetry or verbally over a proposed new radio network.
(h) Metering
14.       The improvements in performance of meters are expected to accrue
from measures to reduce pilferage and silt content and improvement in
continuity of supply. Additional repair capacity will be needed by 1981,
assuming that metering is extended into all new properties and private
meters are replaced with municipal ones.
(i) Subsequent Projects after 1975
15.       These will be directed to further improvement and extension of
the distribution system (60 km), but the amount of work involved will be   3
much less than that in the Project. One further service reservoir (9,000 m )
will be constructed, one further inlet main 1.3 km long, and outlet mains
totalling 25 km. Reconditioning of the Tansa mains by mortar lining should
be completed by 1978.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
(j) Operation and Maintenance
16.       Implementation of the Development Program will result in a sub-
stantial expansion of the system in the course of a few years; a number of
organization changes are in course of implementation. There is at present
only very limited experience in BMC of large treatment work¢s and instrumenta-
tion. Extensive training of the staff of the new organization will be
required, both in India and overseas. In addition, maintenance of instruments
requires highly trained specialist personnel, and it will be necessary to
enter into maintenance contracts until such time as BMC personnel are trained
and able to take responsibility for maintenance.
Sewerage and Sewage Disposal (Map 10192)
(a) Development Program 1972/81 (Scheme A)
17.       This scheme is not yet approved nor fully evaluated and can be
subject to considerable changes. In its ucurrent form it is not the least-
cost solution but it is set out below because it represents tre main features
of a program necessary to provide Greater Bombay with reasonable sanitary
conditions by 1981.
(b) Sewerage Systems
18.       Existing 17 drainage districts will be amalgamated into five
zones. The City will be covered by Malabar, Worli and southern part of
Mahim zones and the Suburbs by Marve, Chembur and the remainder of Mahim
zones. The works in the zones included in the project are described below:
Malabar Zone
The works to be undertaken are primarily remeZlal; the
immediate requirement is to relieve the present surcharge on
the system, by replacing existing pumping and ejector stations
by new pumping stations of increased capacity. The existing
treatment works at Banganga will be replaced by a new pumping
station which will pump sewage to Lovegrove in Worli Zone.
Colaba sewage treatment works will be retained in operation
until the proposed sewage disposal arrangements have been
completed, when a new interceptor running from Colaba north-
wards to Lovegrove will be constructed to convey all flows
from the zone to the Worli outfall.
Worli Zone
Three new pumping stations will be built and four
existing stations uprated, and new pumping mains laid to
direct flows to the existing Dadar and Lovegrove treatment
works, which will continue in operation until completion of
the proposed Worli outfall.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Mahim Zone
Major works would be necessary to direct the sewage
flows of the zone, and sludge flows from Marve and Chembur
zones to the headworks at Bandra. Structural modification
and uprating of four existing plus two new stations would
service the extended conveyance systems. New pumping mains
and trunk sewers will be required in the southern part of
the zone. The project will include structural modifications
and uprating at four proposed pumping stations.
Marve Zone
Two major interceptors would serve the proposed treatment
works with a new pumping station, pumping main and sewers at
Versova and trunk sewers between Goregaon and Shimpoli. A
pumping main will be laid for conveyance of sludge from the
treatment works to the Mahim outfall. Project works would be
the construction of a new pumping station and laying of trunk
sewers at Shimpoli, with the uprating of Versova pumpJ£ig station.
Chembur Zone
A new pumping station would be built at Bhandup after
1976/77 to handle sewage flows from an area immediately to
the north. As part of the project, an interceptor will be
constructed to deal with flows draining from new collecting
sewers in areas south of Bhandup. The pumping station at
Ghatkopar treatment works will be uprated. Sewerage in the
Trombay area will be completed, and sewerage in other areas
laid as necessary to keep pace with development including
new sewers and pumping station to serve the oil refineries
in the Trombay areas.  The flow will be pumped to a r-*
collecting sewer laid through southern Chembur to the head
of a proposed new box culvert sewer. Pumping mains will be
laid for conveyance of sludge from the treatment works to
the Mahim outfall.
(c) Sewage treatment and Disposal
19.       The sewage would be either biologically treated or after screening,
directly discharged to sea in long outfalls. The treated sewage can be
discharged in the coastal or tidal waters without any significant harmful
effects.
20.       In an overall study of the sewerage system and the disposal works
it is alleged to be economical to limit the number of long outlEall mains
to two and to construct three separated treatment works. It has also been
suggested that the treated sewage could be reused for irrigation purposes.
These statements have yet to be tested. New treatment works are proposed



ANNEX 4
Page 7
to be constructed at Malad, Bhandup and Chembur. Treatment works at Dadar
will be uprated and extended as part of the project, and itS effluent
conveyed to the Worli outfall.  Submarine outfalls are pr-    s   to be
constructed for Worli and Malabar.  Sludge from the treatrnn- worlk-s in
Y.arve and Cheabur zones would be pumped to Mahim outfall.  'Hdse-rks for
outfall mains would be located at Lovegrove (Worli) and Bandra (KgMI.v)
and vould comprise screening and pumping facilities, and v             grit
basins.
21.       It is proposed that submarine outfalls would be constructed using
thick-walled reinforced concrete pipe sections, laid in a prepared trench
in the sea bed.  Each pipeline will be approximately 4.8 km long, excluding
the diffuser sections and would be sized to carry the 1991 flow. The Worli
pipeline will be 3 m 0 with a diffuser section 1.6 km lorg, and the Mlahim
pi-2eline 2.8 m 0 with a 1.1 km diffuser. A hydrographic sur:y which was
carried out under the consultants' direction by the National Institute of
Oceanography indicates that the disposal of screened sewage through
s-utbmzrine outfalls of the lengths proposed will not adversely affect the
rn,cine environment nor cause pollution of the inshore waters.
April 12, 1973






ANNEX h
INDIA
BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1972-73 TO 1980-81 DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
ANNUAL INVESTMENT AT 1972-73 PRICES l/
CRORES OF RUPEES                                                                                       MILLION US.$
SEWERAGE INVESTMENT                                                                     70
WATER INVESTMENT                                   TOTAL ANNUAL INVESTMENT IF
rn--u  SECOND                                            SEWAGE DISPOSAL INCLUDED IN
50  -    _  _ " SECOND AND SUBSEQUENT                                SECOND AND SUBSEQUENT PROJECTS
PROJECTS                    ,*                                                          60
FIRST PROJECT                    "0
40
40           ~~~TOTAL              +                                             .,5
ANNUAL INVESTMENT                                                               .
WITHOUT SEWAGE DISPOSAL     '                                                        ',
30
30
20
10FIRST PROJECT                      \                                                    20
10  \        1                              >        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECOND AND S S E U N 1
CRORES OF RUPEES       ANNUAL INVESTMENTS-SEWERAGEN PILLIO TS.
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
10~ ONGOING WOR                      R9C           9         SR  LEs  SSi              2       h       1
1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81
-.------- IV                           V                                       VI
GOI FIVE-YEAR
PLAN PERIODS
CRORES OF RUPEES                       ANNUAL INVESTMENTS - WATER SUPPLY                                MILLION US.$
-40
30-
30
20-
10 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~2
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
CRORES OF RUPEES               ANNUAL INVESTMENTS - SEWERAGE                                 MLINU.
30                                                                                                         40
-30
20-
-20
SEOD AND
10       ONGOING                                                 SUSQET PROJECTS
10
PIRST PROJECT
0
1972/73     1973/74    1974/75    1975/76   1976/77    1977/78      1978/79    1979/80   '1980/81
11Incldes design and censtructien supe,visin costs, import and
harsdlmnq dlties hn,. applicable. ned phy~-l contingencies.
Wend Bank - 7141 IRI



I



0        101          0       0                                                          02                                                               0.
8                                                                 a                                                                                       8
NO     -                  ooj         8                                                        0                                                                0.
8                oo                          0                    0                    -<a                  0                      0                  $02
02               00002      0.0              ID                   -                    -                   0                      0
ba     020.         OH                                                  0W0202I102    a
H                                      a          0100       o.-0.        00      OH           002            Il-OIlS                                          02  o
[H                                                                                            OH  P.O              HO             o020p.   '00$W   INOOH0O  It
.             8                              H00                               8                                       HOOOR         HO
0              OH 0               Ha
2.
-               a            a                                         a              0    0                                                 0.t0   H
02               00
00  C                  H                           aPI                    0    a       o-  0.0
8        a      84           a                  8                                     8       8                           a                          a
0      0                           0.0                aO-             a'e   -
0.       a       a                                                                     a       o                           .,-               aoo      4       a - 0
S oo 0 0000
o                                                     8
S                                                           a       H                 0
8                                     11
0      0                 02                  0.                                                          8                                                a
b H 02 0881' H
88       a      a             8   01                                                                              02        01                                     0
8
8                                                                                                           H
02                            01                   8
8
0                              02                                                                              a
CI                                                                             H                                                                                      0.
a                    OIl                                                                                      02                                                                                     02
8801
to     a
@8 818
.3     010.
02  H                      02                          H                                                          -H                H                      02                   A     H               02
-H  01  020I'jo   opO'    01 0   01 00101       01   01  H 000    01 0000000              01 HOHHOOI-             0010001H01  0H0000101HH    H 0 H0101.001 0                     I    0           03  a
01  H0     H-H       a 01   02-00101       02    0  01010200   02-.I0-H0101a01       01010101010102-H       '-O  010201H,'   0101020100000201    10 H.H-IHO02CO            I    0           010   5
8    a
01                         0                                                                                       02               H                                                 o
01  01 0101 a 01001       01 0    02 H  01            02  0   00    01 00000H0            0 0  00000               0  a   oc        01 aOOa-0101HH    Cl  OOOHOO                      0
-H 01   002 10010          0101   02 H  -H            -H  0   H H   010101010201 01H      010010200101            02  -H  H01       0 00100101010100-H   01  -HH0.H0202         II0                      a
02  0                                                 0                                   H                       02                0                      0                          01                 02
H  01  8-0028  CSO        '81 0   02 HH          01    0  0000    0101000000              0 H00102001H            0  01 0001H    02000010102020102    02 000101020'H             I    0
01  0    01 01 H 0-H      -1 02  -H 020101      02   -H  H 010101   H 001001 02H01       0 0101020101 0101       01  01 02 021-'   0101-001010101 010201   01 00202010100            II
'N
0  0  H       01           02                         01                                  H                       01                H                      0
01  a  HO01  H 002         01 0    0100-H        H    01  0 00H       -000000010          0 OOHOOOH               01  02 C)OPH    01 00000101010H          Co 001-00102-OH
02 01 o¶H p- 00101               0101002       01   01  0101020   0101010101-00102       H 0020101020102         0  01 0010-0    0201010011-0201001   01 H0201002010
H                      01                                                                                      0                H
810      H 01   1021       00 0   01 H  01            01  0   00    P00000010             01 0  OCOHO              02  0   00       01 00000-00100    02  0001000               8    0
02  a  1001 - H 1101      0'    0202  Co            01  0   HO    01 0101-H02P.-H01     0201  0202010202        01  01   H-H      001010101010100102   02  010101-00201
01  01  H   H      H       8                          0                                  H                       02                01                    01       H
02  0    01 0    010    - 01 0   00002           *    01  0000    01 HOOHO 000100001 0-HO                         H  01 000H        0201000-00201.001    010001002010
0  01   0200   010        01 02  01010-0        01   02 01 0101H    002-0010102010        01  020101010-H         01  H 0202001    0200201-0020100101    010101020100101              8
8002
8801           H           01                         H                                   H                       01                0                      0                                                            V
0          010    02             01   01  H           01                   0                       H   P             01                    01
0  01                      0101   10             0    0201            02                  H                       01  01            0                      02                         8






ANNEX 6
INDIA
BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA                                     Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal Year                                     at end of Quarter
and Quarter                                        US$ Million
1973/74
December 31, 1973                                        7.25
March 31, 1974                                          10.15
June 30, 1974                                           13.55
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                      17.40
December 31, 1974                                       21.40
March 31, 1975                                          25.55
June 30, 1975                                           29.25
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                      32.45
December 31, 1975                                       35.85
March 31, 1976                                          38.35
June 30, 1976                                           40.15
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                      42.20
December 31, 1976                                       43.90
March 31, 1977                                          45.70
June 30, 1977                                           47.50
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                      49.80
December 31, 1977                                       52.50
March 31, 1978                                          53.75
June 30, 1978                                           55.00
Assumption: That the credit becomes effective not later
than September 1, 1973.
April 12, 1973






ANNEX 7
Page 1
]:NDIA
BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Population and Demand Projections
Population Projections
1.        The consultants used graphical techniques on twenty-two regions
in the city, suburbs and areas to be served along the transmission conduits
(en-route areas).  Account was taken of the preliminary retu^.s of the
1971 census, and the earlier demographic work of the Metropolitan Regional
Planning Board (MRPB), the Demographic Training and Research Center and
the Regional Transport and Survey Unit. Attached Graph 7113 shows the
historical and projected population of Greater Bombay and enroute areas--the
areas served by BMC as forecast for this report, and the MRPB high and low
forecasts--as adjusted by the 1971 census data made available subsequent to
the MRPB forecast. Also shown is the population of the Bombay Metropolitan
Region, (encompassing urban and rural areas served by BMC and other authorities),
the annual growth rates for the various areas, and, for comparative purposes,
similar curves for the Calcutta Metropolitan Region. The following table
gives the population forecast in areas to be supplied by BMC.
POPULATION
Year
1971    1976     1981      1986      1991
---------------millions----------------
Greater Bombay               5.9      6.9      7.8       8.6      9.3
En Route Areas               0.5      0.7      0.8       1.0      1.2
Total                   6.4     7.6       8.6      9.6      10.5
Demand Projections
2.        The consultant's demand projections take cognizance of the various
factors which affect gross demand: population, housing quality, industrial
and miscellaneous needs, and leakage; all adjusted to take account of the
fact that water is supplied to consumers for part only of the day, and
that supplies, although improving, will continue to be intermittent for many
years. The consultant's projections were considered during appraisal to
be optimistic and as a result their projections were revised during appraisal
with final result given in Table 1. The methodology employed by the
consultants in making demand projections was as set out below:



ANNEX 7
Page 2
3.        Present domestic demand was determined for each of 15 areas by
grouping the population by housing type, assigning empirical per capita
consumption figures to each group (e.g., 115 1/cd for inhabitants of
chawls), calculating a weighted-average per-capita consumption and
increasing this by a factor to obtain per-capita demand if a 24-hour supply at
adequate pressure were established. Future domestic per-capita demand was
extrapolated ward-by-ward at growth rates oL 1% to 2% per year depending
upon probable development trends. Finally, total domestic demand under
conditions of 24-hour supply was obtained by multiplying the average per-
capita daily demand by the ward population served. Forecast domestic
demand under 24-hour supply conditions is 170 1/cd and 186 1/cd in 1976 and
1981 rising from 158 1/cd in 1971. The total volume demanded by a 30%
population increase rises from 10.9 m3/sec in 1971 to 16.6 m3/sec in 1981.
4.        Four categories were considered for industrial demand:  primary
industries of high water consumption such as the port, dairy and railroad;
smaller industries; service industries (laundries, restaurants, markets);
and special industries: shops, office buildings, educational institutions
and international hotels.
5.        The primary industries are under a quota system which restricts
consumption, hence their true demand has not been fully expressed. The
consultants' investigation indicates that an immediate increase in consumption
of 10%, and a subsequent annual increase of 2% in the city, and 5% in the
suburbs, would essentially fulfill the primary industries demand but it is
considered unlikely that the 10% will now be immediately available, following
failure of the 1972 monsoon.
6.        Smaller and service industries do not fall under the quota system,
and growth in demand is assumed to be a direct function of population
since these industries are generally small establishments employing local
labor. Demand by this group is assumed to be equivalent to 22 1/cd in the
city and 10 1/cd in the suburbs. The demand of special industries is not
directly related to population numbers.  Present special industries
demand is estimated at 0.34 m3/sec and expected to increase at 0.03 m /sec
annually.
7.        Demand for miscellaneous uses, those not failing under the
categories of domestic or industrial (e.g., mains flushing and fire-fighting),
has been taken as 2% of the total of domestic and industrial demand. On
this basis, industrial and miscellaneous demands are estimated to increase
from 4.6 m3/sec in 1971 to 5.9 m3/sec in 1976 and 6.8 m3/sec in 1981.
8.        En-route supplies.  BMC supplies bulk water to the municipalities
of Bhiwandi and Thana, from its transmission mains. This water is retailed
by the municipalities to domestic consumers. Part of the industrial needs
of Thana are supplied by the state-owned Metropolitan Industrial Development
Corporation (MIDC). It has been assumed that BMC will supply from 50 to 60%
of these municipalities demands (0.8 m3/sec in both 1976 and 1981) with MIDC
making up the balance.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
9.        Leakage.  The following table shows present and forecast leakage
under two assumptions:
1971    1976    1981
Leakage under 24-hour                           3
supply conditions                          -m /sec------
(i)  Unchanged at 42% gross supply    11.0    13.8    16.9
(ii) Reduced progressively to 25%
of gross supply by 1981          11.0    10.3     7.8
10.       Demand under intermittent supply.  Given the probable demand
and leakage values under condition of 24-hour service derived above,
reduction factors are applied to recognize clctual conditions:  partial-day
service in which the consumer draws less water than he desires, and where
leakage is substantially lowered because the mains are empty for a portion
of the day. The reduction factor and final demand values are determined by:
(i) industrial and miscellaneous demands are assumed to be fully supplied
after 1976; (ii) domestic demands are assumed to be curtailed in accordance
with an empirically derived 1/ functional relationship between percent of
demand satisfied and hours of daily service; and (iii) leakage losses are
assumed to be reduced in direct proportion to reduced hours of supply.
11.       Since both domestic consumption and leakage losses are functions
of supply hours, successive approximations are employed to arrive at the
final breakdown between the consuming categories.
12.       It is not possible to draw accurate conclusions on the effect of
BMC pricing policies under Bombay's conditions of suppressed demand; where
precise domestic consumers' and industrial consumptions cannot be
determined because (i) 43% of supplies are unmetered, (ii) the use of private
pumps and storage systems may enable certain consumers to obtain their full
demand, while many others have less than 50% of their requirements; and (iii)
certain forms of storage encourage wastage e.g. water remaining unconsumed
when supplies are reinstated, is often thrown away, to enable containers
to be refilled. Nevertheless, current prices are low, and do not encourage
economy at any consumer level.
13.       43% of supplies are charged by taxation, regardlefs:> of consumption.
This pricing policy, particularly at the low rates of less _t-kn US$0.10 for
1,000 gallons (estimated), does nothing to discourage wastage, and wastage
would not be reduced, even if the price were markedly increased.  The present
system of regulated supply minimizes wastage and it is questionable whether
BMC could effectively price a 24-hour supply with such a large volume of
consumers who cannot be regulated by the price mechanism, and for which
there can be no early engineering solution (Annex 2, paragraph 15).
April 12, 1973
1/   From observations in Hong Kong, where similar conditions of restricted
supply existed.






INDIA
BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND ALLOCATION AMONG USERS
UNDER PROJECTED INTEEMITTENT SUPPLY CONDITIONS
Fiscal Year -      1971-72  1972-73  1973-74  1974-75  1975-76  1976-77  1977-78  1978-79  1979-80  1980-81
< - - - - - - - - - - -  _    MT/ Sec - -    - - - - _- - - - - -_      - - -- - - - - >
Available Supply           13.6    13.5    15.5    17.2    17.4    18.2    22.1    23.4    23.5    23.7
Supplied
Metered
Enroute              o.6      o.6      0.7      0.7      0.8      0.8      0.8      0.8     o.8       0.8
Industrial           2.2      2.2      2.5      2.7      2.8      2.9      3.3      3.6      3.8      3.8
Domestic             5.0      4.9      5.5      6.o      6.2      6.3      6.8      7.5      7.6      7.8
Unmetered
Domestic             3.0      3.0      3.5      4.1      4.1      4.1      5.1      5.4      5.5      5.5
Compounded and
Free               0.7      0.7      0.8      1.0      1.0      1.3      1.6      1.8      1.9      1.9
Leakage                   2.1      2.1      2.5      2.7      2.5      2.8     4.5      4.3      3.9      3.9
Percent Domestic Demand
Satisfied           71       67       75       79       77       75       81      84       82       79
Hours of Service Per Day    4.3      4.0      5.9      5.4      5.0     5.2      8.3      8.9      8.5      8.1
Leakage!._            %   16        16       17       16      15       16       21       19       16       16
a  Net of supply to En Route Areas and in the supply hours shown                                                   1-3
i.e. not under 24 hours supply condition.                                                                        A
March 28, 1973






INDIA
BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
POPULATION
HISTORICAL AND FORECAST
Population
(million)       Total Bombay Metropolitan Region and Greater Bombay                                                 Population     Greater Bombay and Comparison with Calcutta Metropolitan District
(millions)
Population                                                                                                    13r      Population                                                                    13
1960-1990                                                            /                                             12  1900-1990                                                                    12
14                                                                        /      14                                  11                                                                         *           11
/                                ~~~~                                                                         ~ ~~~~~10  *  *- 10
9                                                                            **      9
13                                                                               13                                   8                                                                         *-.         8
6                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
12 _                                                                                                                                                                                                        5' 12
3                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
kI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22
11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
11 _                        ot-                        ,'.'b ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11                                     i                                    
i                         @                                          1900                         Year                          1970            1990
10                                            /                                 10
9                                                                               9 s . 9                                      Population Growth Rate
/          .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~1900-1990
a              ~~~~Calcatta   x
Bombay Metropolitan    7                                                                                             raerBma
Planning Board                                                                                                   Greate Bombayl
Upper and Lower                                          (5   4
6a_  . tXi;   N  e Forecast   9  n  I    /\                 Bomibay Metropolitan Region
6                                                                              9                                 S/.
0
/~~                                                                          ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -*  - -- - --  - -- ;|
Note: Curves A & B adopted for this report                                        2 ,
Actual-         Forecast
4       _       _       _     _       _       _       _        _       _       4                                     0                                  II
1960                     1970                      1980                      1990                                    1900            1920             1940             1960    1970   1980   1990
Year                                                                                                                     Year






ANNEX 8
INDIA-BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF BOMBAY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT AS AT MARCH 1975
.........    .   . .......   .....                                                               I
<                                    < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
EL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............






INDIA - BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
/1
EXTRACTS FROM LATEST BALANCE SHEETS IJBLISHED BY BOMBAY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
DEMONSTRATING FISCAL POSITION OF WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SERVICES
/2
IN RELATION TO ALL MUNICIPAL SERVICES
(in Rs. Crores)
As at March 31                1967           1968             1969             1970-                 As at March 31               1967             1968             1969            1970
Water         &   Total              t &&WaterotlTotalater &   Total Water &   Total Water &   Total
SSewerage         ewerage        lMeweragTl Sewerage &sTo                                            Sewerage         Sewerage        Sewerage         Sewerage
Liabilities and Surpluses               __                                            _lAssets ana Outlay___l
Capital, Reserves, Special Funds                                                                                   /3
and Surplus                                                                                           Fixed Assets-
Capital contributed:                                                                                   ssets at cost, including
by government                 -       3.28      -       3.39      -      3.45    -       3.46   Work-in-Progress                  69.77  193.88   79.56  215.20   85.04  232.44  89.86   247.31
by others                    1.02     3.93    1.02      3.93     1.04   3.70   1.04      3.70 (Percentage of water supply
Sinking funds                       12.28    39.21   11.99    41.44    13.10  45.86  15.17    49.59  and sewerage assets to               (36%)            (37%)            (37%)           (36%)
Provision for depreciation and                                                                         total BMC assets)
renewals                            -      20.33      -      20.79      _    21.83    -       22.99
Reserves                              _ -          -        -         -           .77    -       1.47 Stocks                                .o6    5.78      .04    5.80      .03    5.87      04     5.12
Special and trust funds              2.96    27.16    3.28    30.48      3.58  33.79   3.88    37.11
Surplus                             29.93    67.o8   33.39    70.84    34.92  74.45  35.33    80.50 Investments                           26.87   72.46   30.79   81.88   30.44   87.51  30.86    85.25
46.19   160.99   49.68   170.87    52.64 183.85  55.42   198.82 Advances from internal funds            .30   12.17      .27   11.75      .26     .87    .26       .79
Less: assets written off             1.55     2.46    i.65      2.67     1.661  2.88   1.76       3.14   (contra)
Sub-Total            44.64   158.53   48.03   168.20    50.98 180.97  53.66   195.68 Current Assets
-      Accounts receivable                   -      3.46      -      5.52      -      6.03    -        5.25
Loans                                                                                                 Payments in advance                   -        .54     -        .77     -       .08    -         .14
Deposits                             .17      .78     .16      .77     .36     .92    .45      1.89
Government                           4.45    12.24    3.96    11.72      3.70  11.43   3.43    11. 6 Cash and bank deposits               (1.68)  14.57   (4.31)  10.36   (2.78) 17.96   4.89    34.92
Public                              19.13    60. 41   22.56    67.12    25.53  75.95  34.78    89.86              Sub-Total               (1.51) 19.35   (4.15) 17.42   (2.42) 24.99   5.34    42.20
Internal                            23.24    44.83   27.30    53.43    27.35  59.01 28.18    58.451___                                                    _______
46.82   117.48   53.82   132.27    56.58 146.47  66.39   159.37
Advances from internal funds                                                                          Advance and Suspense Items
(contra)                            .30    12.17      .27    11.75      .26    .87    .26       .79 Work-in-progress and revenue
Sub-Total            47.12   129.65   54.09   144.02    56.84 147.3   66.65   160.16   expenditure in suspense                .79    7.41      .71    7.37      .78    8.83    .43     8.40
_______  ________                 _______________   Amounts  recoverable   from
AccountssPayableethird parties                                                                        .40    1.20      .45    1.6       .51    1.51    .59      1.75
Accounts Payable                                                                                                  Sub-Total                1.19    8.61    1.16    9.02    1.29   10.34   1.02    10.15
Creditors and accrued charges         .60     5.32      .64     6.49       .86   7.6     .74     8.52
Unexpended budget grants              .94     5.12      .89     5.62      1.04   6.6     .85     4.98
Deposits                             3.38    13.63    4.02    16.74       4. 92  19.4L   5.48    21.481
Sub-Total             4.92    24.07    5.55    28.85       6.821 33. 7    7.07    34.98
GRAND TOTAL             96.68   312 25  107.67   341.07   114.67o  127.38   390.82                  GRAND TOtLAL              96.68  312.25  107.67  341.07  114.64  362.02 127.38   390.82
Water and Sewerage -                  _I __ _
Percentage of Total               (31%)            (32%)              (32%)          (33M)
NOTESt A   These balance sheets are extracted from EC accounts for all services, which are prepared on a cash
(not accruals) basis, and are therefore not strictly comparable with the balance sheets appearing in
the financial projections in Annex 15. The volume of work necessary to make the conversion was not
considered justified for this appraisal.
A   Including Bombay Electricity Supply and Transport Undertaking (BEST).
1D  Depreciation is not provided for all assets by BMC, nor is interest during construction accounted for.
The assets values for water supply and sewerage are therefore not comparable with the values shown in
the financial projections.
A   Balance sheets on an accruals basis from 1971 onwards appear in Annex 14.
April 9. 1973






ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
BOMGAY WATER SUPPLY IAND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Water Supply and S     eerage Tariffs
A.   Water Supply
(a) Current Charging System
1.        BMC authority to charge for water supplies by property taxes,
metered consumption or on an estimated consumption basis are contained
in the BMC Act 1888. These charges are annually specified in Water
Charges Rules, with meter rent and repair charges. BMC power to charge
by meter measurement under the Act was challenged in 1954 in the Bombay
High Court, which held, inter alia, because universal metering could not
be introduced overnight, the simultaneous existence of metered and unmetered
areas evidenced only a practical difficulty and not an intenti.on to discri-
minate; but there should be a relationship between the rate charged and the
cost of providing a water supply. In the light of this judgment, BMC's
present policy of price discrimination by use may be open to challenge in
the Courts.
(b) Present Tariff Structure
2.        The tariff structure is composed of three basic elements:  (i)
a once-only connection charge by size and length of connection, which is
capitalized as consumer contributions; (ii) an annual meter rental by
meter size; (iii) a charge for water supplied, assessed either by meter
measurement at various user rates; or by a tax on property value in
unmetered properties or by agreement in advance of a sum to cover water
supply for a specified period. (This is called a "compounded charge" and
applies to temporary connections or certain commercial uses).
3.        The proportions of annual revenue contributed by the various
parts of the tariff for 1971/72 were:



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Rs Lakhs            %
Water tax based on property values                115               11
Metered consumption:
-    domestic                            315                 30
-    industrial & commercial             411                 38
-    en route supplies                    68      794         6    74
Compounded charges                                131               12
1,040               97
Meter rentals                                      12                1
Miscellaneous no-tariff revenue                    25                2
1,077              100
(d) Bombay Tariff Structure and Development
4.        The water charges tariff has been haphazardly developed over many
years. BMC has no defined policy on the relationship of water supply
development and tariffs. The only policies have been to recover any increases
necessary from industrial consumers and maintain the domestic metered water
charge and water tax unchanged for as long as possible, resulting in an
artificially low domestic rate. Until April 1971, when a 17.5% increase
raised the domestic metered tariff to Rs. 0.2 per m3 (equivalent to US$0.12
per 1,000 Imperial gallons), this rate had remained unchanged since 1959.
Water tax currently remains unchanged since the latter date at 4.5% of
property values. A 1971/72 sample survey showed that tax yielded an under-
recovery of 15% compared to metered charges for similar properties. No
general property revaluation has taken place oince 1952 with consequent wide
variations in the tax base.
B.   Sewerage
(a) Current Charging System
5.        Halalkhore tax, charged at 3.5% of property values is the only
direct charge system for recovery of expenses relating to sewage and
disposal of human wastes. The revenues from this tax do not cover the cost
of emptying privies, cesspools and septic tanks, and the residual cost thereof
plus sewerage and sewage treatment expenses have to be recovered by the BMC
general tax on property. There is no specific allocation of general tax
for this service, the yields of both taxes are merged by BMC to meet the costs
of these services, together with the other municipal services administered
by BMC and chargeable to general tax. Estimates show that the Halalkhore tax
should have been raised by up to 2%o on property values (i.e. increase of
60%) to meet the costs of sewerage services and halalkhore from 1966/67
onwards.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
(b) Present Charging Problems
6.        Halalkhore tax is a charge on all properties (except for a few
premises where fixed collection charges are levied). The failure to revalue
property for the past 20 years has had a marked effect on these revenues and
has resulted in a disparity of charging between old and new premises.
C.   Proposed Tariff Structures
7r        BMC has indicated its willingness to introduce new forms of taxation
and charges. Because of the many unknown factors in the system, e.g. per
capita consumption, losses, intermittent supplies, effect of storage tanks,
positive dates of new supplies introduction from GOM; BMC has not been asked
to give specific tariff commitments beyond maintaining the 1973-74 water
supply tariff. Instead, BMC have given assurances that it will raise revenues
specified in paragraph 7.15 of the appraisal report. As part of the account-
ing and financial consulting services there will be an examination of the
structure and levels of tariffs which will be necessary to achieve these
commitments (para 7.03 of appraisal report).
(a) Water Supply
8.        Table 1 sets out the tariff which BMC has introduced from April 1,
1973. The financial effects are demonstrated in the financial projections
(Annexes 12, 13 and 14). The charging levels have been significantly
increased for 1973/74, water tax by 55% and metered charges by an average
of 25%. This means that the discrimination against industry is increased
(para 7.14 of appraisal report).
9.        There is only one significant change from the 1972/73 tariff.
Provision has been made in the proposed legislation for a water benefit tax,
to provide for charging all properties with the costs of maintaining assets
having surplus capacity which do not yield immediate benefi  :o the system
and to individual consumers. This is similar to the sewerage benefit tax
proposed (see para 11 (iv)), but for 1973/74 BMC do not propose to levy any
charge.
(b) Sewerage
10.       BMC intends to institute the new sewerage tariff from April 1, 1974,
under provisions of the BMC(A) Act 1973, which should become effective before
the 1974/75 budgetary procedures commence in October 1973. It is expected
that BMC wiU collect the new sewerage taxes and charges with the water
taxes and charges, but the actual collection system has yet to be determined.
The revenue projections in the Income Statements in Annex 12 reflect the
introduction of sewerage charges from April 1, 1974, to pro.-ide a revenue
of approximately 50% of the water tariff, with a first increase in charges
from 1976/77.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
11.       The tariff is likely to be based on the following:
(i)  Halalkhore tax, which will produce a diminishing r-evenue
will be directly charged on those premises which azre not
sewered, and for which the service is necessary to empty
their various disposal systems. This tax will probably be
replaced after several years by a fixed service charge,
but the projections demonstrate only the probable recovery
necessary through 1980/81, using a tax base to recover costs.
(ii) premises which are not metered for water supplies, i.e.
those which pay a water tax will pay a sewerage tax as a
percentage of property value to meet their share of sewerage
cost;
(iii) premises which are subject to metered water supply -vill incur
a sewerage charge based on the metered water consSumption;
(iv) a sewerage benefit tax to be charged on all premises in
Greater Bombay based on the property values, to recover the
costs of (a) surplus capacity of installed assets which do
not yield immediate or direct benefit to those charged by
metered charges or sewerage tax; and (b) facilities to be
provided, e.g. latrines.
April 12, 1973



ANNEX 10
Table 1
Page 1
INDIA
BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY i2ND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Water Supply and Sewerage Department
Extract from Tariffs
Water Supply
In operation from April 1, 1973
Rs
Metered Supplies - per 10 m3
Domestic, education, coaching and residential            2.50
premises with shops not requiring water for
trade. Religious and charitable establishment,
welfare premises, dispensaries, metered stand-
pipes, Government and Railways.
Domestic with lawns exceeding 25 m , swimming            5.00
pools, fountains, sports grounds, food prepara-
tion premises, public utility undertakings,
private hospitals and nursing homes.
Offices, banks, laundries, water-consuming               8.00
industries, restaurants, mills, electricity
and gas production plants, stables, markets
garages and service stations, hotels and lodging
houses, Port Trust.
The foregoing are subject to a minimum charge by              3.00
meter size 15 mm to 75 mm                             to   30.00
En-route Supplies (Metered) - per 10 m3
Industries                                               7.50
Municipalities (Thana and Bhiwandi)                      2.50
Non-Metered Supplies
Water tax at 7% of property value or compounded
charges based on the following:



ANNEX 10
Table 1
Page 2
Temporary premises - per day                         11.00
to 300.00
Offices, banks, restaurants, lodging                 18.00
houses per month - per tap                     to   25.00
Charitable establishments - per year                 15.00
Other premises per month - per tap                    7.00
Meter Charges
Rentals 25 mm to 500 mm - per month                      3.00
to 170.00
Testing 15 mm to over 200 mm - per meter                15.00
(including removing and refitting)                to  123.00
All Premises
Water Benefit Tax - No charge.
Sewerage
In operation from April 1, 1973
(As for previous years)
Halakhore tax on all premises in Greater
Bombay - 3-1/2% of property value.
April 12, 1973



ANNEX 11
Page 1
INDIA
BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Notes on Preparation of Financial Projections
INCOME STATEMENTS
1.        The revenues shown in the Income Statements in Annex 12 represent
the forecast income which would be necessary to meet the requirements of
the financial covenant to be entered into by BMC (para 7.15 of appraisal
report).
(a) Water Supply
2.        Revenue forecasts are based on the tariff for taxes. metered
charges and meter rents which became effective from April 1, 1973, and
include for an average 33% increase from 1976/77.
3.        The metered income is based on the forecast supply allocations
in Annex 7, Table 1, while taxation income is based on an estimated 1973/74
property value base of Rs 25.6 crores. This base has been conservatively
estimated to expand to Rs 27 crores by 1980/81, due to the BMC policy of
not revising property valuations and the intention to extend metering to
certain non-metered areas during this period.
(b) Sewerage
4.        The actual tariff to operate from April 1, 1974 will be approved
by BMC as part of the 1974/75 budget. The forecasts are based on the tariff
structure shown in Annex 10, para 11, and it has been assumed that the yield
will be approximately 50% of the water revenues, plus a sewer benefit tax
on all properties in Greater Bombay. Halalkhore tax will be continued only
for premises which receive the service (up to March 31, 1974 it is chargeable
on all properties). As for water revenues, a 33% increase has been forecast
from 1976/77.
Operating Costs
(a) General
5.        The expenditure estimates have been compiled after an examination
of each cost element in relation to the introduction of new facilities. The
forecasts were prepared using 1972/73 pay scales, prices and contract rates.
An allowance for inflation was then made as a separate step as described in
Paragraphs 25 to 27.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
(b) Employees
6.        The 1971/72 establishment of the Hydraulic Engineers' Department
and the sewerage and sewage disposal sections of the City Engineer's Depart-
ment were analized into grades of employees, and the effect of the proposed
works on the numbers employed in the various grades was assessed in relation
to the project timetable. New posts, and grade revisions, arising from the
organization structure proposed were taken into account. The resulting
numbers were then evaluated at the average rates of basic pay, dearness
allowance and other allowances prevailing at April 1972. Provident fund
charges, pensions, gratuities, compassionate allowances and medical aid
were taken as pro rata to payroll according to the bases of the BMC contri-
butions to these funds.
(c) Other Operating Costs
7.        Maintenance expenses were divided between employees, materials and
outside contract work. The labor element is covered under Paragraph 3; the
other elements were then forecast in relation to the facilities in use for
each year of the forecast period, and included in Materials.
8.        Power and fuel costs were separately calculated for the requirements
of the new pumping stations to be commissioned during the forecast period,
evaluated at the prices effective in 1972/73, plus inflation.
9.        Costs of chemicals for water supply were separately calculated
according to the year-by-year volumes of water to be treated, evaluated
at 1972/73 chemicals' prices, plus inflation. The sewage treatruint chemicals
requirement is too small to demonstrate in a Table having Rs crozres as the
base unit.
(d) Administration and Training
10.       Overheads based on the distributed cost of BMC departments have
been restricted to the apportioned share of assessment and collection. The
basis on which this charge is currently allocated to water and sewerage has
been tested and found to be reasonable. The other central departments'
costs presently distributed in the BMC accounts - mainly supervision,
administration and accounting - have been replaced in the forecasts by
specific estimates based on the likely staffing of the Long Range Planning
Division, the Common Services and the Finance and Administration Sections.
Printing, stationery and building occupancy costs were calculated pro rata
to the trend of supervisory staff numbers. Training costs are included as
provisional estimates only, based on a 1973//4 proiected annual cost of Rs 8
lakhs per annum from 1973/74.
(e) Payments to GOM for Bhatsai Water
11.       The annual charge used in forecasts is Rs 82.71 lakhs, Rs 28.83
lakhs less than demanded by GOM. GON has indicated that the likely cost of
the Bhatsai headworks will be Rs 1413.85 lakhs of which the share apportioned



ANNEX 11
Page 3
(see Para 9) tp BMC for water supply will be Rs 1239.37 lakhs and to GOM for
irrigation will be Rs 174.48 lakhs. There will be an annual fixed charge to
BMC to include the interest on capital, depreciation and running charges
that will be incurred by the government. GOM indicates depreciation and
running costs will represent respectively 1% and 2% of the capital costs.
For the financial forecasts an interest rate of 6% has been assumed, making
a total annual charge of 9%. This represents Rs 111.54 lakhs per annum on
the capital cost apportioned to BMC.
12.       The allocation of capital costs to BMC which is proposed by GOM
assumes that the only costs chargeable to irrigation are the incremental
ones of storing extra water. The basis does nor recognize that provision
of irrigation water could not be made from the additional works alone, but
depends on a shared use of the works already planned for water supply. It
is therefore not merely the incremental expenditure which is attributable
to irrigation but also a share of the expenditure on water supply as well.
The GOM proposal cannot therefore be considered to be either a scientific
or an equitable method of allocation, and has therefore not been accepted
by BMC, who intend to press for a more reasonable settlement.
13.       Insufficient data is at present available for a cost apportionment
to be made properly. Use of any of the recognized methods would require
resolution of several questions, which are at present unsettled. In the
absence of this information the figures of daily releases ft  m Bhatsai
Stage I have been used as a basis for assessing an annual charge to BMC.
These figures indicate a division between water supply and irrigation in
the ratio 65:35, during first stage use of Bhatsai reservoir. Applying
this ratio to the gross capital costs, and taking a rate of 9%, the annual
charge to BMC would be Rs 82.71 lakhs. This figure has been used in the
forecasts. However, IDA will be allowed to review and comment on any
proposed draft agreement for new or existing bulk water supplies to BMC.
(f) Depreciation
14.       Depreciation was computed on a straight line basis from the
capital expenditure forecasts, and written down values of existing assets.
Assets were classified for depreciation purposes according to the estimated
lives shown below:



ANNEX 11
Page 4
Class               Estimated Life (years)
Dams                                              100
Tunnels                                            75
Plant and machinery (mainly pumping
and treatment plant) - water and
sewerage                                         20
Remaining water works, including
reservoirs and all pipelines                     50
Sewers                                             40
Remaining sewerage works                           50
Water meters                                        7
Motor vehicles                                      5
Fences, Paths and Compounds                        15
Depreciation is charged on assets in commission on the first day of each
financial year.
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditure
(a) Upper Vaitarna Headworks (included as 1972/73 ongoing works
in the Financing Plan)
15.       On advice from GOM, BMC has provided in its estimates a total of
Rs 403 lakhs (including physical and price contingencies) as a contribution
to the cost of the headworks being constructed by GOM, of which Rs 70 lakhs
have so far been paid. This figure is based on a provisional calculation
by GOM. The balance outstanding of Rs 333 lakhs has been taken into the
capital expenditure estimates in 1973/74.
(b) IDA Project Works
16.       The planning and design of the water supply augmentation schemes
are in general further advanced than those for sewerage. The content of
the proposed works is known in greater detail. The capital expenditure
estimates in respect of water supply are therefore more precise than those
in rc:pect of sewerage. The cost of materials, labor and contract payments
for the various works were estimated as accurately as possible at 1972/73
prices. A detailed description of how they have been built up is set out
in the consultants' reports for water supply and for sewerage.
17.       Physical and price contingencies have been applied as indicated in
Chapter IV, Paragraph 4.05 of the Main Report. Design and supervision charges
were computed in two stages - 2% design for two years prior to work commencing,
and 5-1/2% including design and supervision during construction.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
18.       Interest during construction was applied by adding 6% (average
borrowing rate) to the inflated values obtained from the proceding steps
(paras 16 and 17), in respect of those works involving a construction period
greater than one year.
Accounts Receivable
19.       The accounts receivable analysis for the years 1966W67 to 1969/70
revealed a significantly higher proportion of unpaid tax bills in Division
II and III than in Division I. BMC admit that in the past there has been a
lack of coordination between billing and collection activities in the Suburbs,
and a lack of timely follow-up of unpaid bills. Additionally, BMC have made
a study to determine the optimum billing frequencies for various classes of
water consumers, as a result of which monthly billing of high volume consumers
is not being introduced. On the bases of these considerations BMC expect a
reduction in the length of time for which bills are outstanding. The pro-
portion outstanding should reach the level of about 25% at the end of 1972/73,
which has been used as a basis for forecasts.
Inventories
20.       Provision has been made in the estimates for a build up of stocks
during the forecast period, recognizing the increased holdings of spares
and maintenance supplies required to support the expansion of capital works.
The required inventories were calculated in detail for sewerage, because of
the substantial increase in mechanical and electrical plant, and the con-
sequent increase in stocks of spares.
Debt Service
(a) Loans Funds
21.       The new legislation will provide for the new water supply and
sewerage department to establish a separate loans fund, to  e1ace the
existing complex and time-consuming sinking fund systems ctu^rntly in use
in BMC. The operation of the loans fund is designed to simiplify all
borrowing and repayment procedures, and has been used in many municipal
systems in recent years e.g. Nairobi City. Balances on all sinking funds
will be transferred to the new loans fund and be used for internal invest-
ments, external sinking fund investments will be realized and reinvested
internally. Proceeds of all future borrowings will be included in the loans
fund, which will annually forecast its net borrowing requirements, after
taking into account all internal repayments by borrowing accounts to the
fund, and income from other sources e.g. pension funds. All interest payable
by the department will be paid by the loans fund, which will charge borrow-
ing accounts annually a net average rate of interest, after taking account of
any temporary investment income or similar interest-bearing deposits. There
will be no "earmarking" of loans or bonds as at present, and -he fund out-
goings will represent the annual debt service of the department.



ANNEX 11
Page 6
(b) Existing Debt
22.       With the exception of Rs 344 lakhs of GOM maturity loans, all
existing debt is market maturity bonds, which accounts for the varying
pattern of amortization shown in Annex 13.
(c) New Debt
23.       The proceeds of the IDA credit Rs 42.3 crores (US$55 million) will
be on-lent to BMC by COM at 6-1/4% per annum for 25 years including 4 years'
grace period, on an annuity repayment basis, commencing 1977/78. The re-
maining borrowing necessary will be obtained by BMC from market maturity
bonds estimated at 6% per annum, repayable in 12 years.
24.       The use of the loans fund will facilitate the "roll-over" process
for 12 years bond monies raised by BMC in 1973-78, to enable the project
elements to be financed up to 24 years. GOM have given assurances (paragraph
7.12 of appraisal report) that sufficient loans will be made available to BMC
to enable the project to be financed over 20-25 years. This will require the
refinancing of 12-year bonds purchased during the project period maturing
in 1985-90, and for which BMC may not have sufficient funds at that time to
effect redemptions. Provisions will be made for repayments to the loans fund
of annual sums based on asset lives up to 24 years, and the extent to which
such contributions do not meet 12 year redemptions, refinancinci will be
required and is guaranteed by GOM. The annual contributions to the loans
fund, (as for sinking funds), will be sufficient to repay the loans at 24
years. However, if BMC has surplus revenues at dates of the first 12-year
maturities, they would utilize these funds to repay outstanding principal,
and minimize refinancing and interest charges.
General Assumptions
(a) Inflation
25.       The estimates compiled at 1972 prices have been adjusted to
take account of monetary inflation by selective use of four tables of
inflation index numbers.  These were: Table 1 (machinery and naanufacturers),
2 (industrial raw materials) and 3 (power and fuel), which were derived by
extrapolation of the All-India indices for the last 10 years published by
the GOI Ministry of Industrial Development. In Table 2 the effects on prices
of the Indo/Pakistan war were smoothed. Table 4 (labor) was similarly
derived from the indices of consumer prices (Bombay) published by the Bureau
of Economics and Statistics, GOM.
26.       For works involving a mixture of labor and materials, such as
civil construction contracts, an average table was used. The overall effect
of all these tables on the estimates of capital costs was to yield a fore-
cast effective average rate of inflation of about 5% compounded over the
period from 1971/72 to 1980/81.



ANINEX 1 1
Page 7
27.       Pay and allowances of BMC employees have been uplifted separately
as follows:
(i) basic pay has been uplifted by 5% per annum to represent
the normal within-grade progession of the average employee;
(ii) the uplift to dearness allowance, which is linked to the
index of consumer prices (Bombay) described above, has been
calculated by applying to the extrapolation of the consumer
prices series the BMC dearness allowance formula of Rs 2.50
per month increase in dearness allowance for each 2.25 points
rise in the index (new series) for employees receiving less
than Rs 1.000 per month in basic pay. Dearness allowance
represents about 65% of the take-home pay of such employees;
(iii) other allowances, such as travel, have been forecast using
the percentage to basic pay derived from the 1970/71 actuals.
(b) Other Assumptions
28.       With the exception of inflation, all other economic conditions
likely to affect the cost of the project, such as duties, taxes and availa-
bility of labor and materials, have been assumed constant.
April 12, 1973






C                                   C               -           C
'a                                            a,
Ca,                             a'     Ca  C        aa      a,  CCII           C  a,          a,            a
C    a,a,Ha,   Ha,   a,
C       a,                     C'      CC       a,  C    a,CH                   a,          C                -<
4,                              4,        Ca    0                          a,
a                 a,                               a,                                 
Cd-CC   0                                                                                                           a,
ga,a.  a,
a,                a,    C       C       a                              C                 t'                                                a,
aaa,a,
a,-a,.                 a        'a.                            ,-                   -C
Ca,   a,   Ca    'a        a,              a,                                                Ca,
Cl         aa,a,            a,.                                'a                                                                              C
a                       C               C                       4,     C                 4,
C      a       C                       C       a,                                                 Ca
'C
C          C      C-               C-       -       -          441        -.       Ca,   C   0    '41    0    a,   '41    -    -c       a,
CC         C-      C                        .a,  H  Ca,        CO         -41  CO  CC'CaH<a,C                                  C         4,
C          an                       C  -  CO                   C-  -      -4                                                                0  -
C                CC      C                   04        C.   CC            H          CC  0   Ca,           Ca,        a,
Ca,              C       a,                 C-         -a       C         C  H       RI  -  -a              C         'a
Ca        -a0     Ca               Ca,           H  CC          C'        -a,   C   CHHCHC4CC-                                 C         a,
H          C-     an               C-       H                   C          -a                                                                   CO
CO              CO       co      C           C          -a      -a        Ca, 0      0  C  (44              C       '4,
-4,     a,,    Ca,          C         C-   4a,H       '  HH          COHO                  '4,
C-                an               --                                                                                          H         C
C       4,              C"           C  Ca          4,0        C-   H   -a,    0  H  0  0  CC  0  H                         'a
an  an                   C    . H Ca    -J                     H-aC-   C-HHH,C-a                                  C    'a
C          C-     Ca,              -a      '04                 Ca, -a'     C                                                   C           CCI
CO              CC       0       0          CC         C-a   C  .44       H  0       0  0  H                        Ha,
-a,             'a,      C-      C-         an         4   CC-           H-a        4-4CC
H      C                                                                                                            H       'C                  Ca
CO               C       H   C  H           '4,        C-  C'  C-    0  0  0  C  H  C                       C-
CO         H       -a               -       C-  C-  C           -a         CCCCCa,H.a,HH.a,  CO  C                             C
H       a,  CC  Ca         0          C-   H             0  CC      CC  H                  C                   -a      'C
H       C   H  -a         C          H                  C  H           H  C               C-
C   Ca H                   CO   CC4C-HOCC0HCa,                                             C
4,     -4               C-      0   H  H            an        C-   0  C-         a,  a,     C  C  C-               0
Ca,        H       C                C       C   H  C            Ca        C-  C-  H          Ca,HCa,4CaH                               a
C Ca
C-                 H                                                                                                           H       'C
C-         Ca,     H                C       H   H  C-          CO              H  C-         C  O  0  0  H  H                C         C
C           C  -a,    a-
an         C       C                C                           C-         H                                                    C          a    a,
Ca  C   H           C        -a,                C           H                                                   C  H        ' 4,  C
H      C-               C-       C)  CC  H          an         C-  -a  C-         Ca, -a     -a  -a  H              -a     'C
an         H       H                C        CO  C- C,          C          C   C   (I        C.  44      C- H  CO               H
C-                                                              H                                                              H       'C
H                                                                                                                   C
H          C   H                    C   C- C C-                 H          H C- CHCOHHHCa                                      C-  Ca
Ca                                  C       C   H  -a          C-          H        H    C  C-  H  H   4,  C  CO               C
an  C-     01                       H       C-                  C          H                                                   CC'
C-                                  C-      C   -a  H           Ca         H    H  C             H       C  C-  C              .4,     A
H       H   C-  -a         C-              H  C-        an     a,,  Ca  C  -a              H
t NNY






INDIA - BOMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
EMC WATER SUPPLY ARD SEWERAGE DEPAR¶IRENT
SOURCES AND APPLTCATTON OF FUODS STATEMENTS 1970-71 through 1980-81
(in R.. Crores)
FINANCIAI, YEAR ENDING MARCH 31,                      1971             1972             1973             1974             1975             1976             1977              1978             1979             1980             1981
Water  Sewerage  Water  Sewerge Water  Serge Wate   Sewege Water  Sewerage Water  Sewerage Water  Sewerage Wter  Se age Water  Sewerage Water  Sewerage Water  Sewerage
Cg-AeIoAlctual--------e  c e- Estimated -,                                                                           Forecast'
Actual
Sources of Funds
Net Operstiog Income                                  5.9    (0,4)      7.1    (0.6)    5.7    (0.5)    9.1    (0.6)    9.4         5.2     9.1      5.5    12.3      7.4    11.8      8.3    12.9       8.1    13.4      8.2    13.4      7.7
DeFreciation                                          0.9     0.2       0.9      0.3     1.7      0.3     1.9      0.3     2.3      0.5     2.6      o.6      3.0     0.8      4.6     1.0      4.8      1.7     5.0      2.2      5.2     3.1
6.8    (0.2)      8.0    (0.3)    7.4    (0.2)   11.0    (0.3)   11.7        5.7    11.7      6.i    15.3       8.2    i6.4      9.3    17.7      9.8    18.4    10.4    i8.6    10.8
Cooclesers' Contributions                             0.1      -         -       -       0.1       -       -        -      0.1       -       -               0.1                -               0.1              0.1              0.1
EMC Special Funds Investment                          0.1      _        0.1     0.2      0.2      0.3     0.2      0.3     0.2      0.3     0.2      0.3     0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.3      0.2     0.3      0.2     0.3      0.3
Decrease in Investmets                                1.1       -       1.3      0.3      -       0.3      -       0.2      -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -
Increase in Public Deposits                           0.3       -       0.3      0.1     CA        -      0.4       -      0,4       -      0.5       -      0.5      0.1      0.5     0.1      o.6      0.1     o.6      0.1     o.6      0.1
Iscrease in Accounts Payable                          0.3     0.1       0.1      -       o.4     0.3      0.5      o.4     0.2      o.6     0.4      0.7     0.7      0.9     1.0      0.7      0.2     o.8      0.3       -      0.5       -
.usds for  evelopment Progre6
GOM orast                                            -       -         -        -       -        -      6.5       -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       - 
QM L.oam (IDA Credit)                                -                                                  5.0       -     10.0       -      9.0      3.0     3.0      8.3       _      4.0       -
Bond Issues                                         2.4     i.4       3.6     1.8      5.0     1.0    13.0       7.0     9.0      1.0     1.0    12.0       -       7.7       -     16.0       -     15.0       -      10.0    10.0       -
Total Sources                                    11.1     1.3      13.4     2.1    13.5      1.7    36.6      7.6    31.6       7.6    22.8    22.1    19.8    25.4    18.1    30.3    18.9    25.9    19.7    20.7    30.1    11.2
Application of Funds
Developsest Program Expendit-re
Pre-IDA Project WorKs                               5.4     o.8       5.4     0.5      6.3     o.6      5.5      o.8     0.4      0.3     0.1       -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -
SDA Project                                          -       _                 _       6.o     1.3    19.4       5.6    27.2      8.5    23.6      9.9     8.4      7.4     o.6      1.2       -
Secend cod Suhbeq-eet Projects                                    -                     -        -      0.2      0.5     0.2      0.5     2.5      4.3     4.1    13.1      6.o    24.8       4.2    24.2    10,5    12.8    18.i        8.2
Isterest doriog coastruction                        0.2      -        0.2       -      0.1       -      0.5      0.1     1.2      0.2     2.0      o.4     0.1      0.9     0.1      o.8       -       1.3     0.1      0.3     0.5       -
Sob-Total                                         5.6     o.8       5.6     0.5    12.4      1.9    25.6       7.0    29.0      9.5    28.2    14.6    12.6    21.4       6.7    26.8       4,2    25.5    i0.6    13.1    18.6        8.2
Debt Service
Istereot Paid
Loans and Bondo raised to March 31, 1970          1.8     0.2       1.7     0.2      1.7     0.2      1.7      0.2     i.6      0.1     1.6      0.1     1.5      0.1     1.5      0.1      i.4     0.1      1.1      0.1     o.8      0.1
01M Loan (IDA Credit)                              -       -         -       -        -       -       0.2       -      o.6       _.     1.2      0.1     1.6      o.4     1.7      0.8      1.6     0.9      1,6      0.9     1.6      o.8
Road Issoes after 4.1 1970                        0.1      -        0.3     0.1      0.5     0.2      1.0      0.5     1.7      0.7     2.0      1.1     2.0      1.7      2.0     2.4      2.0      j.4     2.0      4.1     2.3      4.4
Total Interest                                  1.9     0.2       2.0     0.3      2.2     o.4      2.9     0.7      3.9     o.8      4.8     1.3      5.1      2.2     5.2      3,.      5.0     4.4      4.7      5.1     4.7      5.3
Less: Capitaltied                               0.2      -        0.2      -       0.1      -       0.5     0.1      1.2     0.2      2.0     o.4      0.1      0.9     0.1      o.8       -      1.3      0.1     0.3      0.5       -
Total Interest Chargeable                     1.7     0.2       1.8     0.3      2.1     0.4      2.4     o.6      2.7     o.6      2.8     0.9      5.0      1.3     5.1      2.5      5.0     3.1      4.6     4.8      4.2      5.3
Lcan Repayments
Lo-an  and Roads rei. Ito eMarch 31, 1970         1.5     0.3       2.4     0.5      o.6     0.3      0.7      0.1     1.3      o.4     0.7      0.7     2.5      0.2     1.0      o.6      3.2     0.3      6.3       -      4.4       -
SUM Loss (IDA Credit)/_ -                                  -         -       -                _        _                _        _       _        _       _ -             o.6      0.4      0.7     o.4      0.7      0.4     o.8      0.4
Totl Loan Repayments                            1.5     0.3       2.4     0.5      o.6     0.3      0.7     0.1      1.3     0.4      0.7     0.7      2.5      0.2     1.6      1.0      3.9     0.7      7.0     0.4      5.2      O. 4
Increase in Tove-tories                                -       -         -        -       -        -      0.1      0.1      -        -       -        -      0.1      0.1       -       -        -        -      0.1      0.1      -        -
Increase in Aeccunts Receivable                        -       -        0.1      -       0.3       -      0.9       -      0.1      1.4     0.1      0.1     1.2      o.6      0.7     0.3      0.7      0.2     0.1      0.2     0.1      0.1
Total Application                               8.8     1.3       9.9     1.3    15.4      2.6    29.7      7.8    33.1    11.9    31.8    16.3    21.4    23.6    i4.i    30.6    13.8    29.5    22.4    18.6    28.1    14.o
Net Cash Generated                                      2.3       -       3.5      0.8    (1.9)   (0.9)    b.9    (0.2)   (1.5)    4.3)   (9.0)    5.8    (1.6)    1.8           4.0    (0.3)    5.1    (3.6)   (0.7)    2.1        2.0    (2.8)
Balasees - At Beginning of Year                         6.4    (1.6)      8.7    (1.6)   12.2    (0.8)   10.3    (1.7)   17.2    (1.9)   15.7    (6.2)    6.7    (O.4)    5.1            1.4      9.1      1.1    14.2      2.5    11.5    (o.4)
- At End of Year                              8.7    (1.6)    12.2    (0.8)   10.3    (1.7)   17.2    (1.9)   15.7    (6.2)    6.7    (0.4)    5.1            1.4      9.1      1.1    14.2    (2.5)   11.5       o.4    13.5    (3.2)
GOI/GOM FINANCIAL AIND ECONOMIC            1969/70  CZ              IV-                                                                                                                                                         PhIth
PLAN PERIODS                                                P                                                                                              511am N I-                                                   plan
SUMMARY FOR COMBINED SERVICES
Sources of Fonds
Net Operating Incose                                      5.5                6.5             5.2              8.5             14.6               14.6            19.7             20.1             21.0             21.6              21.1
Depreciation                                              1.1                1.2             2.0              2.2               2.8               3.2             3.8              5.6              6.5              7.2               8.3
Loans asd Bonds                                           3.8                5.4              6.o            25.0              20.0              25.0            19.0             20.0             15.0             10.0              10.0
Other                                                     2.0                2.4             2.0              8.5              1.8                2.1             2.7              2.7              2.3               i.6              1.9
Total So-rea                                       i2.4               15.5            15.2             44.2             39.2              44.9            45.2              48.4             44.8             40.4             41.3
Application
Deselopsest Progrem.Expenditures                          6.4                6.1             14.3            32.6              38.5              42.8            34.0             33.5             29.7              23.7             26.8
Debt Service: Interest                                    1.9                2.1             2.5              3.0               3.3               3.7             6.3              7.6              8.1               9.4              9.5
Loan Repa3aents                            1.8                2.9             0.9               0.8              1.7               1.4             2.7              2.6              4.6               7.4              5.6
Other                                                      -                 0.1             0.3              1.1               1.5              0.2              2.0              1.0              0.9              0.5               0.2
Total Application                                  10.1               11.2            18.o             37.5             45.0              48,1            45.0              44.7             43.3             41.0             42.1
Net Cash Generation                                         2.3                4.3            (2.8)              6.7             (5.8)             (3.2)            0.2              3.7              1.5              (0,6)            (0.8)
Palanees - At -eginning of Year                             4.8                7.1             ii.4              8.6             15.3               9.5             6.3              6.5             10.2              11.7             11.1
At Ead of Year                                   7.1               11.4             8.6             15.3              9.5               6.3             6.5              10.2             11.7             11.1             10.3
/ 014 will os-lead the IDA credit proceeds to EMC fur 25 years with
4 years period of grace; repayments commenoing 1977/78.
April 6, 1973






ANNEX 14
INDIA - BCMBAY WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
BMC WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT
Balance Sheets 1970-71 through 1980-81
(in Rs. Crores)
As at March 31                      1971    1972    1973           1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
---Actual-----stiflated       -_____________-______-_- =Forecast -------------------------
ASSETS                                                          Actual
Fixed Assets
Water SupPly
Dams, Buildings, Plant, Equipment   55.4    55.9   104.9               120.1   131.0   148.3   203.1   210.2   216.2   223.6   232.5
Less Accumulated Depreciation           19.2    20.1    21.8            23.7     26.0    28.6      31.6     36.2    41.0    46.0    51.2
Sub-Total                             36.2    35.8    83.1           96.4   105.0   119.7   171.5   174.0   175.2   177.6   181.3
Work in Progress                      37.9    43.0       6.4          16.8    34.9    45.8        3.6      3.2      1.4      4.6    14.3
Sub-Total: Water Supply               74.1    78.8    89.5           113.2   139.9   165.5   175.1   177.2   176.6   182.2   195.6
Sewerage and Sewage Treatment
Structures, Plant, Equipment            11.6    11.6    13.8            18.6    24.4    32.2    44.1    75.2    95.4   129.2   140.5
Less Accumulated Depreciation          2.5      2.8      3.1           3.4      3.9      4.5      5.3      6.3      8.0    10.2    13.3
Sub-Total                              9.1      8.8    10.7          15.2    20.5    27.7    38.8    68.9    87.4   119.0   127.2
Work in Progress                       0.4      0.9      0.6           2.8      6.5    13.3    22.8    18.5    23.8          3.1
Sub-Total: Sewerage &
Sewage Treatment                     9.5      9.7    11.3          18.0    27.0    41.0    61.6    87.4   111.2   122.1   127.2
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                    83.6    88.5   100.8           131.2   166.9   206.5   236.7   264.6   287.8   304.3   322.8
Investments                                 2.1      0.5      0.2             -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Current Assets
Cash                                     7.1    11.4       8.6          15.3      9.5      6.3      6.5    10.2    11.7    11.1    10.3
Inventories                              0.2      0.2       0.2          0.4      0.4      0.4      0.6      0.6      0.6      0.8      0.8
Accounts Receivable                      3.7       3.8     4.1           5.0      6.5      6.7      8.5      9.5    10.4    10.7    10.9
Sub-Total                             11.0    15.4    12.9            20.7    16.4    13.4    15.6    20.3    22.7    22.6    22.0
TOTAL ASSETS                          96.7   104.4   113.9           151.9   183.3   219.9   252.3   284.9   310.5   326.9   344.8
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
DOM Grant                                     -        -        -          6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5
Consumers' Contributions                    1.3      1.3      1.4          1.4      1.5      1.5      1.6      1.6       1.7      1.8      1.9
Accumulated Surplus                        43.9    48.3    51.0           56.5    67.8    78.7    92.1   104.6   117.5   129.7   141.3
Sub-Total - Equity                    45.2    49.6    52.4           64.4    75.8    86.7   100.2   112.7   125.7   138.0   149.7
Departmental Share of BMC
Special Funds                            3.3      3.6      4.1           4.6      5.1      5.6      6.o      6.4      6.9      7.4      d.o
Liabilities
Long-Term Debt
Loans and Bonds to March 31, 1970   36.3    33.4    32.5                31.7    30.0    28.6    25.9    24.3    20.8    14.5    10.1
Bond Issues after April 1, 1970           3.8      9.2    15.2          35.2    45.2    58.2    65.9    81.9    96.9   106.9   116.9
ODM Loan (IDA Credit)                       -        -        _          5.0    15.0    27.0    38.3    41.3    40.2    39.1    37.9
Sub-Total -                           40.1    42.6    47.7            71.9    90.2   113.8   130.1   147.5   157.9   160.5   164.9
Less Current Maturities                2.9      0.9      0.8           1.7      1.4      2.7      2.5      4.,6     7.4      5.6      5.6
Sub-Total - Net Debt Outstanding  37.2    41.7    46.9                70.2    88.8   111.1   127.6   142.9   150.5   154.9   159.3
Current
Accounts Payable                         2.2       2.3      3.0          3.9      4.7      5.8      7.4      9.1    10.1    10.4    10.9
Public Deposits                          5.9      6.3      6.7           7.1      7.5      8.0      8.6      9.2      9.9    10.6    11.3
Current Maturities of Long-Tarm  Debt2±.9         0.9       0.8          1.7      1.4      2.7      2.5      4.6      7.4      5.6      5.6
Sub-Total - Current Liabilities    11.0         9.5    10.5           12.7    13.6    16.5    18.5    22.9         27.4     26.6     27.8
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES          96.7   104.4   113.9          151.9   183.3   219.9   252.3   284.9   310.5   326.9   344.8
GOI/GOM Financial and
Economic Plan Periods             1969/70 --------------IV th---------------- ------------_V th-------                 ------- ------VI th---
Plan Period                              Plan Period                       Plan Period
Debt as Percentage of Long Term
Capitalization                   %        60       63       40            52       58       63       53       52       51       46       44
Debt: Equity Ratio                        46:54   46:54   47:53          52:48   54:46   57:43   56:44   57:43   56:44   54:46   52:48
April 6, 1973






________________                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD  10146
P                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEBRUARY  1973
.4~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~k
9<,  .~~~                                Lake        -~~~     ~          'Gfi'djppar  L'e,toroa jokIe                            D   I 
a                         4poaikIe/               ~              ~               STBMAYWTE                                       UPL     NDSWRAEPRJC
-  /Poargas Luke ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      TrametWok    n    umig   ttin
-.  'ts-.~~~~~~..  p  1 ii  C/pusakl,/           A                                                          I N  0  I A~~~~~~~Ma.   Ppelne
Li~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~unl
in                                         0              U      R~~~~~~~~~~~~oe servoirs Bri  ri.tMIC
ZoneTreatment    ork  hand Pumpin   StationSce.GM
Li                           LIII]  ~~~~~~Zone served  by  BR.n~  W raec upt,SM-DC        DC
-  -                     c)vxnassb/eI-      &M  DC   Industrial  Area
gr'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 CI0CO Area
C-Ird 1.S- nn,                                        /        7Roads
T, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~-    Limit of Greater Bombay
r,P- 510'.                                                                               ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Limit of Bombay  Metropolitan Region,
-    International Raundare,,
\Ctiloniint    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~)              (S.- >                                                                                                                 to)   1  15      20       25      3n
j            S            2             tO~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 51 E
BOMB.,                               M  th ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Jl. L k ~    ~          ~          ~         ~         ~          1                                            t   E
vs                                                                                                                                    .5       9         N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.t BI-  t
BOMBAY  ¾   (.5  5-U/tf/:                                                                                                                                      0           tv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-  
Sh,  1,,k ~      ~       ~       usirarier'                                   7'r~                      Ee             
ivpurr  Aodkra Lake  Wnrk>.~~~~-                                              'VDANt ivOiA            o
S//ou
V  /Stanor      fl-c?                   Alior in     3'                        ,,        i COlA~~
T. P-.     ~           WrkateSonoV                                                                        f
11", 64-", yl ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 05
""P.- by                                                                                                                                          chl.dr.fl..    N                          I LANIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sainas  o  R M AT X Jrii.    ,  JM






_______________________                                                                                                                                                              3RD 10191~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD109
H    N A - -                                          \                                                                     7.    \                                                 t                                              z W , iF ....... J , : 5,, v , :E:: ; i ;: , : EfEB1ARY 19F7
7                                                                    --~~~~~~~~~~
_( T I BE T)                                                              ,' ~                                   __          ~        ~         hn
3 ~90  FIRT  BOMB_AY   WA  ER   SUP,PL    AND    SEWERAGE   PRQJECT
I NO    A   l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"                            11)                 A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HO RS    OF   %-QPFL~Y, j?72
/    30,000                 '~1270,00
- f  '.}    ;   '   0:  ,$'s   ~=~  \ < DEONAR                                   1        3 ".urs aud i pS
V~~                            ~       ~~~~~~~~~ 0/9  No'-supply ' ~                                              -                                                       Baole   3   an 3re     kro;YBa 0'- , 
'v                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60,000  !Puapli-n  Within sSupply Zan'~
Grall  u,bay M nop~Lisif
nt ernal 9flaI  Boundarels
'<MAR O L                                                           L                                                                                      '
1                           >          :       0                                 D A7 N'                                   ~ D~L A  .                   \   o00' a                     0,00
'Xl                                    X< t                       j                                  7;                      <' -- W- g A t/Ag       N                          SS a@X            00'  * BQcdB                                        ' 
1  
0 A O N A D A       
M  D                          4Z~~0            6 
141 109~~~~~~~~~~~7
en~~~~~~~~'i
%:~~~~~~~~~~~iii1   Jr0,






USSR!'A                                            -<                                                                                                                                        IBRD 10147
r'         [           \N: FERARY If3
'9     -                                                         Yrc       F               5'A  T  \\ -'    1 "     : ;:SC,: 5\Trons Thor ::(: :{ :  INl; [MDiA ;:::
Hrl                                                                  INDIA qj%} e1 \\9~_-FLR\ rX, \ff sr\,, ,& : < X _ FlRSt BOMBAY WATE'R: SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
'A  I            Therq         Creek                   FIRST~~~~~WA  !;P
;@AfA                                                      C                     <3mo   :t  '-\   | -1-' \\-                   -.     -     .\ \V,§SATER; 5 DI,S:TRIB3UTIONS 
INSET  -.                                '   N,'   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GV'D
BRAAA/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A4.
LSAL   CARD v                                  -TROMBAY  \  *  R
DA-AR                                          LEV  L'                                                      71-   8-00abs Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    _____ RA6
0 A/                                   '                  R                           VERAVLI        CE   /                    CS                       -    )R#IA  ERIAMALAD VERAVLI HIGH LEVERe ) ___Rb.A FD    L
I-''== "            _                    _                           =                        XI \S- 3ANDFA FA                          , A D IOSLERYES
CLaS   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   A><                                                                                                          fc -, 0'Vl;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S "     '
IV~ ~ BOB\. NF/            I\ /SESAA 'AED                                                                 "'->'A,4 Fvi       'TSN Aa   ,F    1~-¶t4 b      ~ 
-                               9{\ /'                            I4SDDTGS/      M ARET  (        .      &uR .   "'5t =-  B;2t0 J }a; NQE  ";t  +LG ;: :i ' N  ,    ____
- I   ~   ~             /     72  ~~~-ccf¾'IItI]~~~ ""'-,Mqh1m               \jVLE-ET
Nh /i   .    r                                                                ;    -4.                                                         2' NX<r~-jS.'>  %tC  '  ;  ;  :'":i  :Rge   :;  12Y        2\  tA   C!SSt 7;itt tC;: 1{: : 
- "-------------    '-"CN~                                                                             R   9D   ED'
AD ES ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~IE
-A~~~~~~~~~~ R- 0  B;; A  v'~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S-~REAlR'-~'RIN' 
;;y;  -   i'9::t':::-;1 fA  <':;7Z                                                                                                                                                        $ z iNF   .C                        '; ; ,mjldA
itCf3   '   :  ;:    ;;v:  !:..    t-C:. g: -  ;1SS;  :.;;.::\  1;; ;:;: 2cX , t; ;.l l L ii ^ ;0  .: . ;:. f 
-   ;    : ;   re ::1   ; :   ;::F   '                                                                                                      rJ :/  , ,t ,:; .   2.l5i: n  t t ;     : $     ;; :    >    !   : :2 :;; :    5LES:          'd;rlr
_D'  tS  7    :      L,''S;:S!' .;N'fiD.Ci':t D   ',\D    ! C!  :UF! S    :;.:'   ' f; i"L t   D":  D1  .':  52q5'°V5      ,-   '    : S  'ij  0:"S' " ; gn:  I L,NM ES:E;l:;A  E' Re  ,f;  4": ff:






IBRD 10192
r'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                                          N.
5     7I bJ*__   A    ETs~thor  FIRST BOMBAY  WATER  SUPPLY  AND  SEWERAGE  PROJECT
~~~~~n~~~~~~~~N   ~~~~~~~~~~~T~~~~~~~~( ~~~~~~~SEWAGE                                                                                                     C oL  L E CT  ION               AND         DI SFPDS A L            S YSTE  M
!B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bor  I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ HSEIA    P-D
A,oEleo  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TkS.,
TioBe \                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N-w or Uprored P-epi.g Strstim-
>   -.  -. lois,,  <   ~~~~~~~~~~Ty~~  ~~                                   Q~Sewage  Treat~men   Works
/    I  /                                                                                                   1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~  I       ~~~~~~Sewage T-et-one  WoIrks  Evereded
/                   ~~~~~NATIONAL       PARK        ,                                                                                                                                                            edook
A                                                                                                                                                              I o~~~~~~~~~~~~uui~~~~~~~~eou~~~~~~~ATAC-----.----  ewy
7   /¾   /                                                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Greter  Bomkey  M-uncipe1 Limit
5-e    -On,A   Hi I  MNI 
A>  Alt                                    I      -,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l A   
'~~~  /                  IororrAewiloe;,ikX.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y er nIl                                                                         I LOMETERS       ruNt~~~~~~~tOMEER
-N                                                                                                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2i 
CILET
A    R   A   B  /   A  N~~~~~~~~~~



