CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 390 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 8, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 390 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 8, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1973, between INDIA. acting by its President,
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (hereinafter called BMC), BMC has
agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Governor of the State of Maharashtra (hereinafter called Maharashtra),
Maharashtra has agreed inter alia to assist BMC in the carrying out of the said
Project; and
(D)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available uponIthe terms
.       and conditions set forth hereinafter, in the Maharashtra Agreement of even date
herewith between Maharashtra and the Association, and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Association and BMC:
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h); and


﻿4
(c)   paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5.  The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by its President."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Maharashtra" means the State of Maharashtra, acting by its Governor;
(b)   "Act" means the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act, 1888, as
amended from time to time;
(c)   "BMC" means the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay, a
statutory corporation established under the Act;
(d)   "WSSD" means the Water Supply and Sewerage Department of BMC,
established by Order No. MC/IW of the Municipal Commissioner for Greater
Bombay, dated April 2, 1973;
(e)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and BMC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(f)   "Maharashtra Agreement" means the agreement between Maharashtra
and the Association of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time; and
(g)   "Subsidiary Loan Arrangements" means the arrangements referred to
in Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement for the relending of the proceeds of the
Credit by Maharashtra to BMC.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in th. Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-five million United States dollars
($55,000,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to
in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
(b)   When, with respect to any contract for goods described in paragraph
(a) above, the lowest evaluated bid is a Foreign Bid the Borrower shall immediately
grant permission to import the goods covered by the contract, and no reviews
of such permission to import shall be made by the Borrower or by any of its
agencies, and all foreign exchange required therefor shall be promptly made
available. When, with respect to any contract, the lowest evaluated bid is a Domestic
Bid, the Borrower shall (i) promptly upon receipt of the appropriate applications,
issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall be required to implement
the contract; (ii) make available, or cause to be made available, promptly as needed,
all foreign exchange which shall be required therefor; and (iii) with respect to
locally produced materials which are subject to allocation, make, or cause to be
made, allocations of such materials promptly and in such quantities as shall be
requireC for such contract.
(c)   If at any time it becomes evident that any equipment or material
cannot be delivered on or prior to its scheduled delivery date, and that such delay
would adversely affect completion of the Project consistent with Section 2.01 of
the Project Agreement, the Borrower shall promptly take all steps necessary to
permit the procurement of such equipment or material by procedures which shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿6
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February I and August I commencing
August 1, 1983 and ending February 1, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on February 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
Maharashtra and BMC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Maharashtra Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Arrangements all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable Maharashtra and BMC to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to
Maharashtra for relending to BMC under Subsidiary Loan Arrangements to be
entered into between Maharashtra and BMC including, inter alia, the terms and
conditions referred to in Section 2.03 of the Maharashtra Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿7
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by Maharashtra of its obligations under the
Maharashtra Agreement and the performance by BMC of its obligations under the
Project Agreement, the administration, operations, res -irces and expenditures of
WSSD and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of BMC.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, or the performance by Maharashtra and BMC of their obligations
under the Maharashtra Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Arrangements.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the Maharashtra
Agreement and the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in


﻿8
connection with the execution, delive7 or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of the Borower or laws in effec: in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   A default shall occur in performance of any obligation on the part
of Maharashtra under the Maharashtra Agreement.
(b)   A default shall occur in performance of any obligation on the part
of BMC under the Project Agreement.
(c)   BMC or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of WSSD.
(d)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that BMC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or Maharashtra under the Maharashtra Agreement.
A
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice


﻿9
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower, Maharashtra
and BMC; and
(b)   Any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
BMC have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)  The execution and delivery of the Maharashtra Agreement on behalf
of Maharashtra have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary action; and
(c)  The amendments to the Act approved by the BMC and referred to
in BMC Corporation Resolution No. 2476 dated February 8, 1973, have been
enacted and come into force, and the Water and Sewerage Fund and the
Consolidated Loan Fund provided by said amendments have been established in
accordance with the provisions thereof.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, BMC, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of BMC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)  That the Maharashtra Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, Maharashtra, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of Maharashtra in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date October 9, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿10
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under the provisions of
paragraph (d) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement and those of paragraph (b) of
Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint-Secretary or
Director/Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿11
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the      parties hereto, acting  through  their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ E. Gonsalves
Authorized Representatie
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Equipment and                 35,300,000           100% of total
materials procured                                expenditures
by international
competition
II.  Locally manufactured                               100% of local
equipment and materials                           expenditures
procured by local
bidding
(a)  Vehicles                     900,000
(b)  Supply of concrete         2,400,000
and stoneware pipes
(c)  Manufacturing costs        2,000,000
of steel pipes
(d)  Pumping, elec-             2,300,000
trical, treatment
and maintenance
equipment and
materials
III.  Consultants' services,          5,700,000         100% of total
training program and                              expenditures
related equipment
IV.  Unallocated                      6,400,000
TOTAL         55,0000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred
after December 1, 1972 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$3,000,000;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes; and
(c)   expenditures for freight and insurance in the territories of the
Borrower.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above


﻿14
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of local expenditures under Category 11 (b),
(c) or (d) shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of BMC's development plan for water supply and sewerage
services covering the period from 1973 through 1978 and consists of the following
parts:
A.    Water Supply and Distribution System
(i)   Construction of an intake and pumping station at Pise and water
treatment plant of about 5.3 m3/sec capacity at Panjrapur; and
(ii)  Construction of a water treatment plant of about 22 m3/sec
capacity at Bhandup, a pumping station, a master balancing
reservoir, and service reservoirs and provision of transmission
mains and distribution system, electrical and mechanical
equipment, leak detection equipment, instrumentation and
control systems, vehicles and water meters and spare parts for
plant and machinery and water meters.
B.    Sewerage, Sewage Treatment and Disposal Works
Improvement in the extension of the sewerage system by laying about
130 km of sewers and sewage pumping mains; construction of seven
pumping stations; rebuilding of nine existing pumping stations; the
provision of mechanical and electrical equipment and improvements
to existing sewage treatment works; the provision of sewer maintenance
equipment, vehicles and spares; and investigations for sewage treatment
and disposal.
C.    Consulting Services and Training
Strengthening of BMC's water supply and sewerage organization and
improvement of related technical and financial operations through
technical assistance and training.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


