                                                 CONFORMED COPY




                                   CREDIT NUMBER 390 IN




Maharashtra Agreement
    (Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project)




                     BETWEEN




THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA



                        AND




  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATON




               DATED JUNE 8, 1973
I
                                                     CONFORMED COPY




                                      CREDIT NUMBER 390 IN




    Maharashtra Agreement
        (Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project)




                         BETWEEN




    THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA



                            AND




      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATON




                   DATED JUNE 8, 1973
I
                                 MAHARASHTRA AGREEMENT

          AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1973, between THE STATE OF MADHYA
    PRADESH         acting   by its Governor (hereinafter    called Madhya Pradesh)       and
    INTERNATIONAL             DEVELOPMENT       ASSOCIATION       (hereinafter   called   the
    Association).

           WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith
    (hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement) between INDIA,
    acting by its President, (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the
    Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
    currencies equivalent to fifty-five million United States dollars ($55,000,000), on
    the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
    on condition inter alia that Maharashtra agrees to undertake such obligations toward
    the Association as are hereinafter set forth;

          WHEREAS by an agreement of even date between the Association and the
    Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (hereinafter called BMC), BMC has
    agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
    and

          WHEREAS Maharashtra, in consideration of the Association's entering into
    the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
    the obligations hereinafter set forth;

          NOW THEREFORE             the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                          ARTICLE I

                                           Definitions

          Section 1.C 1. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
    otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
    and in the General Conditions (as so defined, ave the respective meanings therein
    set forth.

                                          ARTICLE II

                                      Particular Covenants

          Section 2.01. (a) Maharashtra and the Association shall cooperate fully to
    assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end,
                                         4


Maharashtra and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance
of their respective obligations under the Maharashtra Agreement, the performance
by BMC of its obligations under the Project Agreement, the administration,
operations, resources and expenditures of WSSD and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.

      (b)   Maharashtra shall take all action which shall be necessary on its part
to enable BMC to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Arrangements, and shall not take or permit any of its agencies
to take any action which would prevent or interfere with the performance of any
such obligations of BMC.

      Section 2.02. Maharashtra shall (a) consult with the Borrower and the
Association on the establishment of an appropriate authority responsible for control
and development of the water resources of the Bombay Region and (b) except
as the Borrower, Maharashtra and the Association shall otherwise agree, take
necessary measures to establish such authority by April 1, 1975.

       Section 2.03. Maharashtra shall relend the proceeds of the Credit made
available by the Borrower, to BMC under appropriate arrangements to be entered
into between Maharashtra and BMC. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
such arrangements shall include the following terms:

      (i)          proceeds to be made available for a term of 25 years from the
                   date of the first advance by Maharashtra to BMC, including a
                   grace period of four years;

      (ii)         interest to be charged at the rate of 6.25% per annum, payable
                   semi-annually or annually, on amounts withdrawn and
                   outstanding; and

      (iii)        proceeds to be made available promptly as required to enable
                   BMC to meet expenditures required for the Project.

      Section 2.04. Maharashtra shall cause an audit to be made of the accounts
of WSSD, by independent and competent auditors, in accordance with sound
accounting principles consistently applied, if the audit of the accounts of WSSD
by the Municipal Chief Auditor of BMC is found unsatisfactory by Maharashtra
or the Association.

      Section 2.05. Maharashtra shall make available to BMC, sufficient loan funds
to enable BMC to complete the Project and, except as the Association shall
I

                                              5

    otherwise agree, such loan funds shall be made available to BMC for a period of
    from 20 to 25 years from the date the funds are made available.

          Section 2.06. Maharashtra shall not amend, suspend, or abrogate the Act
    in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of BMC to carry
    out the obligations set forth in the Project Agreement or under the Subsidiary
    Loan Arrangements.


                                       ARTICLE III

                               Effective Date; Termination
                               Cancellation and Suspension

           Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
    upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. If the
    Development Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 10.04 of the
    General Conditions, the Association shall promptly notify Maharashtra of this event
    and, upon the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the
    parties hereunder shall forthwith terminate.

         Section 3.02. This agreement shall terminate and all obligations of
    Maharashtra and the Association hereunder shall cease and determine on the date
    on which the Project Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms.

          Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
    and effect notwithstanding any partial cancellation or suspension under the
    Development Credit Agreement.


                                       ARTICLE IV

                                  Miscellaneous Provisions

           Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
    made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
    by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
    to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
    telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
    to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
    address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
    notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
                                         6

      For Maharashtra:

             The Chief Secretary to the Government
                   of Maharashtra
             Sachivalaya, Bombay
             India

             Cable address:

                   RESTIS
                   Bombay

      For the Association:

            International Development Association
             1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:

                   INDEVAS
                   Washington, D.C.

       Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of Maharashtra, may be taken or executed by a Secretary to the Government of
Maharashtra or such other person or persons as Maharashtra shall designate in
writing.

      Section 4.03. Maharashtra shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature(s) of the person or
persons who will, on behalf of Maharashtra, take any action or execute any
documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by Maharashtra pursuant
to any of the provisions of this Agreement.

     Section 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original and all collectively but one instrument.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
                                          7


in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.




                        FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE GOVERNOR OF
                            THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA



                        By /s/      E. Gonsalves
                                                       Authorized Representative


                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                         By   /s/   I.P.M. Cargill
                                                         Regional Vice President
                                                                            Asia
