Page  1
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER
1920
MAI
Dutch Grant Agreement
(Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit)
 
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Dutch Funds
Provided by The
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated July
14,
1989
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER
1920
MAI
DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July
14,
1989, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the
Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting as Administrator
(the Administrator) of the Dutch Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided by
the Minister for Development Cooperation of the Netherlands
(the Minister).
 
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the assistance of the International
Development Association
(the Association) and the Minister in the financing
of a program of actions, objectives and policies, designed to achieve
structural adjustment of the industry and trade sectors of its economy,
described in a letter from the Borrower to the Association, dated May
24,
1988
(the Program);
 
WHEREAS the Association has granted a Credit for this purpose on the
terms and conditions set forth in Development Credit Agreement Number
1920
MAI, dated September
16, 1988, between the Borrower and the Association (the
Development Credit Agreement);
 
WHEREAS the Minister wishes to make available to the Borrower a sector
adjustment grant in the amount of seven million eight hundred thousand Dutch
guilders
(Dfls. 7,800,000) (the Dutch Grant) to assist the Borrower in
carrying out the Program on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by arrangements, dated December
11, 1986, between the
Minister, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
Association
(the Arrangements), the Minister has requested the Association,
and the Association has agreed, to administer, inter alia, the Dutch Grant
in accordance with the provisions of the Arrangements; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Borrower acknowledges that the financial assistance
extended to the Borrower under this agreement
(the Dutch Grant Agreement)
shall be considered part of the bilateral development aid extended by the
Government of the Netherlands to the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section
1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement, subject,
however, to the following modifications thereof:
 
(a)
the term
"Association", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting as
Administrator of the Dutch Grant pursuant to the Arrangements, except in the
phrase
"
member of the Association
"
in Sections
2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02
(e);
 
(b)
the term
"Development Credit Agreement", whenever used in the
General Conditions, means this Agreement;
(e)
the term
"Credit", whenever used in the General Conditions,
means the Dutch Grant extended to the Borrower under this Agreement;
(d)
the term
"Credit Account", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the account opened by the Administrator on its books, in
the name of the Borrower, to which the amount of the Dutch Grant is
credited;
(e)
Section
2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
 
"the term 'Project' means the goods that may be financed out of
the proceeds of the Dutch Grant pursuant to the provisions of the
Schedule to the Dutch Grant Agreement.";
 
(f)
in Section
6.02, the term "Association" shall also include the
International Development Association acting in its own capacity;
(g)
Section
9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date, or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and
the Administrator, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Administrator a report of such scope and in such detail as the
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
program referred to in the Preamble to the Dutch Grant Agreement, the
performance by the Borrower and the Administrator of their respective
obligations under the Dutch Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Dutch Grant"; and
 
(h)
Sections
3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.06, 6.05,
7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 are deleted.
 
Section
1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, the
Preamble to this Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the terms
"Dutch guilders" and
"f." 
mean the currency of the Netherlands
.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Page  3
Section
2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in an
amount of seven million eight hundred thousand Dutch guilders
(Dfls.
7,800,000).
 
Section
2.02. The amount of the Dutch Grant may be withdrawn from the
Dutch Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Administrator.
 
Section
2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree,
contracts for goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2
to the
Development Credit Agreement which is hereby incorporated into this
Agreement with the same force and effect as if it were fully set forth
herein. It is understood that references to the Association and the Credit
Account in said Schedule are references to the Association acting as
Administrator of the Dutch Grant and the Dutch Grant Account, respectively.
 
(b)
If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in paragraph
(a)
above, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant, and the Administrator may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Administrator under this Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Dutch Grant as, in the Administrator's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant.
 
Section
2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990, or such
later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section
3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Sections
3.01, 3.02, and 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement are hereby
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein. It is understood that all references to the
Association in said Sections are references to the Association acting as
Administrator of the Dutch Grant under this Agreement, and all references
to the Credit and the Credit Account are references to the Dutch Grant and
the Dutch Grant Account, respectively.
 
ARTICLE IV
Representation; Transfer of
Rights and Obligations
Section
4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower shall be the
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the
General Conditions.
 
Section
4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
 
For the Borrower:
 
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe
3
Malawi
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  4
FINANCE
4407
MAI
Lilongwe
For the Association:
 
International Development Association
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098
(ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423
(RCA)
or
64145
(WUI)
 
Section
4.03. In accordance with the Arrangements, the rights and
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to
the Minister.
The Borrower accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the
Administrator to the Borrower to that effect, the Minister shall, ipso
facto, from the date specified in such notice, be substituted in all rights
and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as if the Minister
had been an original party to this Agreement, without any further action or
formality being required on the part of any party and, from such date, the
Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness
Section
5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date
first above written and shall continue in effect until the Dutch Grant has
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their
obligations hereunder.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By
/s/
Robert B. Mbaya
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Dutch Funds
Provided by The
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
By
/s/
Callisto E. Madavo
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE
Page  5
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Dutch Grant
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule,
the proceeds of the Dutch Grant may be withdrawn from the Dutch Grant
Account for expenditures made
(or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to
be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
1
above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
 
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups
or sub-groups or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions
to the SITC, as designated by the Administrator by notice to the Borrower:
 
Group       Subgroup          Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
121
-
Tobacco, unmanufactured tobacco refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
 
525
-
Radioactive and associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718               718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof,
fuel elements
(cartridges), non-
irradiated for nuclear reactors
897                     897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set
gems)
 
971
-
Gold, non-
monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
 
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of the
Development Credit Agreement;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less
than $5,000 equivalent;
 
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any
national or international financing institution or agency, other than the
Association, shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary
purpose or for luxury consumption.
