Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1920 MAI
          (Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 16, 1988
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  16,  1988,  between  REPUBLIC OF
MALAWI (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS: (A) the  Association  has  received  a letter, dated
May 24, 1988, from the  Borrower  describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed  to achieve structural adjustment
of the  industry  and  trade  sectors  of  the  Borrower's economy
(hereinafter  called  the   Program),   declaring  the  Borrower's
commitment  to  the  execution   of  the  Program  and  requesting
assistance from  the  Association  in  the  financing  of urgently
needed imports required during such execution;
     (B)  the Borrower intends  to  request  from Japan, financial
support for the Program in  the  form  of a loan from the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (hereinafter called OECF) in an
amount equivalent to thirty  million  dollars ($30,000,000) on the
terms and conditions  set  forth  in  an  agreement (the OECF Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and OECF;
     (C)  the  Borrower  intends  to   obtain  from  the  European
Page  2
Development Fund (hereinafter called EDF)  a grant (the EDF Grant)
in an amount  of  twelve  million  five  hundred thousand European
Currency Units (ECU 12,500,000) in  support of the Program, on the
terms and conditions  set  forth  in  an  agreement (the EDF Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EDF;
     (D)  the  Borrower  intends   to   obtain  from  the  African
Development Fund (hereinafter called ADF) a loan (the ADF Loan) in
an amount of fifteen million  Units of Account (FUA 15,000,000) in
support of the Program, on  the  terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (the ADF Loan  Agreement)  to be entered into between
the Borrower and ADF;
     (E)  the Borrower intends  to  obtain  from the United States
Agency for International Development  (hereinafter called USAID) a
grant (the USAID Grant) in an  amount of up to twenty-five million
dollars ($25,000,000) in support of  the Program, on the terms and
conditions set forth in  an  agreement (the USAID Grant Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and USAID; and
     (F)  on the basis, inter  alia,  of  the foregoing, the Asso-
ciation has decided to provide,  in  support of the Program, such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in two tranches as
hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section  1.01.   The   "General   Conditions   Applicable  to
Development  Credit   Agreements"   of   the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with  the  modifications  thereof set forth below
(the General  Conditions),  constitute  an  integral  part of this
Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities that
     may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
     the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to  the  Development Credit
     Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
     such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
     Borrower and the Association,  the Borrower shall prepare and
     furnish to the Association  a  report,  of  such scope and in
     such detail as the  Association  shall reasonably request, on
     the execution of the Program  referred  to in the Preamble to
     the Development  Credit  Agreement,  the  performance  by the
     Borrower and the Association  of their respective obligations
     under the Development  Credit  Agreement, and the accomplish-
     ment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
     (c)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the  following  additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means  the  Standard  International Trade Classi-
fication, Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.  3),  published  by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
     (b)  "MK"  and  "Malawi  kwacha"  mean  the  currency  of the
Borrower;
Page  3
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (d)  "RBM" means the Reserve  Bank  of Malawi, the Borrower's
Central Bank, established pursuant  to  the Reserve Bank of Malawi
Act (Cap. 44:02 of the Laws of Malawi).
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to fifty
million   six    hundred    thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 50,600,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Program,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank in the name of  RBM  on  terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into,  and  payments out of, the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1990,
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue:
        (i)   from a date sixty (60)  days  after the date of this
              Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
              on which amounts shall  be withdrawn by the Borrower
              from the Credit Account or cancelled; and
        (ii)  at the  rate  set  as  of  the  June  30 immediately
              preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as
              may be set from time  to time thereafter pursuant to
              paragraph (a) above.  The rate  set as of June 30 in
              each year shall be  applied  as  of the next payment
              date in that year specified  in Section 2.06 of this
              Agreement, except that the  rate  set as of June 30,
              1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid:
          (i)  at such places as  the Association shall reasonably
               request;
         (ii)  without restrictions of any  kind imposed by, or in
               the territory of, the Borrower; and
        (iii)  in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
               purposes of Section 4.02  of the General Conditions
               or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
               may from time  to  time  be  designated or selected
               pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service  charge  at  the  rate  of  three-fourths  of  one percent
(3/4 of 1%)  per  annum  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Page  4
     Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 of each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable  on  each  May  1  and November 1,
commencing  November  1,  1998,  and  ending  May  1,  2028.  Each
installment to and  including  the  installment  payable on May 1,
2008, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever:
          (i)  the Borrower's gross  national  product per capita,
               as  determined  by   the  Association,  shall  have
               exceeded $790 in constant 1985-dollars for five (5)
               consecutive years; and
         (ii)  the Bank shall  consider  the Borrower creditworthy
               for Bank lending,  the  Association may, subsequent
               to the review and approval thereof by the Executive
               Directors of the  Association  and, after their due
               consideration of the  development of the Borrower's
               economy,  modify   the   terms   of   repayment  of
               installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring
               the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
               installment not yet due  until the principal amount
               of  the  Credit  shall  have  been  repaid.  If  so
               requested  by  the  Borrower,  the  Association may
               revise such  modification  to  include,  in lieu of
               some or all of the  increase in the amounts of such
               installments, the payment of  interest at an annual
               rate agreed with  the  Association on the principal
               amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
               time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
               Association, such  revision  shall  not  change the
               grant element  obtained  under  the above-mentioned
               repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. (a) RBM is  designated as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  taking  any  action  required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction on the foregoing,  the
Borrower  hereby  entrusts   RBM   with   responsibility  for  the
preparation of withdrawal  applications  under  the Credit and the
collection of documents and other  evidence to be furnished to the
Association  in  support  of  such  applications.  Such withdrawal
applications shall, to the  extent practicable, be consolidated so
as to apply to withdrawals  of  aggregate amounts of not less than
$50,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a)  The  Borrower  and  the Association shall,
Page  5
from time to time, at the  request of either party, exchange views
on the progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the  Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, for  its  review and comment, a report
on the progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the  Program in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. In order to  assist the Borrower to develop the
credit  guarantee  scheme  and  the  institutional  and regulatory
framework for the  small-scale  sector,  the Borrower shall employ
consultants  whose  qualifications,   experience,  and  terms  and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such  consultants  shall  be   selected  in  accordance  with  the
principles and procedures satisfactory  to  the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with  consistently  maintained  sound  accounting  practices,  the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Account for  each fiscal year, audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
               and in such  detail  as  the Association shall have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain,  until  at   least   one   year  after  the
               Association has received  the  audit report for the
               fiscal year in which  the  last withdrawal from the
               Credit Account  was  made,  all records (contracts,
               orders,  invoices,   bills,   receipts   and  other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
Page  6
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  an event has  occurred  which  shall  make it improbable
that the Program, or a  significant  part thereof, will be carried
out;
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of  any  grant  or  loan  made to the
                    Borrower to  finance  the  Program  shall have
                    been  suspended,  cancelled  or  terminated in
                    whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
                    agreement providing therefor; or
               (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due  and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply,
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association, that:
               (A)  such suspension,  cancellation  or termination
                    is not caused by  the  failure of the Borrower
                    to perform any  of  its obligations under such
                    agreement; and
               (B)  adequate funds for  the  Program are available
                    to the Borrower  from  other  sources on terms
                    and conditions consistent with the obligations
                    of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 4.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the event specified  in  subparagraph  (b) (i) (B) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of sub-
paragraph (ii) of that paragraph.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided  in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of  Finance  of the Borrower is designated
as representative of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
Page  7
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 30049
          Capital City
          Lilongwe 3
          Malawi
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                FINANCE                          4407 MI
                Lilongwe
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                   By /s/ Overton S. Mkandawire
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Goods                    50,420,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(2)  Consultants'                180,000        100%
     services
                              __________
Page  8
          TOTAL               50,600,000
2.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of  the  Credit  may  be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in  respect  of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required during the  execution  of the Program and to
be financed out of such proceeds.
3.   For  the  purposes  of   this  Schedule,  the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures  in  the  currency of any country
other than that of  the  Borrower  for  goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of  paragraphs  1 and 2 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of Category 1 in the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any  successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC,  as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
      112         -                     Alcoholic beverages
      121         -                     Tobacco,   unmanufactured,
                                        tobacco refuse
      122         -                     Tobacco,      manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
      525         -                     Radioactive and associated
                                        materials
      667         -                     Pearls, precious and semi-
                                        precious  stones, unworked
                                        or worked
      718        718.7                  Nuclear    reactors,   and
                                        parts     thereof,    fuel
                                        elements     (cartridges),
                                        non-irradiated for nuclear
                                        reactors
      897        897.3                  Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                        platinum    group   metals
                                        (except watches  and watch
                                        cases) and  goldsmiths' or
                                        silversmiths'        wares
                                        (including set gems)
      971           -                   Gold,         non-monetary
                                        (excluding  gold  ores and
                                        concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in  the  currency  of  the  Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except  that  withdrawals  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR  10,100,000 may be made on account
of payments made for such  expenditures before that date but after
March 1, 1988;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
Page  9
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than  the  Association  shall  have  financed  or  agreed to
finance;
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
     (g)  expenditures  for  items  included  in  any  single SITC
group or sub-group which exceeds, in the aggregate, the equivalent
of $25,000,000.
5.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
entered into to pay amounts to,  or  on the order of, the Borrower
in respect of expenditures to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated to  Category  (1)  in  the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule  after  the aggregate of the proceeds
of the Credit  withdrawn  from  the  Credit  Account and the total
amount of such commitments  shall  have  reached the equivalent of
SDR 25,210,000 unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described  in  Section 3.01 of this Agreement
based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
     (a)  with  the  progress  achieved  by  the  Borrower  in the
carrying out of the Program; and
     (b)  that  the  actions  described  in  Schedule  3  to  this
Agreement have been taken.
6.   If, after the  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 5
above, the Association  shall  have  given  notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and  actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower shall
not have achieved progress  and  taken actions satisfactory to the
Association, then the Association may,  by notice to the Borrower,
cancel  the  unwithdrawn  amount   of   the  Credit  allocated  to
Category (1)  in  the  table  set  forth  in  paragraph  1 of this
Schedule or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                            Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods, estimated to cost the
equivalent of two million dollars ($2,000,000) or more each, shall
be awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures consistent with those  set forth in Sections I and
II of the "Guidelines  for  Procurement  under  IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits", published by  the  Bank  in  May  1985 (the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid.
     Such  advertisements  should  be   placed  in  at  least  one
     newspaper of general  circulation  in  the Borrower's country
     and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a  notice  in   the   United  Nations  publication,
               Development Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical    journal    of    wide    international
               circulation; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
Page  10
               territories, referred  to  in  the Guidelines, that
               are potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56  of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   (a)  Contracts for goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of
less than two million dollars ($2,000,000) each, to be procured by
private entities and contractors shall  be awarded on the basis of
the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
     (b)  Contracts for goods to be  procured by the Borrower, its
political subdivisions  or  state-owned  enterprises, estimated to
cost the equivalent of less  than two million dollars ($2,000,000)
each, may  be  awarded  on  the  basis  of  the normal procurement
procedures of the  purchaser  of  such  goods, and such procedures
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Contracts for commonly traded  commodities  may be awarded on
the basis  of  price  quotations  available  from organized inter-
national commodity markets.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such  contracts,  two  conformed  copies  of  each  such contract,
together with the analysis of  the respective bids and recommenda-
tions for award, a  description  of  the advertising and tendering
procedures followed and such  other information as the Association
shall reasonably request.
5.   With respect to each such contract referred to in paragraph 2
of this Schedule, the  Borrower  shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of  funds  from  the Credit Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may
reasonably request to  support  withdrawal applications in respect
of such contracts.
6.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs  4 and 5 of this
Schedule, where payments under a  contract  are  to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special  Account, the copies of such contracts
or the documentation and  the  information  to be furnished to the
Association,  pursuant  to  the   provisions  of  paragraph  4  or
paragraph 5  of  this  Schedule,  as  the  case  may  be, shall be
furnished to the  Association  as  part  of  the evidence required
under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
7.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs  4, 5 and 6 shall
not apply to contracts  on  account  of  which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from  the  Credit  Account  on the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 3.04 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   The Borrower has:
     (a)  removed the requirement  of  prior  RBM foreign exchange
Page  11
approval for the importation of:
          (i)    the equivalent of  a  further fifty percent (50%)
                 of spare parts and raw materials; and
          (ii)   an appropriate  number  of  intermediate finished
                 goods, satisactory to the Association; and
     (b)  adopted a plan, satisfactory to the Association, for the
total elimination of prior RBM approval on all other imports.
2.   The Borrower has:
     (a)  adopted budgetary measures to reduce the deficit for the
fiscal year 1989/90 to a level acceptable to the Association; and
     (b)  prepared a  rolling  public  investment  program for the
fiscal  years   1989/90   through   1992/93,   acceptable  to  the
Association.
3.   The Borrower has announced  the  subsequent phase of its tax-
reform program, acceptable to the Association.
4.   The Borrower has made revisions to  the RBM Act and adopted a
timetable, acceptable to the Association,  for the revision of its
Banking Act.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and services required
during the execution of the Program  and to be financed out of the
proceeds of  the  Credit,  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (b)  the  term  "Authorized  Allocation"    means  an  amount
equivalent to $15,000,000 to be  withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received satisfactory evidence that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for Eligible
Expenditures.  Each  such  deposit   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account  in the respective equivalent
amounts as shall have  been  justified  by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Page  12
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request,  showing  that  such   payment   was  made  for  Eligible
Expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals  can  be  made  by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit, minus
               the amount  of  any  outstanding special commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Program, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  shall  follow such
procedures as  the  Association  shall  specify  by  notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making payments for
Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:
          (i)  was made for any  expenditure  or in any amount not
               eligible pursuant to paragraph  2 of this Schedule;
               or
         (ii)  was not justified by  the evidence furnished to the
               Association,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon
               notice  from  the  Association,  deposit  into  the
               Special Account (or,  if  the  Association shall so
               request, refund to the Association) an amount equal
               to  the  amount  of  such  payment  or  the portion
               thereof not so  eligible  or  justified. No further
               deposit by the Association into the Special Account
               shall be  made  until  the  Borrower  has made such
               deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
