Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12710-RU
STAFF APPRAISAJ. REPORT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
AGRICCULTURAL REFORN IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (ARIS) PROJECT
MAY 31, 1994
MI CROGRAPH I CS
Report No:         12710 RU
Type: SAR
Agriculture, Industry and Finance Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region
T his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



RUSSIAN FEDERATION - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit of Currency = Ruble (RB)
Exchange Rate: Rubles per US Dollar
Moscow Inter-Bank Foreign Currency Exchange/Foreign Exchange Auction Market (VEB) Rates
Period          End of
Period             Average          Period
1989                 9                 9
1990                19                23
1991                62               169
1992
I  Quarter         177               160
n  Quarter         134               144
III Quarter        178               254
IV Quarter         396               415
1993
I  Quarter         580               684
II Quarter         968             1,060
III Quarter      1,028             1,169
IV Quarter       1,206             1,247
1994
I  Quarter       1,591              1,753
II Quarter'      1,825              1,895
' As of May 24, 1994



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AKKOR:        Association of Peasant Farms and   MOAFCC:   Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Cooperatives of Russia                          Computer Center
ASAL:         Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan   MOT:      Ministry of Telecommunications
ARSRIIMA:   All Russian Scientific and Research  NSA:         National Seed Association
Institute of Innovation and      NSAC:        National Seed Advisory Committee
Marketing in Agriculture         OECD:        Organization for Economic
CEM:          Country Economic Memorandum                        Cooperation and Development
CIS:          Commonwealth of Independent States  PDU:        Project Development Unit
DIFI:         Department of International Finance    PPAR:    Project Performnance and Audit
and Investment                                  Report
EU:           European Union                     RSFSR:       Russian So~viet Federated Socialist
PIAS:         Farmer Information and Advisory                    Republic
Services                         SA:          Special Account
FIST:         Federation of In;.national Seed    SLC:         Russian Committee for Land
Trade                                           Resources
FSU:          Former Soviet Union                                and Land Management
GKI:          State Committee for the            SOE:          Statement of Expenditures
Management of State Property     STF:         Systemic Transformation Facility
IC:           Institute of Cybernetics           TCP:         Technical Cooperation Program
ISTA:         International Seeds Testing        UPOV         Union for Protection of Plant
Association                                     Varietie,
LARIS:        Land Reform Implementation Support  USDA:       US Department of Agriculture
MIS:          Market Information System          USSR:         Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
MOAF:         Ministry of Agriculture and Food   VAT:         Value Added Tax
GLOSSARY
Agroprombank:   Agroindustrial Bank
Base:            A large storage and distribution facility for fresh fruit and vegetables
Centrosoyuz:     The Central Union of Consumer Cooperatives
Gosagroprom:    The State Agroindustrial Committee (an amalgamation of various ministries associated with
the food industry and the State Committee for Procurement)
Goskomstat:      State Statistical Committee
Gosseminspektsia: Russian Seed Inspection Agency
Gossortkomissia:  Russian Seed Registuation Agency
Kolkhoz:         Collective farm
Kray:            A constituent administrative region
Oblast:          A constituent administrative region
Okrugs:          Semi-autonomous area located in a kray or oblast
Rayon:           District - an administrative unit under oblast or kray jurisdiction
Roskhleboprodukt: Russian Grain Procurement Agency
Sovkhoz:         State farm
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pedf ace oftheir
official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.  l



iv
RussuAN FEDERATION
AGRUCULTUIRAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (ARIS) PROJECT
TABLE OF CONE -NTS
Loan and ProJect Summary .................                                                                 vii
I. The Macroeconomic Settig .1
A. Economic Pt formance .1
B. Country Assistance Strategy  ....................................    2
II.  The Agricultural Sector ......................                                                         3
A. Agriculture in the Russian Economy ...............................    3
B. Status of Agricultural Production  .................................    3
C. Food and Agricultural Reforms ..................................    6
D. Status of Agricultural Institutions .................................   10
E. Bank's Lendinig Strategy for Agriculture  .............................   li
F. Rationale for Bank Participation ..................................   12
III.    Bank Experience and Lessons  ....................................   13
A. Market Infrastructure Development  ...............................   13
B. Farmer Information and Advisory Service  ...........................   15
C. Seed Industry Development .16
IV. The Project    ..17
A. Project Objectives .17
B. Project Components .18
C. Market Infrastructure Development .18
D. Farmer Information and Advisory Services .22
E. Seed Industry Development .25
F. Project Development Unit .29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission (October/November 1993) led by Mohinder S. Mudahar (Task
Manager). The report was prepared by the core Bank team of Mohinder S. Mudahar, Ramesh Deshpande, T.V. Sampath
(EC3AI) and S. Janakiram (C). Others who participated in the Bank missions and/or contributed to this report include
George Russell (ACTCO), lonathan Paviuk (LEGEC), S. Balakumar, Charles Morse, John Liakakis, Leon Hesser,
Johan van der Riet, Carol Hoisington, Michael Smedley, Ing Zimmerman, R. G. Kolenbrander, Wesley Kriebel, Paul Hill,
Edward Goldstein, Michael Olson, Mathieu Wagesman, Leonard Henny, Gary Reusche, Walter Migus, Carl Pray
(Consultants). Wayne Ringlien assisted from the Bank's Resident Mission in Moscow. James Goering (EC1AG) and
Jit Srivastava (AGRTN) were the peer reviewers. Claude Blanchi (ECAVP) and Marc Blanc (EC3DR) provided operational
guidance. Michael A. Gould and Russell J. Cheetham are the managing Division Chief and Deparament Director,
respectively, for this operation.



v
V.    Cost Estimates and Financial Aspects    ...........................   30
A. Cost Estimates ...........................  30
B. Financing Plan ...........................  30
C. Special Account ...........................  32
D. Flow of Funds ...........................  33
E. On-Lending Terms ...........................  34
F. Cost Recovery ........................... 35
G. Piocurement ...........................                                    36
H. Disbursement ...........................   38
1. Accounting ...........................                                     39
J. Reporting  .................................  40
K. Auditing .................................    41
VI. Poject Organiation and 7t anagement .41
A. Project Manageement .41
B. Project Implementation .43
C. Implementation Schedule .........................   ...........  45
D. Supervision Plan .........................  46
VII.  Project Benefits and Risks .........................  47
A. Project Benefits .........................  47
B. Economic and Financial Analysis .........        ................ 49
C. Project Beneficiaries .........................  50
D. Environmental Aspects .........................  51
E. Project Risks .........................   51
VID. Agreements and Recommendations .52
A. Project Agreements .52
B. Recommendations .53
Annexes
Annex 1:     Major Laws, Decrees and Resolutions Pertaining to Agricultural Reform  ...... 55
Annex 2:     Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food .................. 60
Annex 3:     Market Infrastructure Development .............................. 65
Annex 4:     Farmer Informations and Advisory Service ......................... 75
Annex 5:     Seed Industry Development ................................... 82
Annex 6:     Criteria for Selection of Participating Private Enterprises ................ 91
Annex 7:     Training Module .      ........................................ 92
Annex 8:     Technical Assistance Module .................................. 98
Annex 9:     Detailed Project and Component Costs ........................... 119
Annex 10:    Procurement Procedures and Arrangements .127
Annex 11:    Accounting and Financial Reporting Procedures .152
Annex 12:    Project Development Unit and Project hnplementation .159
Annex 13:    Agencies Involvee2 in Project hImleentation. .168



vi
Annex 14:    Implementation Plan and Monitoring Targets ......     ................. 173
Annex 15:  Supervision Plan and Schedule .185
Annex 16:  Economic and Financial Analysis .189
Annex 17:    Analysis of Representative Participating Private Enterprises .208
Annex 18:    List of Documents Available in the Project File .218
Maps
IBRD 25149: Russian Federation: Market Infrastructure Development
IBRD 25150: Russian Federation: Farmer Information and Advisory Services
EBRD 25151: Russian Federation: Seed Industry Develorment



vii
RussmAN FEDERATION
AGRicuLTuRAL REFOpm ImPLEmENTATiON SUPPORT (ARIS) PRojECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          The Russian Federation
Beneficiares:      Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MOAF) and participating private seed and
marketing enterprises.
Amownt:             US$240 million equivalent
Terms:             17 years, including 5 years grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
On-lding Terms:   The proceeds of the loan would be channelled in two ways: First, funds to the
government agencies involved in the project would be channelled through the
budgetary process. Second, funds to participating private seed and marketing
enterprises would be on-lent in US dollars by the Government through
commercial banks on an agency basis. The sub-loans would have a repayment
period of 10 years, including 2 years grace. The on-lending interest rate would
be equal to the Bank's standard variable interest rate (the base rate) plus a margin
of 2.5 percent. The Government would bear the default risk and the cross-
currency risk; and the sub-borrowers would bear the foreign exchange risk
between the US dollar and the ruble.
Project Objectives:   The main objectives of the project are: (a) to create and strengthen the most
critical agricultural support services to accelerate the implementation of ongoing
and future agricultural reforms; lb) to build analytical and institutional capacity
to identify, appraise and implement agricultural and agro-business projects by the
private sector on the basis of economic criteria; and (c) to demonstrate the role
that the private sector can play in promoting efficiency in the agro-industrial
sector. The support services would focus on: (i) the creation of an enabling
policy environment for private sector participation in seed and market
development; (ii) establishment of a nationwide market information system; and
(iii) establishment of fanrmer information and advisory services. The role of the
private sector would be demonstrated by selective "pilot" investments in hybrid
corn and sunflower seed enterprises, fruit and vegetable marketing bases and
vegetable storage facilities. The provision of critical support services, the
development of analytical capacity and demonstration of the commercial viability
of participating private enterprises are expected to lay the foundation for an
efficient agricultural sector based on private ownership and market principles.



viii
Projed Deseiption:  The I -oject would support the following components:
(a)    Market infrastructure development consists of the creation of a market
infonnation system 'MIS), pilot investments in market infrastructure and
institutional development. The MIS will be a nation-wide system to collect,
process and disseminate market information on about 50 agricultural commodities
and inputs. The pilot investments will consist of establishing, upgrading and
modernizing marketing enterprises (fruit and vegetable bases, mini-wholesale
markets and vegetable storage facilities). These facilities will be owned and
operated by participating private enterprises. The main focus of this component
is to support infrastructure and institutions to demonstrate the positive role of
private sector in agricultural marketing.
(b)    Farmer information and advisory services (FIAS) consist of information
development, information dissemination and institutional development. It is
designed to meet the increasing demand for critically needed information by
newly emerging private farmners, restructured state and collective farms and agro-
business enterprises. The underlying concept is an approach oriented to user
needs which is multi-source, multi-user, multi-disciplinary and multi-media.
FIAS will provide timely and relevant agronomic, technical, legal, business,
management and en"ironmental information in agriculturally important areas.
(c)    Seed industry development consists of the establishrment of commercially
viable hybrid corn and sunflower seed production and processing units owned
and operated by private enterprises located in selected southern oblasts, krays and
republics and having a comparative advantage in seed production for these crops.
These investments are intended to demonstrate how a commercial seed industry
could be organized in a market environrmient.  It will also support the
establishment of a national policy and institutional framework whic3 is consistent
with accepted international norms.
(d)    In addition, the Project Development Unit (PDU, has been established
within the MOAF to coordinate the overall implementation of the ARIS project
and to develop analytical capacity to prepare future agricultural projects for
financing by international financial institutions.
Benefis:            The project is expected to have substantial direct and indirect financial and
economic benefits for individual enterprises, farmers, consumers and the nation.
The project's potential benefits include enhanced economic incentives, increased
agricultural production (particularly corn and sunflower seeds), farm income,
rural employment, and foreign exchange savings. The project would support
accelerating the pace of reforms which are needed to make the agricultural sector
more efficient based on private ownership and market principles.  The
development of a market information system and alternative agricultural
marketing channels will increase ' ompetition, reduce physical losses, provide
higher quality food at competitive prices and have favorable impact on prices and
market services received by farmers and hence farm income. The development
and dissemination of appropriate and timely information to private farmers,
newly restructured farms and agro-business enterprises will enable them to make
informed business decisions, improve agricultural productivity and actively



ix
participate in the process of agricultural reform. The establishment of a modem
seed industry would increase the availability of quality seed which, in turn,
would result in higher crop yields and foreign exchange savings from reduction
in seed imports and would lay the foundation for a modem seed industry in the
private sector. The project would be an important step towards reforning the
agricultural sector and would train a large number of Russian experts to advise
farmers and develop analytical capacity to prepare and implement future
agricultural projects.
Risks:              The main risk is that the project may face delays in implementation. Factors that
could cause problerns in project implementation include: the current unstable
macroeconomic environment and its possible further deterioration, lack of
political consensus on agricultural reforms, delay in government decision-making
and lack of counterpart funds and trained personnel with experience in
implementing World Bank projects. The maintenance of free markets for the sale
of seeds is critical for the commercial viability of participating private seed
enterprises. As long as these prices are not controlled, domestic seed prices
should adjust with changes in international prices and the exchange rate. which
should enable private investors to obtain an attractive return on their investment.
The review and appraisal of at least the first three sub-projects for each of the
seed and marketing enterprises are expected to reduce potential implementation
risks. The project has introduced necessary measures in the form of legal
covenants, training and technical assistance, and has allocated necessary
resources to minimize these risks. The establishment of a strong PDU, with
appropriate support for procurement, disbursement, accounting, project
management and technical aspects, is also expected to mitigate some of the
potential project risks. The project would be intensively supervised (including
a project launch workshop, annual reviews and a comprehensive mid-term
review) so that appropriate and timely actions are taken to avoid and overcome
implementation problems.
Environment:        The project is expected to have a positive impact on the environmert. The move
toward private farning promoted by this project is expected to foster more
prudent use of land and other natural resources. In addition, public awareness
of agricultural environmental issues will be created through appropriately
designed environmental information collection and dissemination, technical
assistance and training programs. Any en  -onmental concerns related to new
investment sub-projects for the developmt;..L of 'pilot" marketing and seed
enterprises will be addressed during implementation of sub-projects by following
the Bank's and the country's environmental requirements and guidelines. The
feasibility studies for marketing and seed enterprises will include an obligatory
environmental review by concerned government agencies, the adequacy of which
will be verified by the PDU. The Bank review of typical fe2sibility studies will
ensure the adequacy of environmental analyses and suggest improvements, as
necessary. The project has a "B" environmental assessment category.



x
Project Costs
Local   Foreign    Total    Component as
Project Component                                           Percent
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~(S .                  nllion equivalent)       of Totol
Market Infrastructure Development       30.6     60.3      90.9        28.0
Farmer Information and Advisory Services  17.5   37.0      54.5        16.8
Seed Industry Development               25.0     99.3      124.3       38.2
Project Development Unit                 0.5      6.9       7.4        2.3
Physical Contingencies                 3.8      17.3      21.1        6.5
Pr.ce Contingencies                    7.6      19.2      26.8        8.2
Total                                 85.Oa    240.0    325.0        100.0
Percent of Total                      26.2      73.8    100.0
a Of total project costs, about US$10 million are import duties. In addition, payable VAT (about
US$45 million) is not included in the project cost since it is refundable within about one year.
HFinancing Plan
Local  | voreign     Tota    Source as Percent
Financing Source       J      US      n                1    of Total
TBRD                              -        240.0      240.0          73.8
Federal Government               40.2        -       408             12.4
Participating Private Enterprises  44.8               44.8           13.8
[  Total                        85.0      240.0      325.0         100.0
Percent of Total                26.2      73.8       100.0
Disbursement Schedule
Bank Fiscal Year (ending June 30)
Disbursement                        (US$ million equivalent)
95          96          97          98        99
Annual                  20.0        70.0        90.0    [   40.0        20.0
Cmwulative              20.0        90.0        180.0       220.0      240.0
Economic Rates of Reurn:    Seed enterprises: 25-37 percent
Marketing enterprises: 26-29 percent
Non-investment activities: Not applicable
Poverty Category:            Not applicable



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
AGRICuLTURAL REFORm IMPLEMNTATION SUPPORT (ARIS) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I
THE MACROECONOmIC SETTNG
A. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
1.     The collapse of the former Soviet Union (FSU), ,ollowing the historic political events in 1991,
resulted in massive disruptions in all spheres of economic activity. The inmediate impact was a sharp
decline in real output with both industrial output and agricultural output falling by 8 percent each. Real
investment fell in excess of 25 percent. In January 1992, Russia launched an anbitious and
unprecedented economic reform program, which consisted of liberalization of prices, exchange rate and
the trade regime 1. However, high fiscal deficits caused an explosion of inflation, with retail prices
increasing six-fold and severely changing the agricultural input-output price relationships. The fiscal
program, though limited to the first quarter of 1992, imposed new taxes and slashed government spending
with the Central Bank pursuing an austere credit policy. The resultng spectacular rise in inter-enterprise
arrears and fears of a collapse in industrial output led the Central Bank to reverse course and loosen
credit reins.
2.      Some respite from the difficult macroeconomic situation in 1992 was obtained during the first
half of 1993, due to the stabilization measurer enforced by the pro-reform Government to avoid hyper-
inflation. The inflation rate declined from 24 percent per month in the first quarter to 19 percent in May
and 16 percent in June 1993. Decline in industrial production and real wages slowed. Economic
indicators generally worsened during the second half of the year, with the monthly rate of inflation
exceeding 20 percent during the tird quarter of 1993 as compared to the Govermnent's target of 11
percent. Output resumed its fall after a period of relative stability in late 1992 and early 1993, with a
drop of 12 percent in real GDP in 1993, representing an accumulated fall of nearly 40 percent in GDP
since 1990. While exports remained roughly unchanged in 1993, as compared to the previous year,
recorded imports for the economy fell by more than 25 percent. Imports of food and agricultural
commodities fell to about one-half of their level in the previous year. Decline in imports, therefore, was
considerably more than the decline in output during the same period. The decline in output is likely to
continue in 1994, although at a slower rate, with a rebound of growth not anticipated until in late 1995
or 1996. Declining output has not yet led to mass open unemployment, and this remains a potential
challenge in the near future.
3.      Significant progress has been made in the privatization of state enterplises in the last two years.
In late 1992, the Government launched a voucher-based mass privatization program under which vouchers
were issued to the population to be used independently to buy shares in enterprises or through
approximately 300 investment funds participating in the privatization program. By the end of 1993, more
than 7000 medium and large enterprises had been privatized this way, representing about 30 percent of
1.    More information about the macroeconomic situation during the early period of reform is available in the
Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) published ty the World Bank and entitled Russian Economic
Reform: Crossing the Threshold of Structural Change, September 1992.



2
the industrial work force. In addition, approximately 60-70 thousand small-scale enterprises were
privatized under arrangements predating the voucher program.
B. CouNTRY AssISTANCE STRATEGY
4.      The objective of the Bank's strategy is to effectively participate in the overall structural
transformation of the Russian economy into a market economy based largely on the private sector. The
Bank's lending s.rategy for the agricultural sector thus focuses on financing key investments in the private
sector as demonstrations for wider replication, on developing the critical infrastructure and institutions
needed to support farm restructuring, land privatization, development of markets, enhancement of
knowledge through creation of market and farmer information systems, reduction in distortions and
reform of agro-industrial enterprises. The Bank has prepared a comprehensive study that outlines a
broad strazegy for transforming the food and agricultural sector in Russia.2
5.     The Bank's involvement in Russia so far consists of a mix of rek.abilitation, technical assistance
and investment operations. The Board approved four loans for Russia in FY93 and, so far, two loans
in FY94: (a) the First Rehabilitation Loan of US$600 million in August 1992 (Ln. 3513), which included
US$150 million for agriculture to finance imports of critical agricultural inputs; (b) the Employment
Assistance and Social Protection Loan of US$70 miilion in October 1992 (Ln. 3532); (c) the Privatization
Implementation Assistance Project of US$90 million in November 1992 (Ln. 3546); (d) the Oil
Rehabilitation Project of US$610 million in June 1993 (Ln. 3623); and (e) the Highway Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Project of US$300 million in February 1994 (Ln. 3706). The Financial Institution
Development Project of US$200 million was approved by the Executive Directors on May 19, 1994
(Ln 3734).
6.    The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Russia was discussed with the Executive
Directors on May 19, 1994 in the context of the Financial Institutions Development Project. At that time,
the Bank recommended an Intermediate Case lending program on the ore r of $1.0-1.5 billion anmnally
(not including quick-disbursing adjustment lending), which would include a set of core projects that would
not require major sectoral policy conditionality. The ARIS project and the companion Land Reform
Implementation Support (LARIS) Project are included in the set of core projects. The objectives of the
CAS include: (i) support for the development of a market-oriented economy based on private sector
initiatives; (ii) encouragement of most of the redirection of public sector involvement in the economy
toward the establishment of open and competitive markets ald the provision of physical, social, legal and
institutional infrastructure not normally provided through the private sector; and (iii) establishment of the
Bank as a trusted and reliable development partner. 'The proposed ARIS Project meets all three
objectives. The private sector would be involved in :e operation of key agricultural marketing
infrastructure and the development of a modem seed in,ubLry. The public sector would focus on the
development of market information system and the provision of farmer information and advisory services
to support the evolution of markets and growth of private fanning. The Bank's support for programs
aimed at the development of private farmiing has encouraged the MOAF in promoting sound policies in
this sector. The proposed project is therefore fully consistent with the Bank's CAS for Russia.
2.    This strategy is contained in the Bank publication entided Food and Agricultural Policy Reforms in the
Former USSR: An Agenda for the Transition, Studies of Economies in Transition, Number 1, World Bank,
September 1992; and in the Background Working Papers, which focus on different aspects of the
agricural sector.



3
1I
THE AGRICULTURAL SECTIOR
A. AGRICULTURE IN THE RUSSIAN ECONOMY
7.      The agricultural sector plays a vital role in Russia's economy. First, the agro-industrial
complex is large and accounts for about 25 percent of the net material product, employment and
investment in Russia. Second, Russia is endowed with an extensive natural resource base with large
agricultural potential, but at present these resources are not being used efficiently. Third, agriculture
absorbs a large share of budgetary and hard currency resources, and any improvements in sector
performance could have a large impact on containing the budget deficit and improving the balance of
payments. Fourth, consumers allocate as much as 50 percent of their annual income to meet food
requirements. Finally, agriculture is an important sector to facilitate transition to a market economy and
development of private enterprises.
8.      Improved performance of the agricultural sector is one of the most important elements in
stabilizing the Russian economy and accelerating the ongoing structural transformation. Despite the
sector's potential for higher efficiency and growth, overall agricultuial production and distribution remain
inefficient. Agricultural production is declining, yields are low, physical losses are high, output and input
distribution systems are inefficient, prices are distorted, profitability is low and declining (particularly
for the livestock sector), and consumer and producer subsidies still remain high. Besides the prevailing
macroeconomic imbalances, deteriorating terms-of-trade, inefficient farm structure and lack of adequate
incentives, competitive markets, technical and market information and a well functioning credit system
have offset the expected benefits of reform in the short-run. The problems of access to inputs, markets,
information and credits are more serious for the newly emerging private farmers as compared to existing
or restructured collective or state farms.
B. STATUS OF AGRICULTURAL PRoDuCTIoN
Production Performance
9.     Despite a rich natural resource base, Russia's agricultural production perfomance has been far
below its potential. Production and consumption of agricultural commodities are dominated by the
livestock sector. Agricultural production is generally inefficient in comparison with Westem countries
and labor productivity is lower, despite relatively high shares of total capital investment allocated to
agriculture in recent decades. Crop yields are roughly 10-30 percent lower while livestock yields are 40-
50 percent lower than in similar agro-ecological regions in the West. Weaknesses in the production
system were compounded by inappropriate and wasteful policies toward consumers. Retail prices in the
state trading system were maintained at about the same level from the mid-1960's to the late 1980's. This
policy, combined with steadily rising costs of production and increasing inflationary pressures throughout
the economy during the 1980's, led to unsustainable levels of subsidies and severe disequilibrium in
agricultural markets by the beginning of the 1990's.
10.    The agricultural growth rate has been steadily declining since the 1970's and turned negative
beginning in 1990, with few hopeful signs of immediate reversal. During the 1980s, agricultural
production in Russia grew by less than two percent per year, allowing for modest increases in per capita
food availability. From its peak level in 1989, gross agricultural production fell by 4 percent in 1990,
a similar amount in 1991, 8 percent in 1992, and 4 percent in 1993, for a cumulative decline of about
20 percent from 1989 to 1993. The livestock sector accounts for about 60 percent of the gross value of
agricultural production. Livestock production fell by 23 percent between 1989 and 1993 while crop



4
production fell by 12 percent. Within the crop sector, over three-quarter of the arable area is allocated
to produce foodgrains, feedgrains and fodder crops (Figure 2.1). Grain production was at record level
in 1990, declined substantially in 1991, was at near record level in 1992 and was slightly lower in 1993.
Figure 2.1: Cropping Patte,-n and Distribution
of Arable Area, 1993
Other graIns
18%
Corn 1   _                   e o
Sunf lo owe
2%
61S
Other Feed Crops
26%
Source! OarIved frao Gogkanatat RUSIa sta and ar I d Bark taff at ffetQ.
11.    The main reasons for relatively poor agricultural (particularly livestock) production performance
are summarized below:
e     Overall deterioration in macroeconomic envronment: The break up of the former
USSR, the fragmented political structure, declining export revenues, uneven progress on
economic reforms and rapid depreciation of the ruble (between 1990 to 1993) led to
severe curtailment of imports of critical agricultural inputs and hence decline in
production. On the other hand, hign inflation rates and reduction in subsidies greatly
eroded the real purchasing power of consumers (which was exacerbated by the uneven
liberalization of input-output prices) and led to a decline in effective demand for
agricultural products;
o     Lack of appropriate incentives: Distorted input-output price structure, deteriorating
terms of trade and inappropriate farm structure failed to provide appropriate production
incentives, as did continued limitations on property rights. For January-December 1993,
the index of input prices paid by farms increased 11-12 times compared with the same
period in 1992 while the index of output prices received by farms increased 9 times,
thereby worsening the significant decline in terms of trade for agriculture recorded in
1992 over 1991 (Figure 2.2);
o     Disruptions in trade and marketing: The breakdown of traditional marketing linkages
among countries of the former USSR and Eastern Europe led to a decline in availbility
of critical agricultural inputs and disruption in markets and the payment system;
o     Dependence on state monopolies: Continued dependence on state monopolies for the
production, distribution and marketing of agricultural inputs and outputs led to
inefficiencies, wastage and reduced incentives;



5
Figure 2.2: Price  Index of Selected Agricultural
inputs and Outputs, 1992 compared to 1991
3IaO            GI Inuto Moutpute 
2,59o 0
500
1,A00~0 I   
Source! Derived from Goskwatat Russia data.
9     Reduced flnancial resources: Reduction in the availability of credit for production
activities and curtailed flow of subsidies to agricultural enterprises led to a reduction in
capacity utilization and hence production of agro-industrial enterprises; and
O     Weak linkages betveen research and applicadon: Agricultural research priorities do
not address the most pressing problems faced by farmers in terms of improved farm
management and agricultural technology.
12.     The poor production performance and low levels of agricultural production led to a heavy
reliance on imports of basic agricultural commodities and a net drain on foreign exchange resources, with
imports greatly exceeding exports. This resulted in large foreign exchange costs to the economy and has
been associated with large budgetary expenditure in the form of large import subsidies (about 40% of
total food and agriculture subsidies) and disincentives to local producers. For example, in 1992, wheat
imports were about US$'.9 billion and feedgrain imports (primarily corn and barley) were US$1.1
billion. The break up of the former Soviet Union led to disruption in the supply of essential agricultural
inputs, such as hybrid corn seed (which was produced mostly in Ukraine and Moldova), necessitating
Russia to import high quality hybrid corn seed worth about US$60 million in 1992/93. Furthermore,
during 1992, Russia imported vegetable oil worth US$275 million and oilseed meal (an animal feed)
worti approximately US$500 million. However, agricultural imports in 1993 declined by about 50
percent over 1992.
Production Prospects
13.    The prospects for agricultural production are largely dependent on the Government's ability to
enhance economic incentives, promote competition, reduce its intervention through directives and
implement agricultural reforms. So far, large state and collective fanns have continued to rely on large
subsidies and a high level of Government intervention. The government decrees and agricultural policies
pursued since January 1992 indicate significant reduction in Federal Government intervention at all stages
of the agricultural production, distribution, marketing and pricing. However, there exists a wide variation
in policies and reform initiatives being pursued by different oblast governments. Building an appropriate
institutional foundation for the implementation of agricultural reforms is, therefore, very critical for its
transformation.



6
C. FOOD AN!D AGRICULTURAL REFORMS
Reform Status
14.     Agricultural reforms were launched in earnest in 1990 with the passing of legislation on land
reform and private ownership, which reestablished the concept of individual or corporate ownership of
property, including: (a) the right to farm land by private farmers; (b) the freedom to enjoy the profits
therefrom; and (c) the right to acquire and dispose of property by sale, lease or inheritance. A list and
a brief description of major laws, decrees and resolutions pertaining to agricultural reform are provided
in Annex 1.
15.     A number of significant Presidential decrees were issued in late 1991 and early 1992 which
liberalized prices for a large nunber of commnodities, reduced agricultural subsidies, laid the basis for
privatization of state enterprises, established a framework for the reorganization of state and collective
farms and developed mechanisms of support for the creation of private family farms. During 1992, 1993
and early 1994, further steps were taken to support the agricultural reform effort. The system of
administrative allocation of inputs was abandoned and the size of centralized state orders for the sale of
agricultural commodities was significantly reduced but, in many cases, was replaced by sirmilar market
interve-ntions by the local governments. In addition, a program for privatizing input distribution,
agricultural service and food processing enterprises was introduced. The Land Decree, which was signed
by the President on October 27, 1993, strengthened private land ownership and removed restrictions on
buying, selling and mortgaging of land, thus creating an enabling environment to develop the land
market.
16.     The prospects for advancing agricultural reforms are uncertain because of a lack of clarity on
institutional responsibility for policy formulation, existence of monopolistic structures in agricultural
marketing, a continuing lack of an adequate legal framework for reform and a lack of consensus about
the strategy for sector development. In order to ensure sustained momentum, institutions responsible for
implementing ongoing reforms need to be supported. Agricultural reforms broadly focus on the following
five areas:
(a)    Land Refonn: The initial steps towards the establishment of land market are in place.
These consist of a package of laws and decrees, particularly the October 1993
Presidential Decree that: (i) allows citizens to own land, individually or jointly; (ii)
allows the owners to buy, sell and mortgage land; (iii) provides the right to exist as
private farms with equal access to credit and agricultural inputs similar to those granted
to state and collective farms; (iv) provides a basis for restructuring state and collective
farms; and (v) simplifies procedures for land registration.
(b)    Market Reform: The initial steps towards the achievement of competitive agricultural
marketing are in place. These consist of the adoption of several new policies which: (i)
have reduced or eliminated formal procurement quotas by the federal government; (ii)
have allowed non-government agencies to buy and sell agricultural produce in the open
markets; and (iii) have initiated programs to break up existing marketing monopolies,
including Roskhleboprodukt.



7
(c)    Enterprise Reform: Steps have been taken for privatization and enterprise reform in the
food processing industry (a portion of shares has been reserved for farms traditionally
doing business with these enterprises), input manufacturing industry and distribution of
inputs and processed commodities. Steps are also being taken towards promoting greater
competition through (i) corporatization of large conglomerates; and (ii) reorganization of
enterprises to eliminate cartelization for certain industrial commodities. In addition, steps
have been taken to (i) abolish the centralized system of administrative allocation of
agricultural inputs to farms, and (ii) introduce a speciali-ed program for privatizing input
distribution and agricultural services.
(d)    Price Reform: Significant steps have been taken to liberalize prices. These consist of:
(i) removal of administrative controls on prices for a large majority of commodities,
including agricultural inputs and outptlts; and (ii) deregulation of farmgate prices for most
agricultural commodities at the federal level (indirect price controls still remain at the
oblast level). Grain prices are now close to world prices. Fruit and vegetable prices are
substantially liberalized.
(e)    Subsidy Policies: The size of agricultural subsidies, which were explicit prior to the
reform, has been significantly reduced; and previously implicit price or non-price
subsidies for credit, irlaports, and energy have been made explicit. The structure of
subsidies has also shifted, with a smalher share tied to specific commodities, and
responsibility for subsidies is increasingly shifting from the federal budget to oblast
budgets. On balance, the size of subsidies going to producers and consumers of
agricultural commodities has declined substantially but still remains high.
17.     In conclusion, while the Government has introduced many reforms in the last three years, the
mnain bottlenecks for their implementation are the lack of necessary infrastructure, critical support services
and appropriate analytical and institutional capacity to design and impljment ongoing reform initiatives.
Reform Impact
18.     The chaotic economic transition contributed to serious short-term disruptions in input supply
(particularly high quality seed), agricultural marketing, deterioration of agricultural terms of trade and
decline in profitability and farm investment. However, reforms have triggered restructuring of
consumption and production patterns at all levels which is essential to improve the efficiency and
productivity of the food and agricultural sector in the long-term.
19.     Gradual Shift from Livestock to Crop Production. The agricultural strategy during most of
the pre-reform period in Russia had a singular objective of maximizing livestock production to increase
per capita dairy and meat consumption, without regard to economic efficiency and response to market
signals. All the policies, production structures, infrastructure and institutions were designed and built
to support this objective. Up to 1990, livestock accounted for about 64 percent of the value of gross
agricultural production and the remaining 36 percent was crop production. Over half the grain (including
wheat) was used as livestock feed.
20.      The dramatic increase in input costs and reduction of subsidies on meat and other livestock
products have made livestock production unprofitable. The removal of state quotas on livestock sales,
combined with greater autonomy for farm producers, has led to an overall decline in livestock production
(Figure 2.3). On the other hand, emerging incentives for grain production, particularly an increase in
grain prices, has led to an increase in the share of crop output in the total agricultural output.



8
Figure 2.3: Trends In CGain, Meat and
Milk Production
1987-91 annual average.100
820…
70
1987-91 average         1992                  1993
Source Derived from Goskonstat Rujssia data,
21.    Emergence of New Farm Organizations. In 1991, about three-quarters of Russian agricultural
production came from the large state and collective farms and the remaining one-quarter from individual
household plots. The liberalization in land laws has created new farm organizations. Two broad types
of farm organizations, that have evolved since 1991, are: (i) private individual farmers; and (ii)
corporatized state and collective fanms, which are in various stages of restructuring.
(a)    Private farms: By April 1, 1994, 277,000 private farms, averaging roughly 43 hectares
each, had been established (Figure 2.4). These farms account for about 5 percent of
arable land. The land reform has also provided entitlement to about 35 million users of
small land plots (household plots of state and collective farm workers, and garden,
orchard and dacha plots of city dwellers) which account for about 4 percent of arable
land. The plot size varies between 0.2 and 0.5 hectares. All of these users have now
become owners. The number of private farmers continues to increase.
(b)    Corporatization of state and collective farms: Most state and collective farms have
opted to assume property rights to their land from the state, but only a small percentage
has thus far opted for restructuring based on physical delineation of land and other asset
shares of each farm member. However, as the process of restructuring continues,
physical delineation is likely to expand. In addition to an appropriate legal framework,
investment in rural infrastructure (particularly roads), de-linking the provision of social
services in rural areas from the commercial operations of these farms and the
strengthening of rural social safety net are essential to expedite farm restructuring. IFC's
Land Privatization and Farm Reorganization project in Nizhny Novgorod, which is
supported by the USAID and the British Know-How Fund, has developed an approach
to restructure large state and collective farms into more economically viable units,
including private family farms. The process of farm restructuring received a boost with
the issuance of a Government Resolution entitled "On the Experience of Agrarian
Transformation in Nizhny Novgorod Oblast", highlighting the experience of the IPC
Nizhny Novgorod pilot project.



9
Figure 2.4: Growthi In the NurTber of
Private Farms
Thousands
300
250
200
100
SoLrcO Derived from Rugglan Federation State Lanrd Comitt asnd Roskouat.
22.    Prvatizaton and Emergence of New Marketing Channels. The gradual reduction in the role
of the Government in procurement and distribution has led to a rapid emergence of a variety of marketing
channels, mostly in the private sector. The privatization of up- and down-stream enterprises has also
progressed reasonably rapidly. According to a survey on April 1, 1993, 53 percent of enterprises
engaged in primary processing of agricultural commodities had been privatized, as had been 33 percent
of enterprises in agro-services and 44 percent of enterprises dealing with agricultural inputs. The number
of private enterprises in the agro-industrial complex has since increased. The size of federal state orders
has been reduced to 10 million tons, compared with nearly 30 million tons just two years ago. This
leaves oblast administrations with tremendous leverage over agricultural marketing and inter-regional
trade. Oblast governments have introduced their own state orders which by and large compensate for
any declines in federal state orders. Furthermore, oblast government tends to dominate agro-industrial
enterprises, including those that have undergone privatization. The Government is in the process of
breaking up Roskhleboprodukt, a major agricultural marketing monopoly.
23.    In order to make significant progress in market reform it will be necessary to develop alternative
marketing channels, which will be free to respond to economic incentives. This implies establishment
of wholesale markets (both producer and consumer oriented) and improvement of existing storage
facilities and transportation links among regions. Another factor holding up development of agricultural
markets is the lack of market information. Goskomstat (the State Statistical Committee) publishes weekly
data on retail prices for major Russian cities, but data on other prices are spotty at best. Furthermore,
there is almost a total lack of information on shipments, supplies and grades of commodities at major
market centers.
24.    Privatization and Input Sector Reforms. As of April 1, 1993, 44 percent of agricultural input
distribution enterprises had been privatized. While oblast governments interfere less directly in the
marketing and distribution of agricultural inputs (farms no longer receive quotas for the supply of inputs
and are free to deal directly with manufacturers), a number of problems exist. First, access to inputs
depends in large measure on access to subsidized credit, which continues to be allocated administratively.
Second, production and marketing of inputs remains largely monopolistic. Tnird, the breakup of the
former USSR disrupted these traditional patterns of input production and exacerbated farm access to



10
inputs. Fourth, input supply at subsidized prices is available only if farmers agree to sell output to the
government at arbitrarily fixed procurement prices.
25.     Russia's existing agricultural research and advisory networks were developed as part of a
centralized administrative system, where access to information was controlled by the state with the
primary clients being the large state and collective farns. The overall agricultural support services,
including research, extension and education have been isolated and are not equipped to meet the rapidly
changing knowledge requirements for emerging farm organizations. Improvements in the overall
ir.formation systems are vital for the ongoing sectoral reforms to be fully effective. Reorganization of
existing, and establishment of new farms are changing the client base for agricultural research and
extension. With the advent of a market system, new types of information have become relevant for
farms, particularly in the areas of agro-business and farm management. Better dissemination of technical
information is also important. The institutional underpinnings of the research and information systems
are in disarray; a functional extension system does not exist and research services are unable to meet
current needs. Furthermore, state support has been declining in recent years, with the result that the
physical infrastructure and the quality of staffing of these systems have deteriorated.
1). STATUS OF AGRICULTuRAL INSrTIuTioNs
26.     The institutional structure of the agricultural sector in the Russian Federation is extremely
complex and is characterized by several layers of decision-making, policy formulation and program
implementation. This complex system, which has evolved over a period of seventy years, is facing new
challenges. The enforcement of the Federal Treaty has led to decentralization of power between the
federal and oblast authorities and the growing independence of large state institutions to maintain control
on production, distribution and marketing. The division of responsibilities and the interaction among
various organizations remain ill-defined and uncertain in practice. The complexities at the federal level
are compounded by uncertainties among organizations at the federal level and those at the oblast level
about their respective roles.
The Federal Assembly
27.     Recent political events have brought about major changes in the structure of government
institutions and decision-making. At the highest level of decision-making is the newly elected Federal
Assembly which consists of the State Duma (the lower house) and the Federation Council (the upper
house). An Agrarian Committee is expected to be responsible for preparing drafts of legislation on
specific areas dealing with food and agriculture for consideration by the Federal Assembly. The Agrarian
Committee is also expected to review drafts of legislatinn originating in the executive branch of the
government. During recent elections, the role of the Agrarian Party and other political parties interested
in addressing agricultural issues has strengthened in the Federal Assembly. However, the degree of their
influence in the overall decision-making process for agricultural reform is not clear at this time.
Federal Executive Apparatus
28.     The head of agricultural policy within the executive branch is the Deputy Prime Minister who
oversees all executive agencies involved in activities related to agriculture at the federal level. The
Minister of Agriculture and Food and the Chairman of the Russian Committee for Land Resources and
Land Management report to the Deputy Prime Minister. Closest to him is the Agro-industrial Division
of the Federal Executive Apparatus, which provides the Council of Ministers with necessaty analysis and
information related to the agro-industrial complex.



11
Ministry of Agriculture and Food and State Committees
29.    The day to day functions of the agricultural sector are carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture
and Food. The organizational chart of the MOAF is presented in Annex 2. The Mi;iistry has the lead
responsibility for farm restructuring and the development of specific subsidy channels to support farms.
In addition, there are state committees for land, fisheries, and a federal service for forestry.
Responsibilities for land administration and land privatization are handled by the Russian Committee for
Land Resources and Land Management. Privatization of state enterprises involved in production and
delivery of agricultural inputs, provision of agricultural services, and procurement, processing and
marketing of agricultural commodities is the responsibility of the State Committee for the Management
of State Property (GKI).
Other Ministries and Agendies
30.    Several other Ministries are also responsible for formulating and implementing policies related
to different aspects of the food and agricultural sector. These are Ministries of Economy; Finance; Fuel
and Energy; Science, University Education and Technology Policy; Transport; Trade and Material
Resources; and Industry. A number of corporatized state organizations continue to play an important role
in the functioning of the agricultural sector. Agroprombank is by far the largest source of credit for
agriculture and also an agent for channeling government subsidy payments. Roskhleboprodukt continues
to remain the near-monopolistic domestic trader of grain and most oilseeds. Rosagrosnab provides most
agricultural inputs to farms, with the exception of fertilizers and chemicals, which are provided by
Rosselkhozkhimiya.
E. BANK'S LENDING STRATEGY FOR AGRICULTURE
31.    The Bank, through its Food and Agricultural Sector work since November 1991, has played a
key role in building the foundation for the design of structural reforms and in putting together a complex
package of macroeconomic stabilization measures needed for supporting the reforms in the agricultural
sector. A broad based policy framework has already been developed, which provides a basis for policy
dialogue with the government. The most important contribution of the Bank has been in increasing the
exposure of key policy makers to market principles and working with them in the design of appropriate
agricultural policy reform program to accelerate transition to a market economy.
32.     The Russian Government has identified agriculture as one of the important sectors requiring
assistance from the World Bank. Such assistance is important to achieve short-term supply response,
improve the efficiency of resource use, support the adjustment process, demonstrate tangible benefits from
the reform program and lay the foundation to achieve a sustained long-term supply response. The Bank's
planned lending program for agriculture consists of six types of lending operations, including:
o     The agriculture components of Rehabilitation Loans to provide funds for financing
imports of critical agricultural inputs. The First Rehabilitation Loan, which allocated
US$150 million to agriculture, has almost been disbursed. The Second Rehabilitation
Loan, which is expected to address structural and macroeconomic policy issues, has been
negotiated and is expected to be presented to the Executive Directors in 1994.
e     The proposed Agricultural Reform Implementation Support (ARIS) Project will
support the creation and strengthening of institutional and analytical capacity to
implement ongoing and future agricultural reform and finance selected critcal
investments as "pilot" projects.



12
*     The proposed Land Reform Implementation Support (LARIS) Project, which is also
expected to be presented to the Executive Directors in 1994, would support the creation
and strengthening of public infrastructure and institutional capacity to implement the
ongoing and future land reforms.
°     Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL), the p;ocessing of which was initiated
earlier, will support a comprehensive national program of agricultural policy reforms
and, in this respect, it will complement the ARIS and LARIS projects. Further
processing of this loan, however, is contingent on the progress in policy reforms and an
agreement on an agricultural policy reform program.
°     Regional Agricultural Development Project (RADP) is designed to focus on two
selected regions to finance critical investments and implementation of specific policy
reforms, with a particular focus on farm restructuring.
*     The Sector or Sub-Sector Investment Loans (SILs) are expected to focus on vital
agricultural sub-sectors. The first in a series of such operations is expected to focus on
agricultural research, extension and education. Other possibilities include forestry,
fertilizer, agro-industry and livestock sub-sectors.
33.    The Bank's strategy is to help put in place the fundamental building blocks, which are essential
to the development of a market oriented agricultural economy. While this transition will necessarily take
place over a number of years, there is an immediate need to develop the human resources and institutional
capacity in agriculture which are vital for the efficient functioning of a market economy and the
implementation of agricultural reforms. The Bank's lending strategy thus focuses on financing key
investments in the private sector as demonstrations for wider replication, on developing the critical
infrastructure and institutions needed to support farm restructuring, land privatization, development of
markets, enhancement of knowledge through creation of market and farmer information systems,
reduction in distortions and reform of agro-industrial enterprises.
34.     In support of these goals, the Bank expects to provide substantial training and technical
assistance through direct lending and co-financing arrangements supplemented by the ongoing and planned
economic and sector work (ESW). In addition to the major Bank report entitled Food and Agricultural
Policy Reforms in the Former USSR: An Agenda for the Transition (Food Sector Study), financed by the
Bank's Technical Cooperation Program (TCP), the ESW includes strategic studies on land reform and
farm restructuring (Yellow Cover completed), agricultural research, extension and education (White
Cover completed) and possibly other sector studies such as forestry, fertilizers, food processing and
livestock.
F. RATIONALE FOR BANK PARTICIPATION
35.    Increasing productivity, farm restructuring and privatization of the agricultural sector are major
goals of Russia's ongoing transition to a market economy. Since 1990, the federal government has
introduced unprecedented land, price, trade and enterprise reforms designed to accelerate this transition
and has made considerable progress. Nevertheless, much remains to be done to develop an overall policy
framework to reform the agricultural sector. There are critical institutional constraints to the sector's
reform process, among the most of which are: an inadequate land title registration system (which is being
addressed through the proposed LARIS project); lack of a market information and competitive marketing
channels; lack of information to serve private farmers and newly restructured farms; and lack of modern
industry for production and distribution of quality seed for two critical crops, corn and sunflower.



13
Furthermore, Russia lacks appropriate analytical and institutional capacity for project preparation. As
a result, it is difficult to prepare projects based on sound economic principles and effectively implement
the ongoing and future agricultural reforms.
36.    The Bank's involvement in the agricultural sector is essential to continue the dialogue with the
Government which was initiated through the Food Sector Study work. The Bank's involvement in the
ARIS project would: (a) help develop key institutions necessary to implement agricultural reform; (b)
accelerate the development of private farming; (c) finance critical investments to develop market
infrastructure and modem seed industry; and (d) maintain the policy dialogue and contribute to the
prospects for continuing policy reform.
I1[I
BANK EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS
37.     The Bank has very limited experience in implementing agricultural projects in Russia or other
FSU countries. The experience in the socialist East European countries in transition is also limited and
it is too early to draw specific lessons. However, the Bank has extensive experience in implementing
diverse agricultural projects (similar to the proposed ARIS project) in many other parts of the world.
Relevant experience is briefly summarized below to provide appropriate lessons for designing the
proposed agricultural project in Russia.
A. MARKET INFRAsTucTuRE DEVEoPMENT
Bank Experience in Agricultural Marketing
38.     Bank-assisted projects in agricultural marketing have, by and large, emphasized the role of
prices in efficient resource allocation, and supported the development of marketing organizations and
infrastructure. A few projects focussed specifically on development of export markets. An Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) report, based on four hundred agricultural projects audited prior to 1986
(almost half of which included marketing components), noted that about 55 percent of the marketing
components met the established criteria for success.3 However, these components did not address the
measures needed for efficient market operations such as conmiercial code and privatization. In most
cases, institutional capacity was overlooked or inadequately appraised. No assistance was provided to
improve trading systems. Studies related to pricing, marketing policy, and organizational issues were
either done unsatisfactorily or not at all. There was no evidence that these studies resulted in any follow-
up action.
39.    The marketing parastatals' dominant role as project beneficiaries was striking. During the 1960s
and 1970s, parastatals were accepted less critically. Parastatal projects were perhaps easy to design and
implement. The parasatals often had a legal monopoly of trade, so that assistance was provided to the
only available and government-supported organization. Projects in Africa and Asia relied heavily on
parastatals, while projects in MENA (Middle East and North Africa) and LAC (Latin America and the
Caribbean) emphasized cooperatives and the private sector, respectively. Inadequate marketing margiins
(due to price controls) were the primary cause of poor services from both public and private narketing
channels. Problems of poor management in large parastatals and cooperatives seemed to outweigh
3.    The World Bank, 'Agricultural Marketing: World Bank's Experience,' Report No. 7353, June 28,
1988. Out of 402 projects, only 12 were classified as primarily marketing projects.



14
potential economies of scale. Private marketing channels, where available, were often preferred by
farmers and were formidable competitors to successful parastatals in the provision of marketing services.
40.     Projects dealing with horticC 'tural exports in the Mediterranean helped to moderniz "he sector
by promoting new agricultural techniques, improving post-harvest facilities and strengthening of
marketing systems. However, the implementation was affected by tensions associated with the use of 1
smallholder approach -- out of concern for poverty -- in projects that were intended to modernize ano
expand exports to a complex, fast-changing market.
41.    The Agricultural Wholesale Marketing Project in the Republic of Korea (Ln. 21 11) was the first
project of its kind by the Bank. Although the Bank-financed wholesale market in Seoul had a beneficial
impact, the preparation was long and costly resulting mainly from the Bank's inexperience in this type
of project and failure to engage adequate and relevant expertise; changes of objectives and components;
and language problems between the Bank and Korean experts.
42.     The Agricultural Marketing Project in Mexico (Ln. 2262) financed private investments to
improve infrastructure and equipment for agricultural marketing. The OED review classified this project
as satisfactory, particularly in institution building. In retrospect, however, one of the main lessons
learned was that the project preparation failed to identify important trends in marketing that were already
underway. Furthermore, the spatial aspects of marketing -- location of new wholesale and retail centers
-- should have received more attention.
43.     The Marketing Project in Brazil (Ln. 2727) introduced reform in trade and pricing policies for
key agricultural commodities. The project also supported a market information system to improve the
quality of the government's agricultural production forecasts. The project was rated satisfactory with
notable success in the areas of price stabilization based on a system of market safeguards (price bands);
trade simplification in terms of reducing unnecessary agricultural inspections and red tape in customs
clearance and establishing better information systems to monitor trade transactions.
Proposed Project Design
44.     The design and implementation of the market infrastructure development component of the
proposed project incorporates the lessons of Bank experience. Training and technical assistance will
support a framework for efficient market operations, develop strategies to restructure existing monopolies
and promote new institutions in agricultural marketing.
45.      The project-assisted pilot investments would be made in the private sector without the
involvement of government parastatals. The pilot investments will reform the operations of a few, large
fruit and vegetable bases which operated as part of massive storage and distribution system that served
the needs of the command economy. The pilot investments will demonstrate the critical role of
infrastructure and institutional reforms for reorienting the operations of existing marketing institutions
and for improving incentives to producers, efficiency in marketing services, and benefits to consumers.
46.     Bank involvement in the development of market information systems (MIS) has been limited.
The MIS design under the proposed project has benefitted from the experience gained from a pilot project
in Kaluga Oblast which is supported by the USDA. Several publications provided useful guidelines for
designing the market information system in Russia. This includes a handbook on Market Information
Services prepared by the German Agency for Technical Assistance (GTZ), based on the Indonesian
Market Information System and the FAO's Agricultural Technical Services Bulletins on Market
Information System and the Use of Microcomputers for Market Information Systems.



15
B. FARMER INFORMATION AND ADviSORY SERVICES
Bank Expenence in Agriculture Extension
47.     The World Bank has been the main multilateral institution to finance agriculture extension
projects, designed to provide information and advisory services, in the developing world. With a modest
investment of US$2.8 million IDA credit to Kenya in 1964, the Bank's commitment to extension either
as free-standing projects or as components have amounted to over US$2.5 billion in nominal terms by
FY92. Agriculture extension continues to be an important element in the overall Bank's strategy to
promote agricultural development. The main objective of Bank financed extension projects have been
to increase production and productivity through: (a) strengthening message delivery capacity and linkages;
(b) improving management; (c) increasing environmental awareness; and (d) providing staff training.
48.     A recent review of past and current agricultural extension projects, supported by the Bank,
reveals three features. First, .the intended client group has been the small-holder subsistence agriculture,
as this group was considered most in need of extension services. However, the emergence of large
commercial farm organizations has created the need for enlarging the client base and information
requirements. Second, almost all the Bank financed projects have relied on the public sector as the main
provider of extension services. With many developing countries facing budget crisis, continued provision
of extension activities solely through the public sector, is unsustainable in the long run. Third, the
underlying Bank approach was the Training and Visit System (T&V) which emphasized face to face
interaction and, at times, was modified to take into account country-specific situations. It was a
hierarchically organized and time-bound method of managing extension that was designed to deliver
selected and timely technology to farmers with strict regularity. It required an extensive organization
with a singular devotion to extension activities.
Lessons from Experience with Extension Projects
49.    The major implementation problems encountered in extension projects were (a) lack of diagnosis
and feedback; (b) insufficient management support for extension staff; (c) unclear procurement
arrangements; and (d) underdeveloped links with research. Furthermore, the expected benefits have been
below expectations.4 However, given their nature, it is difficult to quantify the benefits from extension
services. Despite the importance of extension, a clear cut strategy for its provision and corresponding
policies do not yet exist in many countries.
50.    Lessons from the Bank's experience in agricultural extension are many. First, future extension
projects should focus on strengthening the generation, use and exchange of information. The top-down
approach needs to be changed to a more participatory approach, where the end-users are actively involved
in the design of the extension system. Second, attention should be paid to training of the staff engaged
in extension. Third, increased emphasis should be placed on a multi-media approach to disseminate
information since it would be cost effective and can reach the intended population quickly. Finally, while
the public sector would continue to be involved in extension activities, its role needs to be re-defined in
the light of rapid changes in information technology and increasing role of the private sector.
4.     See, for example, the project performance audit reports (PPARs) on Extension and Research Project in
India, Report No. 8808, June 29, 1990; National Agricultural Extension II Project in Thailand, Report
No. 10101, November 22, 1991; Agriculture Extension and Adaptive Research Project in Sri Lanka,
Report No. 10632, May 13, 1992; and Agricultural Extension and Research Report in Nepal, Report
No. 10661, May 20, 1992.



16
Proposed Project Design
51.     The design of the Farmer Information and Advisory Services (FIAS) component of the ARIS
project incorporates the lessons learned from Bank experience. The design is based on a multi-source,
multi-user, multi-disciplinary and multi-media approach. It uses the existing agricultural information base
available in agricultural research institutes, land data banks, academies and universities and a highly
skilled and literate work force. The FIAS component is designed to provide services initially as a public
good since the Russian economy is undergoing a structural transformation and the private sector is still
in its infancy. However, the project has built-in cost recovery mechanisms and has sufficient flexibility
for private sector participation.
C. SEED INDUSgRY DEVELOPMENT
Bank Experience in Seed Projects
52.     The World Bank has supported about 18 free-standing seed projects and over 80 projects
involving seed as a component for a total conmnitment of US$456 million from 1969 to 1993. Asia has
accounted for about 60 percent of projects and 70 percent of financing for seed projects. The broad
objectives of Bank financed seed projects have been: (a) enhancing the availability of high quality seeds
of major crops; (b) improving the quantity and quality of production, processing and marketing capability
of certified seeds; (c) enhancing the capacity of public sector research and development of pre-basic and
basic (super elite arid elite) seeds: (d) improvement in national seed policies, including seed law; (e)
establishment of quality control laboratories and seed certification agencies; and  (f) investments in
institutional development through technical assistance and training.
53.      Most of the investment has been in the public sector seed corporations for production,
processing, storage and marketing. This was due to considerations of food security and lack of interested
private sector to undertake investments in seed production. Many Bank projects operated well below their
capacity, were often a financial liability for governments and produced sub-standard quality seeds. Only
recently the Bank has initiated the integration of public and piivate sectors in seed projects. This includes
the India National Seed Project-III (1989), Nigeria Seed and Quarantine Project (1990), and Ethiopia Seed
Development project (1993).
54.     There has been a lack of national policy environment that would support market-oriented seed
industry in terms of varietal improvement, quality control, and certification standards. In the absence
of a national seed policy, seed law and attendant regulations were generally not enforced, despite Bank-
supported improvements in seed quality control aspects, seed testing laboratories, and the seed
certification agencies. Rationalization of seed pricing was often ignored since prices were often regulated
and subsidized. Enforcement of law on breeder's intellectual property rights and their consequential
impacts on the varietal development were given little attention.
55.     The establishment of government model seed farms has not been successful due to lack of
appropriate incentives and trained personnel. Many of the seed projects for self-pollinated crops (wheat
and rice), did not achieve their stated objectives. The quantity and the quality of seeds produced by the
government seed farms were not satisfactory and, therefore, were unable to gain farmers' confidence.



17
Lessons from Experience with Seed Projects
56.     The key implementation problems encountered in the Bank-financed seed projects are: (a) delay
in the construction of seed plants; (b) problem of counterpart funding; (c) delays in procurement; (d) lack
of institutional commitment; (e) delays in staff recruitment; and (f) weak implementation of seed policy.
There is also a need for the development of institutional franework, laws and enforcement mechanism
for seeds and intellectual property rights of plant breeders, privatization of seed enterprises, and
technology transfer to ensure establishment of commercial seed industry. Therefore, any future seed
projects should integrate public and private sector roles in developing the commercial seed industry.
Proposed Project Design
57.     The seed component of the proposed project incorporates the lessons learnt from the Bank-
financed projects by focussing both on policy and institutional aspects and investment in the private sector
for the development of pilot seed enterprises. The project will support the establishment of a seed
advisory committee and a non-governmental seed association to represent the interests of the seed
industry. The project will also strengthen the capacity of the agency responsible to register new varieties
and hybrids for conmmercial production and the seed inspection agency to provide a range of services to
the existing seed agencies and emerging seed enterprises.
58.     This component will demonstrate how a commercial seed industry can be organized to increase
the availability of high quality seeds. The proJect will provide institutional support in the form of training
to policy makers and technical personnel of the government seed department and seed industry. Technical
assistance will be provided to help implement the plant breeders' rights legislation, to help administer the
certification and seed testing programs, to help define the roles of the seed advisory committee and the
seed association and to prepare feasibility studies for potential new seed enterprises.
IV
THE PROJECT
A. PRoJECr OBJECTIVES
59.     The main objectives of the project are: (a) to create and strengthen the most critical support
services to accelerate the implementation of ongoing and future agricultural reforms; (b) to build
analytical and institutional capacity to identify, appraise and implement agricultural and agro-business
projects by the private sector on the basis of economic criteria; and (c) to demonstrate the role that the
private sector can play in promoting efficiency in the agro-industrial sector. The support services would
focus on: (i) the creation of an enabling policy environment for private sector participation in seed and
market development; (ii) establishment of a nationwide market information system; and (iii) establishment
of fanner information and advisory services. The role of the private sector would be demonstrated by
selective "pilot" investments in hybrid corn seed enterprises, sunflower seed enterprises, fruit and
vegetable marketing bases and vegetable storage facilities. The provision of critical support services and
demonstration of the commercial viability of participating enterprises would lay the foundation for an
efficient agricultural sector based on private ownership and market principles.  Project support for
participating marketing and seed enterprises is critical since (i) it will facilitate privatization of similar
enterprises; (ii) it will help introduce policy reforms; (iii) it will demonstrate that these and similar
investments are commercially viable and can be replicated; and (iv) it will build analytical capacity to
evaluate and implement sub-projects by the private sector.



18
B. PRoJEcT CoMPoNENTs
60.      The proposed ARIS project consists of three main components.  These are: (a)  Market
Infrastructure Development; (b) Farmer Information and Advisory Services; and (c) Seed Industry
Development. These are summarized in Table 4.1. The sub-sector background and additional component
details are summarized in Annex 3 for Market Infrastructure Development; in Annex 4 for Farm
Information and Advisory Services; and in Annex 5 for Seed Industry Development.
TABLE 4.1: Project Components and Sub-Components
Components                                    Sub-Components
1. Market Infrasrcture Development (MID)        1. Market Information System (MIS)
2. Development of 'Pilot' Private Marketing Enterprises
3. Institutional Development
2. Farmer Information and Advisoty Services (FIAS)  1. Farmer Information Development
2. Farmer Information Dissemination
3. Institutional Development
3. Seed Industry Development (SID)              1. Development of 'Pilot' Private Seed Enterprises
2. Institutional Development
C. MARKErI  FIRsArRucrURE DEVELOPMENT
Objectives
61.      The main objectives of market infrastructure development component are: (a) to establish an
agricultural market information system (MIS) to collect, process and disseminate relevant, timely and
reliable market and price information for the benefit of farmers, traders and policy makers in 86 oblasts
and 500 rayons; (b) to demonstrate, through "pilot" private investments in marketing enterprises in
Moscow City, Moscow and Belgorod Oblasts, the role of commercially viable marketing enterprises; and
(c) to define the evolving catalytic role of MOAF and regional authorities in market development during
tuansition.
Concept
62.      Access to market information is crucial for the successful functioning of the emerging market
economy since it increases market transparency; transmits incentives and opportunities for agricultural
producers; improves producers' bargaining position; stimulates competition among traders; expands
processors' and consumers' choices in product selection; and facilitates rational decision-making by
producers, traders and policy makers. In the past, the government used Goskomstat and MOAF's
statistical systems to generate information necessary for managing a centrally planned economy. The
ongoing privatization, deregulation and decentralization of the economy has led to the emergence of
private farmers, restructured farms and agro-business enterprises. This has generated a need for new
statistical and information services to improve marketing decisions; identify opportunites and adjust
production and marketing activities in response to changes in prices, demand and supply of agricultural
commodities and inputs.



19
63.      There is a need to re-define the traditional role of MOAF and local governments from
performing market functions to playing a catalytic role in encouraging private sector investments in such
activities. This would be demonstrated through selective investments in "pilot" marketing enterprises.
The ARIS project would also establish a legal, institutional and operational framework for emerging
primary and wholesale markets and commodity exchanges for agricultural products.
Detailed Features
64.     The Market Infrastructure Development Component consists of three sub-components: (a)
market information system: (b) pilot investments in market infrastructure; and (c) institutional
development.
65.     Market Information System. The project will support the establishment of a nationwide
agricultural market information system. A pilot project in market information, prepared by MOAF and
the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), is currently being implemented in Kaluga Oblast with
technical assistance from the USDA. Similar pilot projects are being prepared by MOAF and USDA in
Belgorod Oblast and the Republic of Mari. The MIS to be developed by the ARIS project will benefit
from this experience. Market information will flow from rayon offices to oblast offices. Oblast offices
will also collect and process local information and manage the database. A central Market Information
Unit in the MOAF in Moscow will draw information from databases at the oblast level, commodity
exchanges, Goskomstat and international sources. The proposed MIS is designed to perform this new
role and will consist of: (a) Price Information Service for farmers, traders, processors and consumers;
and (b) Price Monitoring Service for government agencies and policy makers. The project will provide
equipment, supplies, training and technical assistance to MOAF in Moscow, and its departments at oblast
and rayon levels. MOAF will release the market information, initially as a public good, through
television, radio, electronic and print media, with a phased introduction of cost recovery through
provision of commercial information services.
(a)    Commodity coverage. Commodities to be covered by the MIS include agricultural
inputs, outputs and processed products as follows: (i) agricultural inputs: seeds, feed and
feed additives, fertilizers, pesticides, fuel and oil, and machinery; (ii) agricultural
outputs: grains, flax, sugar beets, sunflower seeds, soybeans, potatoes, cabbage and
other vegetables and fruits, livestock products, tea, forage products, and (iii) processed
products: sugar, bread, vermicelli, macaroni, flour, rice, alcohol, sunflower and
vegetable oil, frozen and canned meat, and dairy and poultry products.
(b)    Information coverage. The MIS will collect and report on: (i) farmgate prices: prices
received by agricultural producers; (ii) buying prices: prices of raw materials paid by
processing enterprises (representing farmgate price plus transport cost and trade margin);
(iii) selling prices: prices received by processing en erprises ex-factory (representing
purchase price plus value added and trade margin); and (iv) retail prices: prices paid by
consumers (representing selling prices of processing enterprises plus transport costs and
retail trade margins). These prices will be reported with reference to specific grades and
standards. Existing grading and standardization systems are poor and need improvement
to make them consistent with international standards. The MOAF, in association with
the State Grading and Standardization Bureau, will introduce appropriate grades for
collecting and reporting of price data. A formal understanding in this regard has been
reached between MOAF and the State Grading and Standardization Bureau. Information
will also include market arrivals and volumes traded, though in the initial years, the MIS



20
may not provide these data in all oblasts. Price information will be collected once a
week, but at greater frequency during harvest seasons.
(c)    Sources of information. Agriculture departments at the oblast and rayon levels will
identify representative producers and markets to be included in the sample survey, using
guidelines developed by MOAF, with assistance from the World Bank. These guidelines
will be reviewed and rationalized with technical assistance provided by the proposed
project. Information on farmgate prices will be collected at selected numbers of state,
collective and private farms and household and garden plots. As for the processors'
buying and selling prices, price information will be collected directly from sample
enterprises. For collection of data on retail prices, MOAF has established arrangements
with Goskomstat which has extensive experience in this activity. It will work with
Goskomstat to improve the design of information collection on retail prices rather than
establishing a parallel new organization for this activity. The curreat frequency of
reporting retail prices once a week is adequate. Institutional and financial arrangements
for accessing international databases will be negotiated during the first year of pro:ect
impiementation by inviting bids from national and international news agencies dealing
with market information.
(d)    Linkage with FIAS. The MOAF Computer Center will coordinate all MIS and the
Farmer Information and Advisory Services (FIAS) related data processing activities in
Moscow and oblast headquarters, including the installation of computer equipment at the
rayon level, where practical, to minimize costs and increase operational. efficiency. The
project will assist the MOAF Computer Center (MOAFCC) with a central computer
system, which is based on the Open Software Foundation (OSF) Distributee Computing
Environment (DCE) technology and uses the X.25 packet switching network. This
enables users to have access to information within the constraints of their authorization.
The system design includes three tiers of computer processing, viz., rayon, oblast, and
the federal center.
66.      Pilot Investments in Market Infrastucture.  The project will finance selected "pilot"
investments in typical consumption and production areas to demonstrate institutional reforms to promote
development of agricultural marketing by the private sector and the commercial viability of participating
private enterprises. The criteria for selection of private market enterprises and their eligibility for Bank
financing are indicated in Annex 6.
67.     The fruit and vegetable bases (large storage and distribution facilities which are a link between
the producers and retailers) represent substantial past investments in buildings, cold storage and handling
equipment. For example, the 25 specialized fruiit and vegetable bases in Moscow City have storage
capacity for 1.2 million tons of produce, including 737,000 tons of cold storage. Under the old system,
all fresh fruit and vegetables were channelled through one or the other of these 25 "bases" in Moscow
City. They stored and packed the produce to send it to retail shops or institutions in designated areas.
Prices were partially subsidized by the Moscow City Government and retailers had no choice of supplier
or quality. The bases, until late 1991, were under the centralized control of the Moscow Committee on
Fruit and Vegetable Sector. Since 1991, it became possible for the management and workers of
individual bases to organize into Fruit and Vegetable Associations (FVAs), lease their premises from the
Moscow City and operate the bases independently.



21
68.     Since July 1993, all the bases have become or are in the process of becoming joint stock
companies. About half of them are privatized as "closed" joint stock companies, while the other half
retain the Moscow Property Committee as a minority shareholder. The personnel working in the bases,
from the managers to the floor workers, have become joint owners of the bases and depend on the FVA's
for their livelihood and many will remain employees of the bases. These bases are in a period of rapid
market transformation and their traditional activities of providing urban storage for five basic crops, viz.,
potatoes, cabbages, onions, carrots and red beets, are not going to sustain them financially in a free
market situation. Hence, there is a need for them to take on new activities, respond to consumer demand
and improve their operational efficiency.
69.    In order to do this, pilot investments will be undertaken in Moscow City; Moscow Oblast; and
Belgorod Oblast. The sub-borrowers would be recently privatized enterprises (own at least 51 percent
of the shares). The project would finance the rehabilitation and construction of market infrastructure,
including civil works, equipment, cold storage facilities, incremental working capital, training and
technical assistance. Some of the sub-projects have already been appraised by MOAF and the World
Bank and appraisal of the remaining sub-projects will be supervised by the Project Development Unit
(PDU) and the Bank during project implementation.
(a)    Pilot Investments in Moscow  City.  These will include technical upgrading,
rehabilitation and conversion of up to three fruit and vegetable bases and their gradual
transformation from centers for seasonal procurement and long-term storage into
permanent multi-commodity distribution centers, mini-wholesale and "cash and carry
mnarkets and custom storage facilities. This will also focus on reducing post-harvest
losses, and improving storage facilities for fresh fruits, vegetables and potatoes to
safeguard their quality and hygienic conditions. Two bases which have already been
identified for inclusion in this project are: Perovskaya and Sverdlovskaya.
(b)    Pilot Investments in Moscow Oblast. This will include expansion and upgrading cf
storage facilities (up to a maximum of six private enterprises) for fruits and vegetables,
including sorting and grading facilities in support of the proposed transfer of the seasonal
and long-term storage of fruits and vegetables from Moscow City to production areas in
Moscow Oblast.
(c)    Pilot Investments in Belgorod Oblast. These will include investments which would
have an impact on market development in predorninantly production and rural areas of
Belgorod Oblast, consisting of technical upgrading of two fruit and vegetable bases to
reduce their seasonal and long-term storage function and conversion into distribution
centers or cash and carry markets. Pre-feasibility studies for these sub-projects have
already been completed.
70.     Institutional Development. Marketing, as opposed to central allocation, is a relatively new
concept in Russia. Extensive training and technical assistance is needed to provide the necessary exposure
and experience to those who will be involved in agricultural marketing, both in the government and
industry, at the federal, oblast and rayon levels.
(a)    Training.  The project will provide overseas and domestic training to marketing
specialists, regional organizations and other eligible institutions in marketing systems,
stock management and storage operations; financial management; product pricing and
profitability analysis; and financial and cost accounting. Further details on training are
provided in Annex 7.



22
c  (b)    Technical Assistance. Technical assistance would be provided to MOAF and selected
local governments to define their catalytic role in market development. This will
contribute to improved policy and operational framework for development of agricultural
marketing nationwide. Technical assistance would also be provided to the participating
private enterprises in the establishment and efficient operations of sub-projects. Further
details on technical assistance are provided in Annex 8.
Geographical Coverage
71.    The scope of the proposed MIS sub-component will be nation-wide and will focus on important
commodities for respective regions. During project i^nplementation, MOAF may include additional
commodities in specific regions. MIS will have small offices in 86 oblasts, krays and autonomous
republics. The number of rayons, in which market information will be collected, will be limnited to a
maximum of representative S00 rayons. This corresponds to about 5 to 6 rayons in each oblast. Market
information will be disseminated to all rayons nationwide. For the pilot investment program, the
geographical coverage will be Moscow City, Moscow Oblast and Belgorod Oblast. The implied
geographical coverage for the training and technical assistance program will be national. Moscow City,
Moscow Oblast and Belgorod Oblast and the participating private enterprises will also benefit from the
training and technical assistance activities.  The regions must agree to meet the conditions for
participation in the project. The geographical coverage of market infrastructure development component
is summarized in Map No. IBRD 25I49.
D. FARMER INFORMATION AND ADVisORY SERVICES
Objectives
72.    The objective of the Farmer Information and Advisory Services (FIAS) component is to respond
to rapidly increasing demand for information by the newly emerging private farmers, restructured farms
and agro-business enterprises. It is designed to provide timely, reliable, user friendly, easily accessible
and pratical (agronomic, technical, management, business, legal and environmental) information to
enable them to make informed decisions in a market-oriented environment. The project would support
the establishment of FIAS centers in 30 oblasts and 125 rayons covering important agricultural areas.
Concept
73.    In the past, information services for the agricultural producers were centralized. This system
resulted in the development of a large number of narrowly focussed specialists to advise the managers
of large state and collective farms. The knowledge was supplemented by research and field applications
undertaken in a wide network of research institutes and experimental stations. Most of the research
results were introduced by directives. There were little incentives to promote new innovations. While
this system worked reasonably well for a centralized economy with a limited number of clients (about
25000 state and collective farms), it is not appropriate or adequate to meet the needs of large number of
private farmers (277,000) and restructured farm enterprises (50,Ot).
74.     The emergence of new farm organizations and the absence of an appropriate extension system
has created a need for information for the development of business and technical skills. The FIAS
component has been designed to meet this need. The underlying concept of the farmer information and
advisory service component is the need based multi-source, multi-user, multi-disciplinary and multi-media
approach (4-M Modular approach). This approach is the most appropriate for Russia since it is based
upon the existing agricultural information available in an extensive network of agricultural research



23
institutes, agro-chemical testing stations, land data banks, academies and universities and the presence
of a highly skilled and literate work force. The vast logistic problems associated with a widely dispersed
farm population needs innovative approaches for reaching large numbers of the farm community. This
is made possible by the use of a variety of mass media delivery mechanisms and the use of a
teleconmmunication network appropriate for the establishment of a nationwide electronic network. A
regular feedback mechanism is incorporated for continuous updating of information needs. The concept
is flexible; uses methods that could be implemented quickly, easily and at least cost; and are accessible
to a large number of emerging farmers and farm organizations.
Detailed Features
75.     The Farmer Information and Advisory Services component consists of three sub-components:
(a) Farmer Information Development; (b) Farner Information Dissemination; and (c) Institutional
Development.
76.     Farmer Information Development. The project would strengthen the MOAF's capacity for
information development and packaging at the federal, oblast and rayon levels. FIAS would finance the
necessary infrastructure, supplies, equipment and vehicles to carry out these activities by the' MOAF.
Information needs assessment survey of various clients in 12 oblasts and 36 rayons was carried out in
1993. As a result of this survey, MOAF, through ARSRIIMA (All Russian Scientific and Research
Institute of Innovation and Marketing in Agriculture), is providing information and advisory services to
three oblasts (Vladimir, Voronezh and Pskov) and three rayons in each of these oblasts. The project will
benefit from this experience. Furthermore, findings of this survey have been incorporated in establishing
priorities for farmer information development.  The primary sources of appropriate agricultural
information would be national and regional agricultural research institutes, progressive farmers and
appropriate packages of agricultural practices, inputs and technology from foreign countries.
77.     The FIAS centers located at the oblast and rayon level agricultural administrations will be the
main contact points for various end-users. These centers would: (i) provide agricultural advisory
services; and (ii) serve as the primary source of agricultural information. Project trained specialists
would have access to a variety of information, agricultural packages and databases made available through
the electronic network. These centers would also have a variety of locally developed and international
materials related to various aspects of agriculture. The FIAS centers will co-ordinate relevant activities
and information with the MIS centers. Adequate training for PIAS personnel and a large number of end-
users and appropriate technical assistance will be provided to ensure the development and dissemination
of relevant information and advisory services.
78.    Two broad types of information would be developed and disseminated: (a) general information:
examples include laws concerning land reform, privatization and credit; "how to" start new business, keep
simple accounts, reduce post harvest losses; and (b) information specific to regions and clients -
examples include market conditions of farm inputs and outputs in neighboring rayons and oblasts,
weather, recommnended region specific agronomic practices and environmental conditions.  All
information generated by this project would initially be made available by the MOAF, as a public good.
However, cost recovery methods would be introduced in phases during project implementation.
79.      Fanner Information Dissemination.  The information from the FIAS centers will be
disseminated through a multi-media system. The project will finance the necessary supplies, equipment
and vehicles connected with the production and dissemination of farmer information through the following
media:



24
(a)    Video Productions and Dissemination: The project would modernize the MOAF and
AKKOR video centers with new equipment and materials for: (i) the establishment of
national and international agricultural video library in Moscow; (ii) the annual production
of 12 new video productions by the MOAF and 15 new productions by AKKOR
(Association of Peasant Farms and Cooperatives of Russia) which would focus on various
aspects of agricultural reforms; (iii) copying and distributing these videos to about 1200
rayons by the MOAF to existing video equipped farm community centers and to about
1200 rayon level AKKOR organizations; and (iv) airing 60 minutes weekly programs of
selected MOAF/AKKOR video productions dedicated to private farmers on national
television.
(b)   Electronic Infonmation: The development and dissemination of electronic information
will be integrated with the Market Information System. The FIAS component at the
federal, oblast and rayon levels will use personal computers, which have the ability to
interconnect with other computers in different locations. The FIAS specialist at the rayon
level would access specially designed databases and information bulletin boards for
serving the information needs of the various agricultural clients. Larger databases and
more complex farmer information packages would be developed at the oblast and the
federal levels, which would also be easily accessible at the rayon level and by the final
end-users. Given the lack of familiarity with the use of computers at the farm level, the
FIAS component would limit the dissemination of farmer information through electronic
media to the FIAS centers in 30 oblasts and 125 rayons.
(c)    Agricultural Fairs and Exhibitions: The project would provide support, in the form of
equipmeAt, vehicles and operating costs for holding exhibitions, as a pilot program, at
St. Petersburg to be sponsored jointly by MOAF and AKKOR. This program will focus
on promoting available farm technologies and also provide excellent opportunities for
foreign fms to display their products and technologies, which may lead to joint ventures
with local entrepreneurs.
(d)   Television, Radio and Print: The information developed by the FIAS component would
also be disseminated through national and regional television and radio stations and by
the existing printing facilities of the MOAF and those in the private sector. In this
regard, the MOAF would coordinate with the participating regional authorities and make
appropriate arrangements to disseminate information through television, radio and print
media in order to accomplish the objectives of the project.
(e)    Farmer Training Centers: The project will strengthen and modernize about five existing
farmer training centers to function as centers of excellence for training the trainers,
training agricultural extension workers, training far ners and for the development and
dissemination of multi-disciplinary farmer information. These training centers will be
located in the regions, and possibly one in Moscow, to train specialists essential for the
effective execution of the FIAS component. They would serve as focal points for training
the trainers, executing farmer training programs and conducting training programs for
rayon, oblast and federal FIAS and MIS staff. It is expected that these centers would
eventually become models for the development of new methodologies for farmer and
market information development and dissemination, skills development and would act as
a clearing house for the exchange of ideas and experience.



25
(f)    Pilot Programs: The project will test on a pilot basis: (i) development of proven Inter-
Active Video Disc Technology (IVDT) as an effective instruction tool for analyzing
various agricultural business options and this is already being done by the Institute of
Cybernetics (IC) at Pskov Oblast; (ii) the development and dissemination of location
specific environmental information; and (iii) bring experts (both Russian and foreign)
to the field through an electronic network to exchange information and advise on various
agricultural topics.
80.    Institutional Development.
(a)    Training. The project would support training of about 450 agricultural staff for the FIAS
centers at the federal, oblast and rayon levels; and about 6500 end-users representing a
wide range of emerging farm organizations and agro-business enterprises. Training for
the FIAS staff would consist of information needs assessment, information sourcing,
message development, packaging for multi-media, data collection techniques, data
analysis and presentation, computer software development, database design and
communicatimn systems and communication skills. Training for the end-users would
cover a wide range of topics, such as, how to start and operate a business, assessment
of business risks, keeping simple accounts, finance and management, project evaluation,
marketing, agricultural practices, legal and environmental aspects. The domestic training
will involve the local institutions supplemented by foreign experts, who will train the
trainers on topics related to farmer information development and dissemination, including
farm and enterprise management. The foreign training will consist of study tours to
selected foreign countries and short training programs in information development and
dissemination (see Annex 7 for further details).
(b)    Technical Assistance. The project would provide necessary technical assistance for
(i) the development of appropriate computer software for the FIAS component; (ii)
development of a transparent framework for a variety of international contractual
arrangements connected with the use of international copyright information used in the
FIAS component; and (iii) development of appropriate farmer information packages and
dissemination (see Annex 8 for futher details).
Geographical Coverage
81.     The general information developed by the FIAS component will be disseminated nationwide
using mass media. Client oriented location specific information and advisory services will be provided
through the FIAS centers located in 30 oblasts and in about 125 rayons in the major agricultural regions
of the country. The geographical coverage of the FIAS component is provided in Map No. IBRD 25150.
E. SEED INDusrRy DEVELOPMENT
Objectives
82.    The objectives of the seed industry development component are twofold: (a) to establish "pilot"
seed production, processing and marketing enterprises for hybrid corn and sunflower seeds in order to
demonstrate the commercial viability of modern seed industry; and (b) to establish an enabling policy and
institutional framework for the development of a competitive seed industry in the private sector.



26
Concept
83.    Crop yields in Russia are generally lower than those in ecologically similar areas of Europe and
North America. One of the main reasons for low yields is limited availability of quality inputs, of which
seed is critical. There are major problems with the seed sector in Russia. These are: (i) lack of
appropriate national seed policy, quality controls and laws; (ii) a widening gap between research and on-
farm applications; (iii) inefficient seed production, processing and treatment; (iv) a poor system of seed
storage and distribution; (v) lack of seed marketing system; (vi) poor quality and inefficient usage of
icds at the farn level; and (vii) lack of competition and limited inicentives to establish modem seed
industry in the private sector.
84.     The key features of the seed industry development component are (a) to change the orientation
of MOAF institutions to phase out direct participation in the commercial seed enterprises; (b) to establish
"pilot," seed enterprises to produce and market hybrid corn and sunflower seeds of international quality;
and (c) to strengthen the legal framework of key MOAF institutions to test and register new cultivars
(including those originating abroad), to provide laboratory and certification services to enterprises for
quality control, and to regulate the marketing of quality seeds. The pilot units will be owned by legally
registered, private joint-stock companies (some are recently privatized state and collective seed farms and
seed processing entities, or restructured farms originally attached to crop research institutes). The pilot
enterprises will be established in selected southern administrative regions which have comparative
advantage for the production of hybrid corn and sunflower seeds as well as the necessary experience in
seed production and processing.
Detailed Features
85.    The seed component has two sub-components. The first deals with the development of "pilot"
seed enterprises, and the second deals with institutional development, with primary focus on legal, policy,
institudonal and regulatory issues.
86.     Investment in Seed Enterprises. The development of seed enterprises will focus on the
establishment of commercially viable "pilot" units that would integrate the production and distribution
of seeds into one management structure. Sub-loans will be provided to eligible private enterprises after
they submit detailed investment proposals (which are subject to approval by the government and review
and clearance by the World Bank) that document the technical, organizational and financial feasibility of
the project. Three feasibility studies completed thus far indicate that the domestic cost of producing
quality (international standard) hybrid corn seed with facilities using imported equipment is lower than
the prevailing c.i.f. price for imported seed of comparable quality, and that the operations are profitable
without any subsidies. 'fo ensure that the project enterprises are not undermined by subsidized seed
imports and pricing policies, the Russian Govermnent has agreed to eliminate subsidies on the imported
or domestically produced corn and sunflower seeds and to liberalize seed prices. This commitment of
the government has been conveyed to the Bank through an official letter from the Minister of Finance.
87.     This project will provide sub-loans to participating private seed enterprises to build eight new
hybrid corn and two new hybrid sunflower seed processing facilities. On the average, each hybrid corn
seed processing unit of 5,000-ton capacity will cost approximately US$13 million, and each sunflower
seed plant of 2,000-ton capacity will cost approximately US$7 million. The new processing plants will
be designed to receive raw seed directly from the combine harvesters, and will include appropriate
facilities for receiving, drying, bulk storage, cleaning, grading, treating, packaging and storage of bagged
seed. In addition to the imnported seed processing equipment, new plant designs will be introduced that
will significantly improve seed quality, increase processing efficiency and lower production cost. Some



27
enterprises will purchase specialized field equipment to provide custom services for the contract seed
growers. New management approaches will be instituted at the enterprise level to improve the overall
technical and financial performance of the enterprises. This would include, amnong others, the preparation
of annual business plans, the establishment of marketing departments, activity-based accounting and initial
steps to begin new product development (variety testing and development, possibly in association with
foreign seed companies).
88.     About 27 enterprises have indicated their interest in being included in the project. Out of these,
ten enterprises have initiated feasibility studies for the establishment of new seed facilities. These
enterprises are legally registered as private joint stock companies and are recently privatized state or
collective farms and seed processing entities or privatized seed farms which were formerly attached to
research institutes. This initial group of potential participants will increase during project implementation.
Three seed enterprises have completed their feasibility studies and these sub-projects were considered
viable (during appraisal) for financing by the project. These three enterprises are: (i) Kubangibrid
(BARI) Seed Company in Krasnodar Kray; (ii) Kadgaron Seed Company in North Ossetia; and (iii)
Zolotoi Pochathok Seed Company in Voronezh Oblast.
89.     The ten "p.-ot" enterprises will provide sufficient experience and demonstrative impact in the
primary seed production zones of Russia and will lay the foundation for commercial seed production in
the future. The proposed investments wil! result in an annual additional capacity of 40,000 tons of hybrid
corn seed and 4,000 tons of hybrid sunflower seed by 1997. Financial analysis of the three corn seed
sub-projects indicate a rate of return of 12 percent in real terms (after paying interest charges on short
and long-term loans) at seed prices of approximately US$1100-1200 per ton. These prices are about 75
percent of the current cost of imported hybrid corn seed.
90.     Demand for high quality hybrid corn and sunflower seed is high and unsatisfied. At present,
farmers are willing to pay a premium for high quality seeds. Moreover, crop budgets indicate the
farmers' ability to pay substantially higher prices for high quality seed, especially since domestic grain
prices have increased significantly. Domestic corn grain prices range between between US$90-100 per
ton. At a typical hybrid seed-to-grain price ratio of 14:1 for hybrid corn seed, a hybrid corn seed price
could be between US$1260-1400 per ton. Prices of US$1100-1200 are justified by the feasibility studies
of three corn seed enterprises.
91.     All investments in seed enterprises will be carefully monitored by the PDU. The enterprises
receiving sub-loans will be assisted, as necessary, by the PDU. Any actions necessary to improve the
profitability of the enterprise will be recommended. The project will finance critical civil works and
imported equipment, including shellers, dryers, cleaners, sizing and grading units, gravity separators,
treaters, cyclone dust collectors, automatic weighing machines, precision planters, sprayers, harvesters
and de-tasselers. The criteria for selection of private seed enterprises for participation in the project and
eligibility for Bank financing are outlined in Annex 6.
92.     Institutional Development. A law for the protection of plant breeders' rights was enacted in
August 1993, and a basic seed law covering seed quality and seed marketing issues has been drafted and
is under review. The project will support the legislative process to ensure the compatibility of seed law
with recognized, international standards and conventions. A policy dialogue between the government and
emerging private sectors will be encouraged and institutionalized. Finally, institutions (such as
Gossortkomissia and Gosseminspektsia) charged with the implementation of reforms, as well as providing
key services to the seed enterprises, will be strengthened.



28
93.     The project will support the establishment of a National Seed Advisory Committee (NSAC),
with representatives from both the public and private sectors. The NSAC will advise the Minister of
Agriculture and Food on the development of a national seed policy, including the definition of the future
role of the MOAF in the development of a rnodern seed industry, legislation and accompanying
regulations, positive role of joint ventures, and other matters critical to the development of a modem seed
industry in Russia. In addition, the project will support the establishment of a non-governmental National
Seed Association (NSA). The NSA will provide a number of services to its members, including
information services, representation in different forums (domestic and international), and membership in
international seed trade associations such as the Federation of International Trade (also known as the
Federation Internationale du Commerce des Semences, or FICS).
94.       The project will enhance the capacity of the Russian Variety Registration Agency
(Gossortkomissia) to register crop varieties and hybrids for commercial seed production based on reliable
and timely trials and test results. Clients of Gossortkomissia include research institutes and seed
enterprises, both domestic and international. The project will upgrade equipment required for registration
and testing; provide specialized technical training to selected Gossortkomissia staff; and support
interaction with the international bodies involved with variety registrations (such as International Union
for Protection of Plant Varieties, UPOV).
95.     The project will strengthen the Russia Seed Inspection Agency (Gosseminspektsia) to provide
a range of services to the existing seed agencies and emerging seed enterprises. Gosseminspektsia will
help to assure that seed produced and sold within Russia conform to recogpized international standards
through field inspections and laboratory testing. Specific project interventions include international
training in seed certification programs and related technical skills. The project will provide laboratory
and field equipment to enhance the capacity and quality of results, and support the active membership
of Gosseminspektsia in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the
International Seed Testing Association (ISTA).
(a)    Training.  The training program for the investment sub-component will have two
principal audiences, the key management staff of participating seed enterprises and
investment analysts that assist in the preparation of feasibility studies. Eleven training
activities are planned, including visits for ongoing seed enterprises to study the
management and marketing aspects of the seed business, two courses in accounting, four
training programs in contract seed grower management and other technical topics, and
three programs to cover the subjects of strategic planning, project identification, project
prioritization and the preparation of feasibility studies. Training will be also provided
to policy makers and technical personnel of the MOAF Seed Division, Gossortkomissia
and Gosseminspektsia. Members of the NSAC will study current models of seed industry
organization and government policy in other countries in order to assist in the
development of a national seed policy in Russia. The technical personnel will be trained
(both in Russia and foreign countries) to upgrade their skills in their respective fields of
specialization (see Annex 7 for fiurther details).
(b)    Technical Assistance. The seed indLstry model to be implemented through this project
is new and the requisite expertise to manage this pilot activity is not available within
Russia. This is due to the fact that the investments entail imports of modern technology
(seed processing equipment) and the establishment of vertically integrated seed enterprises
that comprise activities from seed research and development to seed marketing. Both the
equipment and the management structure represent innovative reforms to the seed sector
for which local expertise is not available. The pilot nature of this activity necessitates the



29
provision of technical services to seed enterprises. The technical assistance will support
specialists to advise private entrepreneurs, evaluate the technical and financial risks and
screen potential investments. Technical assistance will also be provided to help
implement the plant breeders' rights legislation, to advise Gosseminspektsia on the
administration of the certification and seed testing programs, to help define the function
and role of the NSAC, and to help organize NSA by adopting successful organizational
models from other countries (see Annex 8 for further details).
Geographical Coverage
96.    Policy aspects of the project would cover the entire Russian Federation. The crop variety testing
and registration work will be supported in all the principal production areas where seeds will be
marketed. The strengthening of seed inspection would be limited to the areas where seed enterprises will
be established. The project area for the investment activities will be limited to the southern administrative
regions, including Krasnodar and Stavropol krays, Rostov, Belgorod, the southern part of Volgograd and
Voronezh oblasts, and such other regions as mnay be agreed between the Government and the Bank during
implementation. (see Map No. IBRD 25151).
F. PRoJECr DEVELOPMENT UNIT
Objective
97.    The objectives of the Project Development Unit (PDU) are two-fold: (i) to provide the Ministry
of Agriculture and Food with critically needed institutional support to implement the ARIS project; and
(ii) to develop much needed analytical capacity to prepare investment projects in. a fast changing
agricultural environment for financing by international financial institutions. App.opriate equipment,
training and technical assistance would be provided to the MOAF for undertaking this effort.
Concept
98.     Detailed review of World Bank projects in FSU countries indicates that implementation issues
are of paramount importance as structural changes bring about the need for new tpes of skills and
institutional capacity. In order for the ARIS project to be successfully implemented, it is crucial that
adequate and appropriate implementation capacity be developed in the MOAF. Adequate training and
technical assistance will be provided in those areas which are relatively new to the MOAF staff. The
ARIS project would support the establishment of a PDU to help accomplish the project's main goals.
The proposed Unit is expected to facilitate project implementation and project preparation.
Components
99.    The PDU has already been established within MOAF and will consist of two departments: (a)
the Project inplementation Department (PID) which will be responsible for coordinating project
implementation; and (b) Project Preparation Department (PPD) which will be responsible for developing
analytical capcity for preparing future agricultural projects. The PID will coordinate implementation with
the Component Implementation Units (CIUs) in MOAF, Moscow City, Moscow Oblast, Belgorod Oblast,
other participating regions and the participating private marketing and seed enterprises. These CIUs will
implement individual project components under the supervision of the PDU.



30
V
COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. COST ESTIMATES
Total Project Cost
100.   The estimated total project cost, including contingencies and applicable import duties, is US$325
million, of which 74 percent is foreign exchange cost. The total project cost, net of duties and taxes, is
about US$315 million, of which 76 percent is foreign exchange cost. Payable VAT is not included in
the project cost since it is refundable within about one year. Duties on the applicable imported equipment
and machinery are included as part of the local project cost. The share of local costs in total project costs
is low primarily due to the present undervalued exchange rate and hence low implied real resource cost
of local contributions. The respective shares of the project components in total project cost are 33 percent
for market infrastructure development, 20 percent for farm information and advisory services, 45 percent
for seed industry development and 2 percent for the PDU. The estimated cost of individual project
components and cost categories is reported in Table 5. 1.
Basis of Project Cost Estimates
101.   The base cost estimates were derived from mission analysis (in consultation with local
counterparts), surveys, feasibility studies and preparation reports. Price contingencies of 2.8 percent per
annum (compounded) were applied to all costs expressed in US dollars according to the average annual
price increase projected by the World Bank between 1992 and 2002. The physical contingencies are
assumed to be ten percent of the base costs for civil works and equipment in line with established Bank
practice and experience with similar projects worldwide. The detailed costs and approach for deriving
project cost estimates for individual project and cost components are provided in Annex 9.
B. FINANCING PLAN
Financing Sources
102.    The proposed Bank Loan of US$240 million would finance 100 percent of foreign exchange
costs of the project. The Bank Loan to the Russian Federation would have a maturity of 17 years,
including 5 years grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The Federal C-overnment, through
the MOAF, would finance all local costs including payment of applicable import duties and taxes, such
as VAT for the public sector components and sub-conponents. Similarly, the participating private
enterprises would finance local costs, including applicable duties and taxes, for private sector components
and sub-components. The proposed financing plan has been presented in Table 5.2. It was agreed during
negotiations, at the request of the Russian Delegation, to include a provision for retroactive financing in
the amount of up to US$1.0 million to cover expenditures under eligible categories beginning on June
1, 1994. The eligibility of such expenditures for reimbursement will be subject to the same conditions
as for other project expenditures, including procurement.



31
Table 5.1: Summary of Project Cost Estimates by Component
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Costs          Foreign    Component
as Percent   as Percent
Components                  Local    Foreign     Total     of Total     of Total
Market Infrastructure Development
Civil Works                            15.70      6.23      21.92       28.39        6.75
Equipment and Machinery                 0.68     44.18      44.86       98.48       13.80
Import Duty                             4.43       -         4.43         --         1.36
Operating Cost'                         9.78      6.53      16.31       40.01        5.02
Training                                 -        0.65       0.65       100.00       0.20
Technical Assistance                     --       2.75       2.75       100.00       0.85
Sub-Total                             30.59     60.32      90.92       66.35       27.97
Farmer Information and Advisory Services
Civil Works                             3.25      2.25       5.50       40.96        1.69
Equipment and Machinery                 0.07     24.23      24.31       99.70        7.48
Import Duty                             3.64       -         3.64         -          1.12
Operating Cost                         10.46       -        10.46         -          3.22
Training       -,                                 8.65       8.65       100.00       2.66
Technical Assistance                     -        1.81       1.81       100.00       0.56
Sub-Total                             17.41     36.94      54.35       67.96       16.72
Seed Industry Development
Civil Works                             5.30      6.07      11.37       53.40        3.50
Equipment and Machinery                 5.70      89.84     95.54       94.03       29.40
Import Duty                              -         -          -           -           -
Operating Cost                          14.0       -        14.00         -          4.31
Training                                 -        1.86       1.86       100.00       0.57
Technical Assistance                     -        1.49       1.49       100.00       0.46
Sub-Total                             25.00     99.26     124.26       79.88       38.23
Project Development Unit
Civil Works                              -         - _                    -           -
Equipment and Machinery                  -        0.24       0.24       100.00       0.07
Import Duty                             0.04       -         0.04         -          0.01
Operating Cost 2                        0.47      1.33       1.81       73.77        0.56
Training                                 -        1.73       1.73       100.00       0.53
Technical Assistance                     -        3.55       3.55       100.00       1.09
Sub-Total                             0.51       6.85       7.36       93.07        2.26
Total Base Cost                          73.52    203.37     276.89      73.45       85.20
Physical Contingencies                 3.88      17.30     21.18       81.68        6.52
Price Contingencies                    7.60      19.32     26.93       71.76        8.28
Total Project Cost                   l  85.00 3   240.00     325.00   |  73.85       100.00
Foreign component refers to incremental working capital to finance purchase of critical agricultural inputs.
2 Foreign component refers to paymrents for local consultants.
3 Of total project costs, about US$10 million are import duties. In addition, payable VAT (approximately US$45
million) is not included in the project cost since it is refundable within about one year.



32
TABLE 5.2: Financing Plan by Institutions
(US$ milions equivalent)
|     Financing Source          Local           Foreign    J     Total       Percent of Total
IBRD                                            240.0           240.0            73.8
Federal Government             40.2             -               40.2             12.4
Participating Private Enterprises  44.8                      -  44.8             13.8
Total                          85.0            240.0            325.0           100.0
[Pert of Total          |      26.2             7 73.8          100.0     | _
Counterp-.it Funds
103.   Sustainability of the project depends, to a large extent, on the availability of budgetary resources
to finance local costs. The counterpart funds would be provided by the Federal Government through the
MOAF, and by participating private enterprises to finance local costs associated with the project. The
Bank has obtained written assurances from the Government that MOAF was given approval by the
Ministry of Finance and other concerned ministries (and by participating private enterprises) on
satisfactory arrangements for securing funds, including budgetary allocations for programs to be
implemented during the first year of project implementation and a commitment for budgetary support in
subsequent years. Expenditures at the oblast, rayon and city level would be supported by the MOAF
which would allocate the necessary funds during the annual budget process. The World Bank has also
obtained assurances during negotiations that the Ministry of Finance intends to introduce, beginning in
FY95, a line item in the Federal Budget for the ARIS project; all special budgetary allocations would be
restricted for the sole use of the ARIS project; and that they would be carried forward to a subsequent
year when not completely used within the year of allocation. Furthermore, the Project Account to receive
counterpart funds, exclusively to finance local expenditures for the ARIS project, will be established (with
an initial deposit of at least US$1.0 million equivalent) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank prior to loan effectiveness. The participating private enterprises would cover all
of the local expenditure which could be between 15-35 percent of the total cost for individual sub-
projects.
Cofinancing
104.    Training and technical assistance components are about 8 percent of the total project cost. If
the Government of the Russian Federation is successful in obtaining other bilateral grant funds for this
purpose, then the use of Bank funds for this purpose would either be reduced correspondingly or
reallocated to other components following appropriate review and approval by the World Bank.
C. SPECLAL AccouNT
105.     The Special Account (SA) would be maintained in a commercial bank selected by the
Government and acceptable to the World Bank. This bank would be selected, from a number of
acceptable banks, on the basis of competitive bids. Selection criteria for participation in the bids are: (i)
the bank should be financially sound as demonstrated by their latest accounts, as audited by an
internationally recognized accounting firm; (ii) the bank should have a significant foreign correspondence
network covering all major currencies; (iii) the bank should have a reasonable capacity and experience
for issuing letters of credit, for making direct foreign payments and other international transactions, with
appropriate arrangements for the training and development of their staff; (iv) the bank should be capable



33
of performing a wide range of local banking services, including cash payments, transfers to other
domestic banks, issuance of debit notes, application of conversion rates from foreign currencies, and
maintenance of adequate accounts for the SA; (v) the bank should preferably be a member of SWIFT
(Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications) and should routinely use or plan to use
this facility to expedite payment transfers; (vi) the bank should be willing to issue a Comfort Letter to
assure that amounts deposited in a Special Account will not be set off or otherwise seized or attached to
satisfy amounts due to the commercial bank by the borrower; (vii) the bank should be willing to maintain
adequate accounts as required by the World Bank, provide monthly bank statements to the World Bank
and the PDU, and any other information considered necessary (copies of all transactions would be
routinely submitted to the PDU); and (viii) the bank should be willing to charge reasonable rates for their
services and provide reasonable interest on balances held from time to time. Broadly, the same criteria
would apply to select a comnmercial bank which would serve as an agency bank to manage the sub-loan
accounts. It would be preferable to have one bank manage both the Special Account and the sub-loan
accounts. Agreement on the selection procedures for a commercial bank to manage the Special Account
was reached during negotiations.
106.   The maximum authorized allocation of the SA will be US$1.0 million. The overall authorized
allocation will, however, depend on the short-term need of the project. The account will be opened in
the name of the Borrower (MOAF will provide specific names of personnel authorized to withdraw funds
from the Special Account) and would be administered by the PDU which will send requests to the World
Bank for replenishment of the Special Account. These requests would be accompanied by detailed
monthly bank statements of the Special Account.
D. FLOW OF FUNDS
107.    The proceeds of the loan would be channelled in two ways. First, funds to the federal
government agencies would be channelled as special line items through the budgetary process. Second,
due to lack of established financial intermediation mechanisms and the "pilot" nature of sub-projects, the
funds for financing investments by the participating private seed and marketing enterprises will be
channelled by the Government, under agency agreements acceptable to the World Bank.
108.   Under this second arrangement, the commercial banks would serve as agency banks primarily
to maintain accounts and recover these sub-loans on behalf of the Government and will be paid a
commission to perform these functions. These banks would be selected on the basis of competitive bids.
The Federal Government would bear the default risk. The PDU would be responsible for the appraisal
of all sub-projects which are subject to review and clearance by the World Bank. However, at least the
first three sub-projects for each of the seed and marketing enterprises will be appraised by the Bank. The
Project Coordination Committee (PCC) would approve all sub-projects for Bank financing upon the
recommendation of PDU and concurrence by the Bank. These on-lending arrangements are different
from those under the proposed Enterprise Support Project because of the special needs of the agricultural
sector and the "pilot" character of the investments involved. The Federal government and enterprises
will enter into a sub-loan agreement outlining the terms and conditions of sub-loans and cost recovery
arrangements. These arrangements were agreed during negotiations.
109.  The majority of the World Bank's financing would be used for payments to foreign suppliers of
goods and services, either through the Special Account or direct from the World Bank. Where the World
Bank fliances locally incurred expenditures, this would be on reimbursable basis. The participating
private enterprise and/or the government agency would first incur and make payment of the expenditure,
submit withdrawal applications to the PDU, which would initiate reimbursement from the Special Account
for the portion of the expenditure to be financed by the World Bank under the project.



34
110.  The PDU would include, in its accounting arrangements, procedures for recording all financing
provided by the World Bank whether as sub-loans to individual participating private enterprises and/or
to government agencies. The amounts to be recovered under the project would form sub-loans which are
discussed in the following section on "on-lending". The PDU, on behalf of the Government, would enter
into agency agreements with selected commercial banks and participating private enterprises, acceptable
to the World Bank, to monitor and recover repayment (principal plus interest) of these sub-loans for a
commnission to be determined during implementation.
111.   The Government's share of financing would be limited to the expenditures incurred by its own
agencies in the MOAF and agricultural departments of the participating oblast and rayons. This would
be financed directly from their budgets and in accordance with their normal procedures, with appropriate
records maintained for the Project and reported in their regular quarterly accounts/reports. The
expenditure to be financed by the participating private enterprises would be financed directly by them,
some of which would be reimbursed by the World Bank, as per disbursement guidelines. These
enterprises would also be required to maintain appropriate records subject to audit and included in their
regular quarterly accounts/reports.
E. ON-LENDiNG TERMS
112.    The prevailing macroeconomic instability makes it very difficult to devise appropriate rubkr-
based on-lending terms. Therefore, the Bank and the Ministry of Finance have agreed that the sub-o'ains
to participating private enterprises will be in US dollars. The interest rate to sub-borrowers would be
the Bank's standard variable interest rate (the base rate) plus a margin of 2.5 percent. This rate will cover
administrative costs, including commission to commercial banks for processing recovery of subloans, and
the cross-currency exchange and the default risks. These sub-loans to the participating private enterprises
would be for a maturity period of 10 years, including 2 years grace. Since the amount outstanding and
the repayment would be in US dollars, the foreign exchange risk (between the US dollar and the ruble)
would be borne by the sub-borrowers. However, the Federal Government would bear the cross-currency
risk between the basket of currencies in Bank loan and the US dollar.  In the event that there is
insufficient demand for project funds allocated for investment sub-projects, the portion of the loan for
the investment components would be utilized either for similar investments that are consistent with project
concepts and covenants or, if this is not feasible, would be cancelled and would not be reallocated to
other comnponents. Investment sub-projects would be subject to sensitivity analysis to test the viability
under various assumptions about the foreign exchange rate, interest rate and outpu.t price.
113.   A number of "pilot" commercial enterprises would be sub-borrowers under the marketing and
seed components. These enterprises must meet the agreed selection criteria and must be commercially
viable based on feasibility studies (see Annex 6). The financing arrangements for the participating private
enterprises would be as follows:
e   The feasibility studies for potential sub-projects will be prepared as per World Bank
guidelines which have already been discussed with potential sub-borrowers. These feasibility
studies will be appraised by the PDU and will be reviewed by independent experts, including
physical inspections and other field work. However, at least the first three sub-projects for
each of the seed and marketing enterprises would be appraised by the Bank. The selected
proposals will be recommended by the PDU for approval by the PCC (which will include
representatives, inter alia, from MOAF, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of
Economy) and concurrence by the World Bank. These arrangements were agreed during
negotiations.



35
0   Sub-loan agreements would be concluded between the Govermnent (the MOAF and the
Ministry of Finance) and each of the participating private enterprises. The (PDU),
representing the MOAF as a participant in the sub-project, would countersign the agreement,
ensuring appropriate arrangements for carrying out its responsibilities for monitoring
compliance with contractual provisions on the private enterprises' use of sub-loan and
repayment. These arrangements were agreed during negotiations.
O   The principal amount of financing for a given sub-loan would be calculated in US dollars on
the basis of the current exchange rate, on the date of payment of each eligible expenditure.
Repayment of principal and interest would also be made in U.S. dollars or in ruble
equivalent amount based on the foreign exchange rate prevailing on the repayment date.
*   Repayment schedule for sub-loans would be established to reflect the private enterprises'
ability to repay the sub-loans, but would not exceed 10 years, including a two-year grace
period. Interest would accrue from date of disbursement and repayments would be required
on a quarterly basis.
*   Repayment of principal and interest would be made by the enterprises and would be
deposited for credit through an agreed account in a local bank to be designated by the MOF.
*   Any surplus reflows (the difference between borrower's repayment obligations to the Bank
and sub-borrowers' repayments to the borrower) will be used on a revolving basis, and on
similar terms and conditions, to finance similar private sub-projects acceptable to the Bank.
*   Collateral (in the form of assets) would be required from the participating private enterprises
in favor of the government as a preferred creditor and would be included in the sub-loan
agreement.
o   During negotiations, the Russian Delegation assured the Bank that legal and administrative
decisions to make sub-loans to private enterprises could be taken on the basis of adequate
existing legal capacity possessed by the Government.
114.   The participating private enterprises are expected to be able to bear the foreign exchange risk
even though their output (seed, for example) will be sold in local currency. This is because the project
seed enterprises are expected to be commercially viable at liberalized seed prices and seed would remain
in short supply even after the project-financed seed enterprises are fully operational.
F. Cosr REcovERY
115.  The proposed ARIS project wi d finance activities in the public and private sectors. The
participating private enterprises as "pilo sub-projects would account for about 60 percent of the loan
proceeds. These funds would be on-lent by the government to these enterprises. These sub-loans would
be repaid with interest to the government within the agreed term of the sub-loan which generally will not
exceed 10 years.
116.  The remaining 40 percent of loan proceeds would finance much needed public sector activities
to develop and disseminate information to private farmers, restructured farms and agro-business
enterprises and institutional support to private seed industry. The project would introduce the concept
of "fee for service' for selected services. The immediate goal of the fees will not be full cost recovery,
but rather establishment of the "fee for service" principle. Fee will be set at a level so as not to



36
discourage farmers from seeking information and advisory services and no fees will be charged initially.
Ultimately, the goal is to be able to recover 100 percent of incremental operating cost for selected
activities.
117.  Agreement was reached with the Government during negotiations on the following three cost
recovery principles for services provided by the public sector. These are: (i) the establishment of fee
schedule for selected services in 1995; (ii) introduction of fee for service and other appropriate cost
recovery measures in 1996; and (iii) the establishment, operation and use of a "fund" in the MOAF from
resources collected through fees or other cost recovery measures in 1996. The details would be worked
out during project implementation. Progress and plans for cost recovery would be part of mid-term
review of the project. The Bank will work with the Government to design a cost recovery strategy in
order to generate adequate resources to sustain the project work.
G. PROCUREMNT
118.  The procurement of all goods funded from the loan proceeds would be in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992)". Local goods
would be eligible for a preference as provided in the Procurement Guidelines. The Bank's standard
bidding documents for the Procurement of Goods and the Construction of (Smaller) Works will be used
for International Competitive Bidding (ICB), Limited International Bidding (LIB) and Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB). Consultants for training and technical assistance would be employed in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing
Agency (August 1981)". Details of the, procurement arrangements and procurement agencies are provided
in Annex 10. The methods of procurement, proposed for the ARIS project, are summarized in Table 5.3.
119.  Civil Works. Construction would consist of a large number of market facilities. US$6.6 million
would be bid via ICB. US$18.0 million is for construction of many scattered works with contract values
between US$100,000 and US$1 million by various enterprises which would be let through local
competitive procedures satisfactory to the Bank, and US$0.3 million would be contracted through local
shopping with at least three quotations. All civil works and turnkey contracts for seed processing plants,
consisting of US$7.2 million in works and US$83.8 million in equipment, would be bid by ICB and
prequalification would be used. LCB would also be subject to prequalification. Renovation works
(US$4.4 million) consist of repair to numerous government offices which would be carried out by local
public works agencies with US$1.2 million by force account financed by the agencies and imported
inputs, US$3.2 million (fixtures, soundproofing, security devices), acquired through International
Shopping.
120.  Goods. Computer and communication equipment costing US$47.3 million would be acquired
through ICB. Turnkey equipment, valued at US$83.8 equipment, would be included with the turnkey
civil works and obtained via ICB. Equipment and machinery would include a variety of items for the
MIS, FIAS, and Seed components and would total US$61.9 million, of which US$44.2 million would
be procured under ICB, US$10.2 million would be procured by LIB, US$4.4 million by IS, US$0.1
million could be direct purchase, and US$3.0 million by the enterprises with their own funds. These
items would be bulked to the extent feasible but as they would be distributed among various enterprises
and required in different years of the implementation period, these purchases will be below the limit for
ICB. Materials inputs for US$7.3 million would be purchased through IS by the several market
enterprises throughout the implementation period.
121.  Procurement Thresholds. Civil works contracts expected to exceed US$1.0 million would be
let through ICB. Civil works contracts between US$100,000 and US$1 million would be let through



37
local competitive procedures which would be satisfactory to the Bank and Local Shopping would be used
below US$100,000. Equipment would be bulked to the maximum practical extent and packages greater
than US$0.5 million would be bid by ICB. Equipment packages between US$300,000 and US$500,000
would be contracted with LIB; below US$300,000 International Shopping would be used with three
quotations from three eligible countries. Direct equipment procurement for the FIAS component up to
US$100,000 would be permitted.
Table 5.3 Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ milion equivalent)
|         Procurement Method 
Cost Component                 .                                       NBF        TOTAL
l _  _  _  _  _   _  __  _  _  _  _  _   _       ICB         LCD      |T  l ER    
1. Works
Construction                                6.6         18.0          0.3                    24.9
(1.9)       (5.1)         (0.1)                   (7.1)
Turnkey                                     7.2                                   6.3         13.5
(7.2)                                             (7.2)
Renovation                                                            4.4         3.8         8.2
(3.2)                  (3.2)
2. Goods
Computer and Communications                47.3                                              47.3
(47.3)                                            (47.3)
Turnkey                                    83.8                                   4.0        87.8
(83.8)                                            (83.8)
Equipment and Machinery                    44.2                       14.7        3.0        61.9
(44.2)                    (13.9)                  (58.1)
Materials                                                             7.3                     7.3
(7.3)                  (7.3)
3. Consulting Services
Training                                                              14.2                   14.2
(14.2)                 (14.2)
Technical Assistance                                                  11.8                   11.8
(11.8)                 (11.8)
4. Miscellaneous
Operating Costs                                                                   38.4       38.4
Import Duties                                                                     9.7         9.7
Total Project Cost                          189.1         18.0         52.7    J   65.2       325.0
l (Banlk Flnancing) b                        (184.4)       (5-1)        (50.5)              |(240.0) l
ICB: International Competitive Bidding
LCB: Local Competitive Bidding
Others: Refers to Limited International Bidding (LIB) US$10.2 million, International Shopping (IS) US$14.9 million,
Local Shopping (LS) US$0.3 million, Direct Contract (DC) US$0.1 million, and Force Account (PA) US$1.2
million, as well as US$14.2 million for training and US$11.8 million for technical assistance, both of which
will be obtained in accordance with the Bank's Consultant Guidelines.
NBF: Non-Bank Financed
b  Figures in parentheses refer to Bank financing.



38
122.  Training. Training would consist of assistance from foreign and national institutions, with visits
abroad, as well as local training assisted by foreign trainers. The terms of reference and the conditions
of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank. Further details are contained in Annex 7.
123.  Technical Assistance. Technical assistance would include short-term consulting assignments, and
longer-term assignments as well as staff for the PDU and ClUs which would be selected in accordance
with procedures agreed with the Bank. Long-term assignments would be obtained via competitive
proposals from consultant firms. Short assignments of a month or two would be met by consultants
recruited individually or from the consultant firms as proved most suitable to requirements. Selection
would be made according to the Bank Consultant Guidelines. The terms of reference and the conditions
of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank. Further details are contained in Annex 8.
124.  Prior Review. Procurement documentation for all contracts such as ICB, LIB and Direct
Contract (DC) contracts as well as first two LCB packages under each component and all contracts in
excess of US$500,000 for works, would be subject to prior review. This is estimated to cover 90 percent
of the total procurement value and could entail 150 contract awards, of which half may be for computer
and communications equipment. The other contracts financed from the loan funds would be subject to
selected post review during the supervision of the project. The bidding documents would use the Bank's
standard bidding documents for all contracts financed by the loan proceeds. All consultant services will
be procured with Bank's prior review of complete documentation and Bank's standard docum.entation will
be used.
125. Procurement Arrangements. The PDU would be responsible for the overall supervision of
procurement under the project. The PDU would have procurement personnel and technical experts to
advise and assist in project procurement and project implementation Government departments and public
agencies would use a selected procurement agent for procurement. Each of the private enterprises would
also be required to use a qualified procurement agent. During  e mid-term review of the project, the
continued use of the procurement agents would be assessed i. the light of experience gained and the
procurement capabilities developed by the component implementation units and the PDU.   Further
details on project procurement arrangements and monitoring are provided in Annex 10.
126.  The procurement agent for the public agencies would be selected from a short list prepared by
the PDU in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. The PDU would prepare a longer list of eight to
twelve qualified procurement firms for selecting procurement agents by the private enterprises. From
this list, selection will be made in accordance with criteria of qualifications and price in the invitation for
proposals. The selection would be based upon experience and administrative capacity, in combination
with fee levels. The fees of the procurement agents would be eligible for disbursement from the loan
proceeds.
H. DISBURSEMENT
127.    The project is expected to be completed within a five-year period, with the completion date
being December 31, 1999. This disbursement profile is based on Bank experience in financing similar
projects in other countries. The World Bank funds would be disbursed either directly or through the
Special Account on the basis of "Withdrawal Requests" signed by authorized signatories under the control
of the Project Development Unit.
128. The World Bank's financing would follow the normal World Bank disbursement procedures as
summarized in the Disbursement Handbook. Loan proceeds would be disbursed against eligible project
expenditures, either (a) directly to suppliers; (b) by means of special commitments to support letters of



39
credit issued by the borrower's bank in favor of foreign suppliers of goods; or (c) by way of
reimbursement to participating private enterprises/agencies where expenditures have already been
incurred.
129.   Disbursements would be made against eligible project expenditures for: (a) 100 percent of the
contract amount for the turnkey projects (which will cover equipment, installation and related civil work;
(b) 30 percent of expenditure on civil works; (c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures on goods, 100
percent of local expenditure on goods (ex-factory) and 75 percent of other items procured locally; and
(d) 100 percent of expenditures on consultant services, training, and technical assistance and procurement
services. Disbursements for contracts of or above US$100,000 equivalent would be made against full
documentation, and for those less than this amount will be made against Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). Eligible goods, works and services procured after June 1, 1994 would qualify for retroactive
financing in an amount up to US$1.0 million. Full documentation in support of SOEs would be retained
by the implementing agencies for at least two years after disbursement. This information would be
available for review by the World Bank staff during supervision and the auditors. The estimated
disbursements of IBRD loan are presented in Table 5.4.
Table 5.4 Estimated Disbursements of IBRD Loan
(JS$ million equivalent)
Category                Amount of         Percent of Expenditure to be
.  Loan AlUocated            Financed
1. Turnkey Contracts                   76         100%
2. Civil Works                          7          30%
3. Equipment, Machinery, Material
and Supplies                        95        100%  of foreign,
100% of local (ex-factory) and
75% of other items procured locally
4. Consultants' Services and           22         100%
Training
5. Unallocated                         40
Total                               240
I. ACCOUNTING
130.    The Project would have an accounting and control system capable of reliably recording and
reporting all financial transactions. An appropriate accounting and control system would be put in place
by the PDU. This system must be operational when project expenditures begin. For the use of
Statements of Expenditure, the PDU would process and maintain SOE documentation to be satisfactory
to the World Bank. For the Special Account mechanism, the PDU and the depository commercial bank
would introduce arrangements for proper accounting of receipts, payments and submission of
disbursement documentation to the World Bank for replenishment of the account.



40
J. REPORTING
131.   The World Bank requires the financial performance and status of a project and borrower to be
monitored regularly during implementation. As a result, the Project Development Unit would provide
quarterly financial reports to the World Bank throughout the monitoring period. These financial reports
would be classified into two categories: project specific and participating agencies.
132.    The quarterly and annual accounts for the project will report on the cash receipts and
expenditures related to each component and the overall financial performance of the project. The detailed
accounts for the project would not only include expenditures directly financed by the World Bank, but
also the expenditures financed by the participating private agencies and the government agencies. These
reports would reflect actual activity versus planned expenditure for the most recent fiscal quarter, fiscal
year-to-date and project inception-to-date. The format and individual classification of receipts and
expenditures has been designed and was agreed upon between the Russian Government and the World
Bank (see Annex 11) during negotiations and will be distributed to the accounting officer in the PDU and
to the accountants in the individual component implementation units.
133.   As SOEs and a SA will be used in this project, the PDU would be requested to submit, together
with accounts for the projects, on a quarterly basis: (i) a schedule of SOE expenditures and amounts, and
(ii) a summary of the SA account activity and reconciliation withi the SA balance in the commercial bank
account and the project account. All uwiudited quarterly reports are to be submitted to reach the World
Bank no later than 30 days after the end of the quarter.
134.    The annual financial statements that will be required of participating private enterprises will
comprise a balance sheet, a statement of income and expenditures and a statement of sources and
applications of funds. The financial statements would be prepared by the participating pr; 'ate enterprises
on an annual basis, following the generally accepted accounting principles as prescribed oy Russian law,
together with any additional information that may be required by the World Bank.
135.   In addition, the participating private enterprises would provide to the PDU, on a quarterly basis,
unaudited accounts for the sub-projects summarizing the cash receipts and expenditures, by components
financed (e.g., civil works, equipment). The account will include not only the expenditures directly
financed by the World Bank, but also the expenditures financed by the participating private enterprises
themselves. The account for the sub-project would reflect activity for the most recent fiscal quarter,
fiscal year-to-date and project inception-to-date. The format and individual classification of this report
has also been designed and agreed upon between the Russian Government and the World Bank during
negotiations and will be distributed to the accounting officer of the individual participating private
enterprises and the accounting officer in the PDU. All unaudited quarterly reports are to be submitted
to reach the World Bank no later than 30 days after the end of the quarter.
136.   Quarterly project reports on the physical performance of the project showing actual and planned
performance for the quarter and accumulated to date would also be prepared and submitted to the Bank.
These reports, also submitted to reach the Bank no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, would
include comments highlighting project progress and significant bottlenecks, showing an action plan for
remedial actions where necessary. Detailed reporting requirements would be finalized during the project
launch workshop and would include key physical and financial indicators. In addition, a comprehensive
joint mid-term review (MTR), would be carried out by the PDU and the Bank, within three months from
the end of 30 months from project effectiveness. Agreement on reporting procedures, accounts for the
project, financial statements and monitoring targets was reached during negotiations.



41
K. AuDrTNG
137.   Annual accounts for the project, including SOEs and SA for each fiscal year, would be audited
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by an independent auditor, acceptable to the
World Bank. The sub-borrowers would also provide, to the PDU, annual financial statements and
accounts for the sub-project which are audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
by an independent auditor, acceptable to the World Bank.
138.   The auditors would be appointed by the borrower and sub-borrowers close to the beginning of
the fiscal year, so that the auditors may commence reviews sufficiently early in the fiscal year to complete
the audit on a timely basis. Terms of Reference for the auditors, acceptable to the World Bank, would
need to be prepared. The financial statements and the auditor's opinion and reports should be submitted
to the World Bank no later than six months after completion of the fiscal year. Agreement on auditing
requirements was reached during negotiations.
VI
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MOAF)
139.   The MOAF is in charge of supervising the preparation and implementation of the ARIS project.
The MOAF, through its departments and agencies, will implement different components of the project
at the federal, oblast and rayon levels through appropriately organized and staffed Component
implementation Units (CIUs). It will work with the departments of agriculture at the oblast and rayon
levels. These departments are part of the oblast administrations. At the federal level, the project comes
under the jurisdiction of three Deputy Ministers. The market infrastructure development component,
except the MIS sub-component, will be implemented by the Deputy Minister responsible for agrarian
policy. However, the MIS component, which would be implemented by the Department of Prices and
Price Policy, will be directly under the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture and Food.  The
Farmer Information and Advisory Services component will be implemented by the Deputy Minister
responsible for science and education. Finally, the seed development component will be implemented
by the Deputy Minister responsible for agrarian production and technological policy.
Establishment of PDU
140.    Rationale. The ARIS project, involving multiple agencies at the federal, oblast and rayon
levels, requires a strong and independent project management unit for successful implementation. Given
the limited experience of the MOAF in the implementation of externally funded projects, coupled with
the need to provide on-the-job training to Russian experts, the Government has already established the
PDU to coordinate the management and implementation of the ARIS project.
141.   An interagency Project Coordination Committee (PCC) will be established to assist and advise
the Minister of Agriculture and Food (who will chair this Committee) to implement the ARIS project,
to approve applications for sub-loans to participating private enterprises and to establish priorities for
preparing agricultural projects. The PCC will comprise a membership representing, inter alia, MOAF,
the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy. This PCC would meet periodically to address
implementation problems that would require inter-ministerial coordination and intervention.



42
142.    Structure and Functions of the PDU. The Minister of Agriculture and Food, will be
responsible, through the PDU, for the management of the proposed ARIS Project. The PDU director
will report directly to the Minister of Agriculture and Food and will be empowered through its charter
to: (a) recruit highly qualified staff; (b) coordinate the implementation of the ARIS project; (c) open and
operate accounts in foreign currency; and (d) select and supervise professional consulting services. The
PDU has already been established, and the PDU director has been appointed, by an ordinance of the
Minister of Agriculture and Food.
143.    The PDU will consist of two departments: (i) Project Implementation Department (PID); and
(ii) Project Preparation Department (PPD). Each of these departments will be headed by a deputy
director whose selection and appointment would be the responsibility of the Minister, with the
concurrenee of the World Bank. The detailed organizational structure, functions, staffing plans,
recruitment of staff, operational procedures and authority of the PDU were agreed during negotiations
(see Annex 12 for details).
144.   The PID would coordinate the implementation of the ARIS project. It will have three sections
(Market, Information and Seed) which will deal with implementation of each of the three main ARIS
components. The PID staff, with sufficient technical experience and qualification, would coordinate and
monitor the implementation of various components and sub-components of the ARIS Project. Foreign
consultants would be engaged to provide necessary support for procurement, accounting and project
management. The procurement and accounting specialists would work with the Russian staff preparing
them to take full responsibility in these areas. The project management specialists would work with PID
Deputy Director and report to the PDU Director.
145.   The PPD would develop much needed analytical capacity in Russia for identifying and preparing
sub-projects under the ARIS Project and new agricultural projects for financing by the international
financial institutions. This department would consist of economists, financial analysts, technical
specialists, and experts in agricultural project management. The PPD would also engage staff/consultants
with specific technical expertise to meet specific needs. The foreign experts, with skills in these broad
areas, would work with the Russian staff to prepare priority projects dealing with different aspects of
agricultural development. The Bank will review the TORs and selection of consultants. The reports will
be jointly reviewed by the SLC and the Bank.
146.   PDU Staffing. The PDU would be headed by a competent director who has been selected and
appointed by the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The PDU will be staffed by both local and foreign
experts. The PDU would have a competent (i) Finance Officer with appropriate qualification and
experience in international accounting practices to be responsible for the introduction and management
of all financial and accounting matters required for project implementation and preparation; (ii)
Procurement Officer trained in the procurement procedures of the World Bank with the ability to train,
direct and guide procurement activities of all participating agencies associated with the implementation
of the ARIS Project; and (iii) Project Management Specialist with appropriate qualifications to manage
externally funded projects. These three appointments will require concurrence of the World Bank. The
PDU director has been appointed and the appointment of other key Russian PDU staff would be
completed prior to loan effectiveness.
147.   All the Russian PDU staff will be recruited locally. Deputation from the civil service will be
allowed but only on a temporary basis. Most of the staff appointments would be fixed-term and will be
designed to complete a specific assigmnent. This is essential to give the PDU the flexibility to change
its staff mix to reflect the agricultural project portfolio under preparation and implementation. All the
critical PDU staff will be expected to have a working knowledge of spoken and written English. The



43
local PDU staff would be supported by foreign experts who would also train Russian experts in project
implementation and preparation.
148.    The Minister of Agriculture and Food, in consultation with the PCC, will outline the
responsibilities and the decision-making process for project implementation. In other words, the
responsibilities of the PDU, the CIUs, the PCC and the Minister (who will also be the Chairman of the
PCC) will be clearly defined for effective implementation of the project.
B. PROJECT LMLEMENTATION
149.   The MOAF will be responsible for implementing the ARIS project. The PDU will coordinate
all the work related to budgeting, procurement, disbursement audit, reporting, monitoring/evaluation and
appraisal of all the sub-projects. Actual implementation of project components and sub-components will
be the responsibility of individual CIUs located within departments and agencies of MOAF and in local
government agencies. The CIUs will be established and their heads will be appointed prior to loan
effectiveness. The success of project implementation, therefore, depends on the working relations between
the PDU, the CIUs and the regional authorities or agencies for each of the three components. Details
on the organizational structure and staffing of agencies or units responsible for project imnplementation
are presented in Annex 12. MOAF shall take necessary steps to secure appropriate assurances for project
support from participating regional authorities. A brief description of various government agencies
involved in the implementation of individual components and sub-components is provided in Anmex 13.
Market Infrastructure Development Component
150.   Market Information System. The Department of Prices and Price Policy (DPP) in the MOAF
will have the primary responsibility for itnplementation of the MIS. DPP will report directly to the
Minister of Agriculture and Food and PDU. It will establish "Agricultural Marketing Information Unit,"
which would be responsible for day-to-day management of MIS. At the oblast and rayon levels, the local
departments of agriculture will also establish "Agricultural Marketing Information Units" to perform
similar functions.
151.   The MOAF Computer Center (MOAFCC) will implement all aspects related to the establiishment
of the computer network. MOAFCC will provide technical assistance on system configuration,
procurement of equipment, integration of systems, and development and installation of software, as
needed for all agencies under MOAF. They will provide maintenance and repair services to support
oblast and rayon centers. MOAFCC will develop a training program for computer operators at all levels.
Furthermore, at the oblast and rayon levels, the use of computers would be combined, as much as
possible, by MIS and FIAS, thereby reducing initial project and operational cost.
152.    Pilot Market Investments.  The market investment component comprises of three sub-
components. The Moscow City and Moscow and Belgorod Oblast sub-components would be implemented
by the three Component Implementation Units to be established by local governments. Implementation
Units in two participating regions would be established prior to loan effectiveness. Detailed feasibility
studies are being prepared by participating private enterprises with assistance from local design institutes
and independent local and foreign experts. The Bank preparation and appraisal missions have developed
indicative designs and layouts for major sub-projects in collaboration with concerned enterprises. The
PDU will: (a) review the sub-project feasibility studies; (b) arrange preparation of technical specifications
for each sub-project, coordinate with the PDU Procurement Officer for the procurement of imported
equipment, goods and services, and coordinate with the PDU Financial Officer for the payments, as
necessary; (c) coordinate the activities of the CIUs at Moscow City, Moscow Oblast and Belgorod Oblast



44
to ensure that procurement of local equipment and services, those funded by the Project, follow the World
Bank procurement guidelines; (d) coordinate with the "agency" bank activities related to accounting,
reporting and recovery of sub-loans; and (e) ensure that adequate accounting and reporting is maintained
to monitor the expenditures. The sub-projects approved by the PCC, in each of the three investment sub-
components, will be subject to prior review and concurrence by the Bank. The World Bank would
appraise at least the first three sub-projects dealing with private marketing enterprises.
Farmer Information and Advisory Services Component
153.   The primary responsibility for the implementation of the FIAS component is the MOAF. It has
designated the All-Russian Scientific Research Institute of Innovation and Marketing in Agriculture
(ASRIIMA) and its affiliates at the oblast and rayon levels as the responsible agencies for implementing
the FIAS component. The implementation of the FIAS component also involves the active participation
of various autonomous agencies outside the administrative jurisdiction of the MOAF, viz., the AKKOR
and several research and scientific institutes who would be the primary sources of information. In order
to ensure coordination, a FIAS advisory committee would be formed consisting of representatives from
the MOAF's Information and Video Unit, AKKOR, IIC, RAAS and end-users to advise the head of the
FIAS Component Implementation Unit.
Seed Industry Development Component
154.    The project officer dealing with the seed component in the PDU will coordinate the seed
components and will oversee the execution by different agencies (MOAF, NSAC, Gosseminspektsia,
Gossortkomissia, and NSA); provide technical and management advice to mobilize financial resources
for project implementation; and organize training to strengthen human resources and institutions to
promote a modem seed industry in Russia.
155.   Development of Seed Enterprises. The coordination of the on-lending program and investment
monitoring to seed enterprises will be implemented by the PDU. The proejct officer (seed development)
and an independent foreign expert on seed enterprise investment will review bankable feasibility studies
submitted by the seed enterprises. The expert will assure that all studies meet Bank requirements, and
provide recommendations to the Government and the World Bank concerning the acceptability of the sub-
loan. ONce the sub-loan is approved and the subsidiary loan agreement is signed, the release of funds
and their utilization will be monitored, and periodic assessments of the enterprise will be undertaken to
provide technical advice and help ensure profitability. The PDU will coordinate with the "agency" bank
activities related to accounting, reporting and recovery of sub-loans.
156.   Institutional Development. The monitoring of the institutional development aspects will be
undertaken by the project officer (seed development) located in the PDU. The project officer will work
with designated officers located in the agencies receiving project support: (i) MOAF/NSAC; (ii)
Gossortkomissia; (iii) Gosseminspektsia; and (iv) the NSA. The project officer in the PDU shall ensure
that the agreed programs are carried out in a timely and acceptable manner by these agencies, r-Jluding
all procurement and training activities.



45
C. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Market infrastructure Development Component
157.    Market Infonnation System. The implementation of the nationwide MIS project will be
carried out in three phases (see Annex 14). The USDA-supported "pilot" project in Kaluga oblast has
already been established and key staff has been trained. This process will be further strengthened by the
two new pilot projects in Belgorod Oblast and the Republic of Mari. The MIS will be a nationwide
system and will be established in 86 oblasts, krays and autonomous republics and 500 rayons over a
period of four years after the project becomes effective.
158.   MOAF will conclude contracts with at least 50% of the oblasts covered by MIS during first year
of the project. It will also select rayons where MIS should be implemented; prepare a detailed list of
commodities covered in each of the oblasts during the first phase of the project; establish samples of
farms, processing enterprises and traders to be interviewed; and develop software packages for processing
of information. The software should be ready before equipment arrives on site. MOAF will also ensure
that oblast and rayon level departments of agriculture upgrade and renovate MIS offices before the
scheduled installation of computer equipment and communications. MOAF will also contact mass media
to arrange for dissemination of market information via radio, television and newspapers in oblasts and
rayons to be included in the project. MOAF has begun the preparation of instruction manuals on data
collection and processing and material for foreign and local training.
159.   MOAF Computer Center will appoint appropriate personnel to carry out the computer systems
development, with clearly assigned functions and responsibilities. It should prepare suitable training
programs for the assigned personnel to start the project as soon as the new hardware and software arrive.
Simultaneously, MOAF will clarify contractual arrangements with various users of information in the
following aspects: (i) ownership of data; (ii) accessibility of data; (iii) maintenance of computer systems;
and (iv) phasing of computer equipment required for MIS and FIAS. MOAF and MOAFCC will prepare
a detailed computer system design document, including a detailed design of infrastructure matching the
expansion of MIS/FIAS with X.25 net expansion. MOAF, in consultation with the Ministry of
Telecommunications and other providers of telecommunication services (especially X.25 packet
networks), will make sure that appropriate facilities are available in all the participating oblasts and
rayons for MIS and FIAS services required in 1994.
160.   Pilot Investments in Market Development. As a condition of loan effectiveness, governments
in two participating regioins will set up local CIUs. The pilot investment sub-component will be
implemented (Annex 14) on a case-by-case basis, consistent with the following approach: First, the
MOAF has been asked to require participating private enterprises to complete sub-project feasibility
studies. MOAF will evaluate the feasibility studies as soon as these are received. Meanwhile, the Bank
and MOAF will work out appropriate arrangements to assist MOAF in the evaluation of these feasibility
studies. Second, all fruit and vegetable farms participating in the project must complete production
restructuring plans to make use of new technologies and management techniques to increase their
production and productivity which is fundamental to make investments in storage facilities viable. The
production restructuring plans will be reviewed by technical teams to be established by MOAF and World
Bank.



46
Farmer Information and Advisory Services Component
161.    The implementation of the FIAS component will be carried out in phases (see Annex 14).
During the first year, ARSRIIMA will establish the federal FIAS center, three oblast centers and five
rayon centers. New methods and the application of technologies for identifying, sourcing and packaging
information products will be developed in these areas. These will be tested, evaluated and refined before
being generalized to other areas. The FIAS will be extended to the major agricultural regions, covering
about 30 oblasts and 125 rayons, over a period of five years. Information through videos, print media
and on-line computers is expected to be accessible to users in selected areas within a year of project
implementation.
Seed Industry Development Component
162.   Implementation of the institutional and enterprise investment sub-components will take place
over the entire project period (see Annex 14). Disbursements for the institutional development sub-
component will be made for equipment and machinery procurement during the first two years of the
project. Technical assistance and training for this sub-component will be provided during the first three
years. The enterprise development program will finance the construction of three seed processing facilities
starting in project year 1, followed by four new facilities in project year 2, and three more facilities will
start construction in project year 3. All new processing facilities would be commissioned by the end of
project year 4. Technical assistance and training for the enterprise investment sub-component will be
provided in project years 1-4, with the majority of the expenditures during project years 2 and 3.
D. SUPERVisION PLAN
163.   The supervision plan and schedule for supervision missions is developed in Annex 15. During
the first year of the project, four Bank supervision missions would be required, followed by three
supervision missions during each of the ensuing years. Each mission would be staffed by appropriate
experts and will be for two to three weeks duration. The mission would review the physical targets,
monitor the impact and assess the institutional development and implementation procedures agreed for
the project; identify critical implementation problems and agree on remedial actions. Supervision costs
of the project are expected to be high because of MOAF's lack of experience in implementing World
Bank projects and other operational difficulties in Russia. The supervision missions will be assisted by
staff from the Resident Mission who will also be available to advise the government between the
missions. This would be further supplemented by hiring qualified local consultants on a continuing basis.
164.    The Bank supervision mission in the last quarter of each implementation year will assess
progress during the previous year and plan the work program and budgetary allocations for the following
year. The MOAF, with assistance from the PDU, will prepare brief reports for discussion during the
mission and will provide evidence of necessary budgetary allocations to carry out the planned work in
the following year. A detailed mid-term review (MTR) will be carried out 30 months after the project
becomes effective and will involve the Bank and relevant Borrower agencies.
165. Benchmarks for measurement of progress in project implementation will include the following:
(a) the operational status of all the component implementation units; (b) the initiation and implementation
of in-country and foreign training; (c) the start-up and implementation of the technical assistance
packages; (d) the implementation and operation of "pilot" marketing and seed enterprises in the private
sector; (e) the establishment of oblast and rayon market information systemn; (f) the establishment of
farmer information and advisory services (FIAS) centers; (g) dissemination of farmer information through
multi-media system; and (h) the operations and scheduled reporting of the PDU.



47
V1II
PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. PROJEcr BENEFIs
Overall ARIS Project
166.    The project is expected to have substantial economnic and financial benefits. The project's
potential benefits include increased production of corn and sunflower seeds, farm income, rural
employment and foreign exchange savings. More importantly, this project would lay the foundation for
future policy reforms in the agricultural sector. The project will accelerate the implementation of ongoing
reforms through the provision of critical support services. The project will train a large number of
Russian experts to advise farmers and develop analytical capacity to prepare and implement future
agricultural projects to be financed by the international financial institutions. The training and technical
assistance will impart important skills to the staff of agencies involved in project implementation at the
federal and regional levels.
167.    The creation of viable institutional capacity will lay the foundation for a more efficient
agricultural sector based on private ownership and market principles. For example, the development of
a marketing system and alternative agricultural marketing channels will increase competition, reduce
physical losses, provide higher quality food at competitive prices and have favorable impact on prices and
marketing services received by farmers and hence improved farmer income. The development and
dissemination of appropriate information to private farmers, newly restructured farms and agro-business
enterprises will enable them to make informed business decisions, improve agricultural productivity and
participate in the process of agricultural reform. The establishment of a modern seed industry would
increase the availability of quality hybrid corn and sunflower seed which, in turn, would result in higher
crop yields and foreign exchange savings from reduction in seed imports and will lay the foundation for
developing a modern seed industry in the private sector.
168.   The successful implementation of the ARIS project would have positive benefits in at least three
key areas. First, the seed component would increase corn and sunflower seed production, both of which
are important sources of foreign exchange savings since they are both imported. Domestically produced
corn (feed) and silage (fodder) would assist in making the livestock sector more efficient. Second, market
information system and farmer information and advisory services components would assist the emerging
farmers to respond to changing economic conditions and increase their understanding of a competitive
markets. Third, with the emergence of new marketing channels, investments in private marketing
infrastructure would demonstrate how competitive markets function and could be replicated in other parts
of the country.
Market Infrastructure Development Component.
169.  The MIS will result in several positive benefits: it will signal possibilities for profitable sales of
agricultural products and thereby create producer incentives; improve bargaining position of emerging
producers; stimulate competition among traders thereby contributing to efficient allocation of resources;
help producers and traders to adjust to changing demand; reduce interregional price disparities; promote
comparative advantage; and expand international trade. Investments in pilot investment sub-projects will
provide a number of important institutional and economic benefits. It would demonstrate the commercial
viability of these enterprises and the critical role of appropriate policies for the establishment of marketing
systems in which producers, traders, processors and consumers could operate in a competitive
environment. Producer prices would reflect the market conditions, marketing margins will provide



48
reasonable returns on services rendered by market intermediaries and consumer prices should be
competitive. The market prices would result in demand and supply responses that will promote increased
production and productivity and reduced waste. Prices to farmers would probably show an overall
increase while consumers will benefit from reduced prices--contributed by reduced post-harvest losses
of agricultural products and reduced marketing margins--and improved grading and standards, product
quality, and market intelligence. The projert will be an important step in the ongoing transition from the
command to competitive agricultural marketing system.
Farmer Information and Advisory Services Component.
170.  The provision of timely and relevant agricultural information (agronomic practices, technology
choices, business regulations, market conditions and agricultural reforms) is vital to increase awareness
of farmers, processors, and traders of the possible new options on different aspects of the agricultural
sector. Access to free information would motivate agricultural producers to seriously confront the new
challenges of emerging farm problems that are blocking their economic progress and would increase their
exposure to a variety of alternative choices and opportunities. This flow of information will expose
agricultural producers to new opportunities for those willing to take normal business risks. The
successful implementation of the FIAS component would have a positive impact on accelerating the pace
of agricultural reforms and in providing the needed stimulus for grass roots development in the
agricultural sector. The use of the mass media, viz., television, video and radio, in the dissemination
of agricultural information has the potential to reach a very large audience across the Russian Federation.
The establishment of the FIAS centers at the federal level and in 30 oblasts and 125 rayons in important
agricultural areas over the project life would also benefit a large number of emerging farm organizations
and agro-business enterprises. The strengthening of farner training centers would create institutional
capacity to train the trainers and FIAS advisors.
Seed Industry Development Component.
171. The establishment of modern seed enterprises will lay the foundation for developing a dynamic,
market-oriented seed industry in the private sector. The new enterprises financed under the project would
increase the quantity and quality of corn and sunflower seeds sold to Russian farmers, which will result
in increased yields for these principal food, feed and fodder crops. The model demonstrated by these
enterprises is expected to be replicated in other new seed enterprises in the principal seed production
areas.
172.     The project will help define a comprehensive national seed policy that delineates the
complementary roles of government regulatory and support agencies and private sector seed enterprises.
The Government will institutionalize a seed policy dialogue with representatives of the emerging private
seed industry. The project will support the enactment and implementation of the necessary legal
framework including a law for registration of crop varieties and protection of plant breeders' rights, and
a basic seed law that regulates the quality of the seeds traded in the marketplace. The new legislation will
promote the development of the private sector, including the involvement of foreign seed companies as
joint ventures. In addition, seed testing laboratories and field inspectors would be technically upgraded
and assisted to provide quality services to the participating private enterprises.
173.    The seed enterprises established under the project would produce approximately 40,000 tons
of hybrid corn seed, and 4,000 tons of hybrid sunflower seeds annually. The corn seed produced is
expected to be planted on 200,000 ha for corn grain production, and approximately 1.24 million ha of
corn silage production. The sunflower seed is sufficient to plant approximately 650,000 ha. Estimates of
quantifiable benefits from the use of this seed indicate an incremental annual production of 300,000 tons



49
of corn grain, 8.64 million tons of corn silage, and 585,000 tons of sunflower seeds. The current value
of this incremental production is estimated at about US$35 million for the increased corn grain
production, US$120 million for corn silage and US$175 million for the increased sunflower production
annually. The project will also have a fiscal impact through the savings in foreign exchange due to the
reduction in the import of corn and sunflower seeds, and the elimination of import and price subsidies
applied to these seeds.
B. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
174.  Given the unstable macroeconomic environment and distorted input-output price structure, the
estimated economic rates of return on sub-project investments are preliminary. However, the economic
and financial analysis indicates that investments in private "pilot" seed and marketing enterprises are
viable (see Annex 16). A detailed enterprise analysis for representative participating private enterprises
(one each for hybrid corn seed, vegetable storage and fruit and vegetable base) as case studies is provided
in Annex 17.
Pilot Seed Enterprises
175. Competitiveness of Seed Production. Russia has a strong comparative advantage in the
production of hybrid corn and sunflower seeds. The results summarized in Annex 16 show that the cost
of production of processed hybrid corn seed is 50 to 60 percent that of production costs of comparable
seed in North America and Western Europe. The important factors contributing to this diffeirnce are
the lower production costs of parent line seed, low wages and low processing costs in Russia.
176.  Economic Rate of Retun. The underlying basis of economic analysis for the seed enterprises
is that Russia is a net importer of hybrid corn and sunflower seeds. As a result, import parity prices are
used to calculate economic rates of return. The estimated economic rates of return for investmnents in the
hybrid corn and sunflower seed enterprises are 25 percent and 37 percent, respectively.
177. Financial Analysis. The financial analysis for the newly privatized hybrid corn and sunflower
seed enterprises was based on detailed feasibility studies. Of the 10 seed enterprises, three hybrid corn
seed enterprises and one sunflower seed enterprise were appraised. The financial rates of return of 18
percent and 34 percent were obtained for com and sunflower seed enterprises, respectively, which
indicate that these enterprises are commercially viable. Incremental revenues from the proposed
investments in seed enterprises would be adequate to enable sub-borrowers to repay the loan within a
period of 7-10 years with a grace period of 2 years. The risk of a sharp decline in marketing margins
is less likely due to strong effective demand for quality hybrid com and sunflower seeds.
178.  Sensitivity Analysis. Sensitivity analysis for economic rates of return was undertaken to evaluate
the impact of changes in investment costs, operating costs, total costs and seed prices. Results indicate
that in both the hybrid com and sunflower seed enterprises, the project is resilient to an increase in
project costs. For example, an increase in investment, operating and total costs by 20 percent yields
economic rates of return on hybrid corn enterprises of 21 percent, 17 percent and 14 percent,
respectively. In the case of sunflower enterprises, the corresponding rates of return are 31 percent, 30
percent and 26 percent, respectively. The corn seed enterprises are more sensitive to decline in output
prices. A 20 percent decline in corn seed prices yields a rate of return of 11 percent, and a similar
decline in sunflower seed prices yields a rate of return of 24 percent. Furthermore, sensitivity analysis,
expressed in terms of switching values using an opportunity cost of capital of 15 percent in constant 1993
US$ terms, shows that the com seed enterprises could withstand a 15 percent decline of revenues or 16



50
percent increase in total costs. In the case of sunflower seed enterprise, the corresponding results are 31
percent decline in revenues or 45 percent increase in total costs.
Pilot Marketng Enterprises
179. Economic Rate of Return. The economic analysis for investments in fruit and vegetable bases
and storage facilities is based on the assumption that the two major urban markets in the country, Moscow
and St. Petersburg, would remain net importers of quality fruits and vegetables with supplies coming
from FSU and East European countries. The project output must, therefore, sell in competition with
imported fruits and vegetables. As the major emphasis of the proposed investments in market
infrastructure is to demonstrate the role of systemic reforms, their contribution to the economy in terms
of increased supply of better quality fruits and vegetables, relative to the total turnover in the market,
would be marginal. Thus, for the purposes of economic analysis, the value added project outputs (mainly
fruits and vegetables) are considered as traded commodities and valued at projected CIF prices, where
available, and in terms of consumers' willingness to pay, as appropriate. The prices of non-traded inputs,
as far as feasible, have been valued at their approximate opportunity cost. The economic rate of return
for investments in typical fruit and vegetable bases and cold storage facilities have been estimated to be
in the range of 26 to 29 percent.
180.  Finanal Analysis. Financial analysis was carried out for: (i) fruit and vegetable bases in
Moscow City and Belgorod Oblast; and (ii) cold storage facilities for vegetables in Moscow Oblast. About
25 sub-projects were reviewed during the preparation and appraisal missions and financial analysis was
carried out on those where marginal investments could yield quick returns and on those enterprises that
were willing to participate in the project and pursue systemic mnarketing reforms. Financial analysis for
fruit and vegetable bases indicates financial rates of return of 19 percent for Sverdlovskaya base in
Moscow City and 23 percent for Plodoovoshprom base in Belgorod Oblast. The financial rates of return
for selected cold storage facilities at restructured farms located in Bunyatino, Ozeri, Yahromskiya and
Kras in Moscow Oblast were estimated to be 19 percent, 22 percent, 23 percent and 23 percent,
respectively. Incremental revenues from the proposed investments in selected marketing enterprises
would also be adequate to enable the sub-borrowers to repay the loan within 7 to 10 years, with two years
of grace period.
181. Sensitivity Analysis. Sensitivity analysis for economic rates of return indicates that the economic
rates of return are moderately affected by increases in total costs or decline in revenues if these are in
the range of 10-20 percent. For example, in the case of cold storage facility, rates of return of 15 percent
and 10 percent are obtained if the total costs increase by 60 percent or revenues decline by 50 percent.
However, border prices (expressed in US$) for inputs and outputs are unlikely to witness such
fluctuations during the life of proposed investments. The financial rates of return are particularly
sensitive to product prices and marketing margins and, therefore, project will require, as a condition of
subloan approval, that enterprises agree to introduce modern production and storage technologies; pay
attention to bring about efficiencies in vegetable and fruit production; and ensure optimal storage capacity
utilization using energy efficient practices. The project will provide necessary technical assistance to
enterprises.
C. PROJECT BENEFICIARIES
182.    The primary beneficiaries of the project would be private farmers, restructured farms, agro-
business enterprises and participating private enterprises for seed and agricultural marketing. The
comers (both in rural and urban areas) will benefit through increased availability of fruits and
vegetables of higher quality at lower prices. The government decision makers, policy makers and private



51
traders would benefit from increased availability of timely information related to agricultural problems,
market and prices. In the long run, the nation would benefit through increased agricultural production,
foreign exchange savings and environmental protection. Overall, this project would lay the foundation
for a more efficient agricultural sector thereby increasing the prospects for inproved farm income and
employment opportunities in rural areas and improved quality and potentially lower prices for consumers
in both rural and urban areas.
D. ENVIRONMENTAL AspEcTs
183.   The project is expected to have a positive impact on the environment. The move toward private
farming promoted by this project is expected to foster more prudent use of land and other natural
resources. In addition, public awareness on agricultural environmental issues will be created through
appropriately designed environmental information collection and dissemination, technical assistance and
training programs. The project has a "B" environmental assessment category.
184.    Any environmental concerns related to new investments in "pilot" sub-projects for market
infrastructure and seed enterprises will be addressed during implementation of sub-projects by applying
Bank's and country's environmental requirements and guidelines. The feasibility studies for marketing
and seed enterprises will include an obligatory environmental review, the adequacy of which will be
verified by the PDU. The Bank's review of typical feasibility studies will ensure the adequacy of
environmental analyses and suggest improvements as necessary. PDU will be given the responsibility
of ensuring that recommendations made in environmental analyses are implemented.
185.    For the participating marketing enterprises, the project would ensure proper disposal of food
wastes which are generally high in organic content. The cold storage facilities for fruits and vegetables
are designed to ensure proper storage conditions such that the produce does not become contaminated
through inadequate handling and storage. All environmental and health regulations would be required
to avoid any contamination of food. No other environmental risk are involved.
186.   For the participating seed enterprises, dust from the seed cleaning operations will be controlled
by installing appropriate dust control system and cyclone dust collectors. Seeds will be coated with
appropriate treatment chemicals. Only those treatment chemicals will be used for coating of seeds which
are on the approved FAO codex list. The equipment and areas where the treatment will be applied will
conform to international norms for ventilation and worker health. All treated seed will be packaged in
suitable containers with information (labels in Russian) about the treatment and safe storage and handling
of seeds. All enviromnental regulations will be followed to avoid any possible contamination. No other
environmental risks are involved.
E. PRojEcr RISKS
187.   While potential benefits of the proposed ARIS project are substantial, the potential operational
risks are also large. The main risk is that the project may face delays in implementation. Factors that
could cause problems in project implementation include: (i) the current unstable macroeconomic
environment and its possible further deterioration; (ii) lack of political consensus on agricultural reforms;
(iii) lack of counterpart funds; (iv) delaying in government decision making; and (v) lack of trained
personnel with experience in implementing World Bank projects. The review and appraisal of at least
the first three sub-projects for each of the seed and marketing enterprises by the Bank are expected to
reduce potential implementation risks. The project has introduced necessary measures in the form of legal
covenants, training and technical assistance and has allocated necessary resources to minimize these risks.
The establishment of a strong PDU, with appropriate support for procurement, disbursement, accounting,



52
project management and technical aspects, is also expected to mitigate some of the potential project risks.
The project would be intensively supervised (including a project launch workshop, annual reviews and
a comprehensive mid-term review) so that appropriate and timely actions are taken to avoid and overcome
implementation problems.
188.    The major risks facing the Market Infrastructure Component are: (i) the inability of oblast
governments to implement the MIS program as planned; (ii) lack of financial viability of participating
private enterprises due to poor management and/or reintroduction of price controls by the government
for fruits and vegetables; and (iii) MOAF's inability to complete the planned training and technical
assistance programs. The project and covenants have been designed to address these potential risks.
These measures would be supplemented by intensive Bank supervision to facilitate effective project
implementation.
189.    The main risks facing the FIAS component are: (i) problems of institutional co-ordination in
achieving administrative efficiency; (ii) availability of relevant information to prepare packages on time;
(iii) degree to which these information packages are adopted by users, given the lack of support services,
critically needed farm inputs and the financial resources to obtain them; and (iv) degree of commitment
of the participating oblasts and rayons. The degree of acceptance of the information generated and
disseminated by the FIAS component would depend upon the overall production incentives as well as the
general macroeconomic situation. The emphasis of the component to develop easy to understand multi-
disciplinary information packages and the use of multi-media approach for dissemination minimizes the
risk of timely availability of relevant information.
190.   The seed industry development component faces risks in three areas: (i) possibility of reversal
in government policy to seed price liberalization and elimination of seed subsidy; (ii) continued lack of
appropriate incentives for staff engaged in the implementation of seed policy, viz., Gosseminspektsia,
Gossortkomissia and MOAF Seed Division; and (iii) possibility of the Russian Academy of Agricultural
Sciences (RAAS) not providing the required hybrid seeds to the private sector enterprises being financed
under the project. The maintenance of free markets for the sale of seeds is critical for the commercial
viability of participating seed enterprises. As long as these prices are not controlled, domestic seed prices
should adjust with changes in international prices and the exchange rate, which should enable private
investors to obtain an attractive return on their investments. The formation of the National Seed Advisory
Committee being proposed under this project has been designed to ensure that timely supply of
appropriate inputs from RAAS are provided to the participating seed enterprises and that contractual
arrangements between RAAS and the private sector seed enterprises are honored.
VIE[
AGREEMENTs AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. PRoJECr AGREEMENTS
191.   The Government has informed the Bank of: (a) Government's policy on liberalization of prices
and elimination of subsidies and administrative controls on marketing of seeds (hybrid corn and
sunflower), fruits and vegetables; and (b) government commitment to maintain these policies. These
policies are critical to make project investments in the seed and marketing enterprises commercially viable
and to encourage private investment on a continuing basis.



53
192.    The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(i)    Agreement on cost recovery principles (para. 117);
(ii)   Agreement on terms and conditions for sub-loans to participating private enterprises (paras.
108, 110, 112, 113, 114);
(iii)  Agreement on the process for preparation, appraisal, approval and financing of sub-projects
(paras. 108, 113);
(iv)   Agreement on the use of any surplus reflows on a revolving basis for financing similar sub-
projects (para. 113);
(v)   Agreement on the composition of the Project Coordination Committee 2nd its role in
approving project sub-loans (para 141);
(vi)   Agreement on the organization, staffing, functions and financing of PDU and the CIUs
(paras. 142-149);
(vii)  Agreement on the provision of periodic reports on project progress, accounts for the
project, audit requirements and financial statements (paras. 130-138);
(viii) Agreement on selection procedures for procurement agents (paras. 125, 126);
(ix)   Agreement on selection procedures for commercial banks to manage the Special Account
and/or to serve as agency banks (paras. 105, 108, 110);
(x)   Agreement on adequate legal and administrative framework for making sub-loans to private
enterprises (para. 113);
(xi)   Agreement on guidelines for oblast participation in the project (para. 71); and
(xii)  Agreement on provision for retroactive financing up to US$1.0 million (paras. 102, 129);
193.  The following are the conditions for loan effectiveness:
(i)    Appointment of key staff of the PDU  (project management specialist, accountant,
procurement specialist and technical specialists) (para. 146);
(ii)   Establishment of CIUs within the departments and agencies of MOAF and in at least two
participating regions for sub-components dealing with private seed and marketing enterprise
(para. 149); and
(iii)  Establishment of the Project Account and an initial deposit of at least US$1.0 million
equivalent in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank (para 103).
B. RECOMMENDATION
194.    The proposed ARIS Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IBRD loan of US$240 million
equivalent to the Russian Federation for a period of 17 years, including a five-year grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.



54
ANEXES



55                                   ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
RussIAN FEDERATION
AGRiCULTURAL REFoRM ImPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (ARIS) PRoJECT
MAJOR LAWS. DECREES AND) REsoLuTIoNs
PERTAINIG TO AGRICULTURAL REFORM
CONSnTTUTION
The Constitution, Dec. 12, 1993. Approved by referendum, it recognizes private, state,
municipal and other forms of ownership over land, all with equal status under the law.
Previous moratoria on land sales are abolished.
LAWS
1.    On Land Reform, October 23, 1990, with changes December 27, 1990, reintroduced
*the concept of land ownership in Russia.
2.    On Peasant Farms, Nov. 22, 1990 with changes Dec. 27, 1990, established a legal
framework for private family farms.
3.    On Ownership in the RSFSR, Dec.24, 1990. The basic document dealing with
property rights, including rights in land. Elaborated and refined in subsequent
legislation.
4.    The RSFSR Land Code, April 25, 1991. Defines the basis of land ownership, use and
disposition. A revised version was prepared by the Supreme Soviet in 1993, but never
approved by the President. Most of the Land Code was pronounced invalid by a
-Presidential Decree on Dec. 24, 1993. The Federal Assembly is responsible for
preparing a new land code.
5.    On Payment for Land, Oct. 11, 1991. The law provides methodology for determining
sales price, land tax and lease payments (for state land leased to private persons), using
regional coefficients and technical measurements.
6.    On the Ri2ehts of Citizens to Acauire as Private Propertv and to Sell Land Parcels to
Conduct Subsidiarv Farming and Daclha Operations. Horticulture and Private Housing
Construction, Dec. 23, 1992. Eliminated sales moratoria for small land parcels
(generaly less than 0.5 hectares) in the above categories.
7.    The Law on Protection to Plant Breeders' Rights. August 6, 1993. The law protects the
breeders' right on the variety of crop, planting material and animal breeds which are
different in specific single or combination of genotypic characters of the same taxonomy.



56                                   ANNEx 1
Page 2 of 5
These breeds or plant varieties whole or in part may be used for production purposes.
Protection is provided to the following: clones, lines, hybrids of first generations, seeds
or part of plant used for multiplication, breeds or group of animal type, line crosses,
newly evolved male, female or young breed of animal.
PREDENTL DECREES
1.    On Uraent Measures for Implementation of Land Reform, No. 323, Dec. 27, 1991.
Provides for the destructuring of state and collective farms and the creation of a state
reserve fund of land for reallocation of agricultural land to private users.
2.    On Reeulations for Determining Norms of Free Transfer of Land to Private Propertv,
No. 218, March 2, 1992. Procedures for determining land share entitlement for state and
collective farm workers and other individuals applying to establish private farms.
3.    On Procedures for the Export of Strategically Imrtt Raw Materials, No. 628, June
14, 1992. Established procedures under which export of grain was controlled by the
State.
4.    On Procedures for the Sale of Land Parcels during Privatization of State and Municipal
Enterprises, No. 631, June 14, 1992. Establishes procedures for sale or long-term lease
of land beneath state and municipal enterprises undergoing privatization.
S.    On Additional Measures for Allotting Land Parcels to Citizens, No. 480, April 23, 1993.
Reinforces earlier decrees for allocation of land to private owners. Sets out operational
guidelines for the allocation process.
6.    On Certain Measures to Support Peasant (Private) Farms and Agricultural Cooperatives,
No. 1139, July 27, 1993. Laid out steps to support the further development of private
farnr  and private farmer cooperation.
7.    On Regulation of Price Settlement between Producers of Agricultural Produce & Food
Stuffs and the Purchasers. No. 1401, September 22, 1993. Sets out the conditions to
protect the interests agriculture produce and food stuff producers from the delayed
payment by the purchasers. The decree imposes fine of 1 % of the contracted price of
supply, per day of default in payment to the producer.
8.    On Regulation of Land Relations and Development of Agrarian Reform in Russia, No.
1767, Oct 27, 1993. Eliminates restrictions on the sale of land and reiterates the right
to mortgage land. Greatly simplifies the procedure for registration of land by eliminating
the need for surveys as part of land tides. Establishes a simplified "Certificate of Title"
as the basic land registration document. Reiterates the mandate of the State Land
Committee to administer the land registration system. Identifies structures as well as land
in the concept of real estate.



57                                  ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
9.    On Tax Payments for the Sale of Land Parcels and Other Operations in Land, No. 2118.
Dec. 7, 1993. A system of fees established for land transactions, land inheritance at.A
land grants tied to existing income tax rates.
10.   On the State Land Cadastre and Registration of Documents of Rights in Real Estate, No.
2130, Dec. 11, 1993. Calls for establishment of a unified property registry (land and
structures) and gives responsibility for such registration activity to the State Land
Committee.
11.   On Strengthening of State Supervision over the Use anid Protection of Land Duting
Implementation of Land Reform, No. 2162, Dec. 16, 1993. Establishes penalties for
inappropriate use of land.
12.   On Introduction of Land Legislation of the Russian Federation in Accordance with the
Constitution of the Russian Federation, No. 2287, December 24, 1993. Declared invalid
large portions of the April 1991 Land Code, the 1990 Law on Land Refonn and removed
description of land auction procedures from Decree No. 1767 of October 1993.
GOVERNMEN RESOLUTIONS
1.    On Supporting the Development of Peasant Farm, No. 9, Jan. 4, 1991. Introduced
measures to facilitate the establishr.;ent of private family farms.
2.    On the Republic Program for Introducing Land Reform on the Territory of the RSFSR,
No. 30, January 18, 1991. Laid out institutional responsibilities in the areas of land
reform as well as information and training requirements.
3.    On Reforming the System of State Management of the Agro-Industrial Complex of the
Russian Federation, No. 81, December 28, 1991.  Laid out the administrative
responsibilities and mandate of the Ministry of Agriculture following the break-up of the
former USSR.
4.    On Procedures for the Reorganization of Collertive and State Farms, No. 86, Dec. 29,
1991. Set out procedures for reorganization of state and collective farms including joint
stock companies and limited liability partnerships.
5.    On Determining the Size of Land Tax and Normative Prices for Land, No. 112, Feb. 25,
1992. Outlined an administrative approach to assess land values by region.
6.    On Land Monitoring, No. 491, June 15, 1992. Mandated the State Land Committee and
the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources to monitor the use of land.
7.    On Perfecting the Implementation of the State Land Cadastre in Russia, No. 622, Aug.
25, 1992. Specified the principles for operating and maintaining the State Land Cadastre
with primary responsibility to the State Land Committee.



58                                  ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
8.    On Procedures for the Privatization and Reorganization of Enterprises and C .ganizations
of the Agro-lndustrial Complex, No. 708, Sept. 4, 1992. Reiterated and elaborated
procedures for reorganization of state and collective farms and introduced a specialized
privatization program for food processing and agro-service enterprises.
9.    On Affirmation of Principles for Compensation of Loss of Ownership. Land Use and
Land Leasing and Associated Loss of Agricultural Production, No. 77, Jan. 28, 1993.
Established procedures to compensate land owners and lessees for damages to soil or
agricultural production caused by third parties or in cases of land seizure on the principle
of eminent domain.
10.   On the State Proaram for Monitoring Land in Russia in 1993-95, No. 100, Feb. 5, 1993
11.   On Affirmation of Governmeiat Program- for Training Farmers in Russia, No. 103, Feb.
1993. Reiterated the government commitment to educate the farmers to adjust to the
economic reforms specifically to the market economy. Training and education to all
involved in agricultural production to upgrade skills and technology in scie,itific
production.
12.   On Additional Measures to Stabilize Production in Agricultural Farms and A&r-
Processing Industries in Russia, No. 303, April 10, 1993. Laid out measures to stimulat,..
production in agro-industries, processing units and farms through government support.
13.   Resolution of the Council of Ministers of Russian Pederation No. 428. May 7, 1993.
Reviews the progress of Socio-Economic Reform lmplementation by the government for
the first quarter of 1993.
14.   On Formation of a Govern uent Agrcultural Poliy Committee to Advise the Council
Ministers, No. 641, June.30 1993. Constitutes the expert comnmittee to advice the
council of ministers on policy issues to enhance the agricultural production of farms,
agroprocessing units and agro-industries complexes. It also aims at improving the socio-
economic conditions of the rural areas.
15.   On Transformation of Government Co-o)eratives. Agro-industrv Complexes into Joint
Stock Companies, No. 5309. -I , July 1, 1993. Sets out procedure and principle of
distribution of the shares of the co-orerative government organization among share-
holders while forming the Joint storck companies as per the Presidential decree No. 721.
of July 1, 1992.
16.   On Affirming the Procedures for Approval of Land Purchases and Sales of Small Land
Parcels, No. 503, May 30, 1993. Laid out operational procedures for the free sale of
small land parcels as called for in the December 1992 Law in this area.
17.   On the Procedures for Exercising State Control over the Utilization and Protection of
Land in the Russian Federatior, No. 1362, December 23, 1993.



59                                  ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
18.   On the Experience of Agrarian Transformation in Nizhny Novgorod Oblast, No. 324,
April 15, 1994. Approved the results of the Nizhny Novgorod farm restructuring pilot
project; called for establishment of a regional training center in Nizhny Novgorod to train
specialists to carry out farm restructuring work; and ordered elaboration of regulations
and procedures governing the process of fann restructuring by June 15, 1994.
MISCELLANEOUS DOCUMENTS
1.    Recommendations for the Reorganization of Collective and State Farms, Jan. 14, 1992.
Laid out detailed procedures for the reorganization of these farms built around the notion
of individual land and property shares for farm members.
2.    Government Order from MOAF on the system of v-;ietal certification and procedures,
January, 14, 1993.
3.    Statement of Seed Inspection of Russia, Issued by the State Agricultural Development
Complex of Russian Federation, October 20, 1986. Explains the functions and
responsibility and set of Governing Rule for Seed Inspection in Russia.
4.    Resolution and Article of Association of the Russian National Seed Growers Association,
October 20, 1993.
5.    Directive of the MOAF, Russian Federation, September 17, 1992 on the procedure for
privatization and reorganization of the agro-industries complexes.



60                                   ANNEx 2
Page 1 of 5
RUssIAN FEDERATION
AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (AIS) PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MIsTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FooD
ORGANIZATION
1.    The Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MOAF), can be characterized as comprehensive, complex
and all pervasive. It was responsible for production and processing of agricultural raw materials and
implementation of policies within the overall guiding principle of the Supreme Soviet. It has the history
of seventy years of command approach for directing the agricultural production units to meet the
economic and political goals of the central government. The MOAF and other bodies connected with
agriculture, under the FSU, were organized and staffed on the concept of centrally controlled order and
compliance system. Agricultural administration, till recently, was through a three-tiered pyramidal
system. The federal government at the apex, oblasts/krays/independent Republics at the next level, and
the rayons at the base. Under the FSU, there were large number of employees to oversee the
implementation of the programs on farms and agro-industrial complexes under the central command.
2.    Following the break up of the FSU, and the consequent disintegration of the central command
system led to the crisis in the supply and demand of agricultural commodikies. Government reorganized
the MOAF such that it can play a greater role in agricultural reforms. At present, the MOAF has nearly
20 departments (see Annex Figure 2.1). The Minister of Agriculture andl Food is the head and is
responsible to the Council of Ministers. The Minister of Agriculture is suppcrted by two First Deputy
Ministers and six Deputy Ministers looking after the following major areas in the Ministry: (i) the
territorial department dealing with Republics, krays, and oblasts, scientific and technical councils; (ii)
mechanization, electrification, technical services and labor protection (safety); (iii) economics and
finance; (iv) agrarian policies; (v) research, technology, and agricultural education; (vi) soil amelioration
and irrigation water-management; (vii) agricultural reform, state sector programs, rural development and
resettlement; and (viii) crop production and animal husbandry. The organization of MOAF departments
dealing with the ARIS Project is shown in Annex Figure 2.2. However, the present reorganized structure
continues to reflect the practice of the command economy but to a lesser degree.
3.    Attached to the MOAF, there are other privatized and semi-public organizations that are
concerned with agriculture. Until recently these were part of the Ministry and were responsible for
administering processing, procurement, distribution and services under the centralized command. After
mid-1991, they were separated and are formed into independent agencies. They are officially independent
of the Ministry of Agriculture at the Federal level. These agencies deal with the processing, production
of agro-iindustrial products, inputs and outputs marketing, distribution and other services. They are
supported by payments received from beneficiaries of their services. They are, however, not yet
financially independent in the true sense.



61                                  ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
FUNCInONS
4.    Under the FSU, the MOAF had a mandate to design and implement socio-economic programs
for maximizing agricultural production to meet the demands for agricultural goods for the entire country;
implement programs to improve the efficiencies of the agro-industrial complexes; introduce scientific
systems on the farms for intensive agriculture; improve the land use and fertility status to achieve high
levels of production for agricultural crops and livestock; strengthen fodder base and accomplish stability
in agriculture production. MOAF established targets for the production by the production units
(Kolkhozes, Sovkhozes and Meshkhozes and Agroproms) and implemented this policy by regulating
inputs, machinery and budget. The MOAF also generated basic data to fix prices of the agricultural
commodities and quantities for imports and exports. Pricing of agricultural commodities was determined
by the Ministries of Economy and Finance and was based on the data provided (and in consultation with)
the MOAF and Ministries of Trade and External Affairs.
5.     After the break up of the FSU, the major task of the MOAF is to implement the structural
reforms to facilitate transition to a market economy. The government has to dismantle management of
the agro-industrial complexes, promote private sector enterprises to replace the public sector such as
inputs supply and output marketing. The MOAF has plans to shed its bureaucratic approach to facilitate
independent functioning of the enterprises; get away from the farm input and output marketing function;
and to eliminate procurement quota obligations. It shall assume the standard setting; quality regulating;
policy defining; and implementing organizational development programs. The linkage between research,
teaching and state production system at the functional level is minimum. There is a felt need for
improving the relationship between the agricultural research institutions on the one hand, production and
processing systems on the other. Similarly, the Departments of Agriculture at the rayon and oblast level
have to reorganize to meet the needs of the public institutions, private farmers, restructured farms and
agri-business enterprises in the context of changing agriculture in response to reform.
STAFFING
6.     In the past, there were large number of specialists (economists, agronomists, mechanical
engineers, civil engineers, zoo-technicians, veterinarians, soil conservationists, accountants, lawyers and
administrative staff) working at the Ministry. They formulated development programs as per the
Government directives; established targets for production for each oblast and rayon; allocated
proportionate budget and the farm inputs to match the accepted targets for production; negotiated with
the oblast government to achieve the targets and allocation of inputs and subsidies; and followed up with
periodic review of the progress. The programs were implemented through the three tier system: (i) state
level, (ii) oblast (region) level, and (iii) rayon (district) level. Department of Agriculture and Food of
the oblast (Agricultural Committee) under the local Regional Government (Oblispolkom) is independent
of the MOAF. The staff at the oblast are employees of the oblast government. The oblast staff
implement both central and provincial programs as per the agreed annual plans. Similar mini pyramid
structural arrangements are at the rayon (district) level with local government administration (Raispolkom)
which implements, collects and consolidates information from the production units, Sovkhozes and
Kolkhozes and send it to the rayon administration and the department of agriculture and food at the
oblast.
7.    The Department of Agriculture and Food of the rayon level, under the local rayon administration
(Raiselkhosprod) in-racts with Sovkhozes/Kolkhozes/Meshkhozes for rendering technical service from



62                                   ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
the local government. The agricultural staff in each of the rayon work under the policy framework of
the oblast and rayon level government, on the technical matters. They also interact with supply and
service organizations such as Raiagropromtekhniki (for machinery), Raiselkozekhim (agrochemicals),
Raiagrosnab (input supply), Raiagropromzerno (grain processing and procurement), Selkhozstraenia
(constructions), Agrofirmi (processing) which are the rayon level branches of over 20 federal and oblast
level organizations.
8.     During the past two years, the Government has been making a serious effort to rationalize the
manpower needs in the public administration of agriculture. This includes responsibilities to facilitate
and promote production systems through public services; develop capability to analyze and formulate the
national agricultural policies; monitor the policy ramifications under the changing economic
circumstances; and provide farm information service to the emerging private farms/enterprises with legal,
technical, organizational and managerial assistance to facilitate implementation of the land reform and
enterprise restructuring process. This process entailed restructuring the organization of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food (formerly the Ministry of Agriculture and Production) and reducing the staff by
more than 50%. Private sector is new to Russia. Establishment of - market economy requires the
development of a new legal framework to facilitate for the tran    . There is general lack of
experienced technical personnel who could make decisions based oi, miiarket principles and prepare
technically and commercially viable programs.



Annex Figure 2.1: Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MOAF) in Russia as of April 1994
..______                                                                                                                                     MacbaFaato   d
____ _      _ _    _a Sbll_Poky _  _                                                                                                                  Eadflcatbn
P*d   E   _           .                                                                          _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pmcantcl and Dey
. ________ of_t__ _                                                                                                                               TeFMarc,W S" aM
ofR_tinAcMrLabor PndDpon
Thtb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tanAr PoTltlD_
I  -   -  7                                                    _      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TelcmIl Supnam
CDAM C  DqepsMbirlfor                          D NW   h uar r        j D     q     rte r r                  Io rDeM otefontma
LEeSotand bB ca and EduatiUon                                                     Agaa Pdkbcy                and Warmr E l|Scbtnoniq                       £ l
r  D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tm c d                                                                       H                                       Mg    
P b on| ng             nog uj T.C,lO   D     _n,n  | |Z XIF|}                                            Water Econm
Ecneno an-    g1~I~ P1c                                                                                        hitorfo In ,                          vatnui,PolI
l~In Depatnt of  8*SCIt In Srocio at  LDev9mn                                                                                                                  I
|R | HW hS     Depaut O.                                                                                                       of i  -d dRural keas
g                                        §                g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VOAU*. A _ia    hr   Ior
EcowrMm _W _Mw"                           SOW" NW E*                       | RetmclO"n                        o _  l                        H   No Teta
Mo     g and dii           oduH                                         I                          ,,onI  I                                         Da D nerona
I  _  _ Gd | | 5 E eX*  b - _ Of                          AaIl f  DMeXf   
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~~tm  am Tab                       D                                                           PWuio  n           e                 |Fh, be
MWo D"whimM ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ Copmdn~oepi
DepulnwntofPdoePoboy IO spam of   Fo
Apaslan conadioteg                       M=b fo
|~ ~ ~ ~~~~&m    Edww DapadPwPeSq  |    D     d    1               |            S        lA                                               L{     P
.1 T11.                                     [  Regional |o       , an  ao "" &* Htoc''
Iamio an, AcdufalLlneaolao. ,F                                                                                    I .                    .dns,
4 oak POAen                                                                                                                                   R                °
-F        -"ff                                     "I



Annex Figure 2.2: Organiation of the Ministy of Agriculture and Food (MOAF) Departments Related to the AFIS Project
as of April 1994
Ministry of Agriculture and Food
First Depq Mhiber for                                                                              xea      R
Gukbnce& kvqX                                                                                     ExteE al Relatins
Technic Cooperason &    EcoroMIC    Persoe Wrkkg        oen Debegat
Internatonw Progams    Coopton         Abroad            Recepto
Depy Mklster tor Agran                   Deputy Mks*er foar  ||                   D Mh*se lx                       D      he r    r
Prductn & Technobgic Pak y                   AgPqtn Poy                            Sdonce 8 Educaaoa                 E     a  & Fhac
[       Crop Producton                      AWb M Mki                            Sd      whe    Pgng                      Prim Poe
cmppm&x*n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FSdnii Research 
Programs       _                                                     l       Wak         l                     Inrone lnddrsg
____________                    wioctg.                              San|t|c 8  Tectnical |                     & PIce ParIy
0i Seed and
Indu____M_  _                                                                                             Prbe Poky br C;omercIal
clscmmm                CIS Conu  |Appled Agictl                           Inputs to Agrilture
[1 1 1 1                                      l M kItM                       Reserch Isues
Pasture & Feed                                                          Scientic 8 Indus i| A                     _r Ph  prcng
PasWe&Fend   g   |  AOSy         l               |      ~~~~~~~~~~             ~      ~~~Integraion  I.                         |:
R Pgoducfmn   r                                                               mflb        .                                                    1
I  Sdb   I                                               Ib)~~~~~~~~~~



65                                   ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 10
RussIAN FEDERATION
AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (ARIS) PROJECT
MARKET INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
SUB-SECOR BACKGROUND
1.    Price liberalization and privatization of marketing organizations have been the key elements of
the Russian Government's economic reform program. Since 1992, the Federal Government took
significant initiatives to liberalize prices for a majority of agricultural commodities (inputs and outputs);
reduce formal procurement quotas; allow non-government agencies to buy and sell agricultural produce
in the open market; and break up monopolies. Market-based transactions by producers, traders and
consumers are rapidly expanding. However, broad-based market development could be much faster, had
it not been constrained by the lack of necessary policy and legal framework, institutions and physical
infrastructure.
2.    Future reforms need to focus on redefining the role of MOAF and other federal and local
agencies with regard to agricultural marketing and market development. Institutional limitations include
the lack of adequate retail and wholesale market facilities, a market information system and a
comprehensive system of grades aind standards that will help determine product prices by quality. The
absence of modern storage, packaging, transportation facilities, labeling and containerization have helped
perpetuate the existence of monopolistic institutions of the former command economy.
3.    The main thrust of the proposed project will, therefore, be to provide substantial technical
assistance and training to MOAF and local governments to define their catalytic role in market
development; strengthen their organizations to perform this new role efficiently; and establish legal,
institutional and operational framework for emerging primary and wholesale markets and commodity
exchanges for agricultural products. Concurrently, the project will assist the establishment of a
nationwide market information system and finance few pilot investments to demonstrate systemic and
institutional reforms that should be introduced to promate the development of agricultural marketing.
MARKET INFORMATION SYSTM
The Present System
4.    Russia's prevailing institutional arrangements for collection and dissemination of agricultural
market information have been designed primarily to serve the needs of a command economy. Despite
some improvements, following partial liberalization of the economy, significant gaps remain in the
timeliness, and the range and depth of market information that is available to agricultural producers,
traders, processors, consumers and policy makers.



66                                   ANNEx
Page 2 of 10
5.    Currently, two main agencies are involved in the collection of economic and market information.
These are the State Committee on Statistics (Goskomstat) and MOAF. None of these agencies have
systems which could efficiently serve expanding need for market information. Price information
disseminated by various other agencies and institutions is derived mainly from Goskomstat and MOAF
sources and is supplemented by information provided by commodity exchanges. Goskomstat is not
geared for providing price information on a day-to-day basis. Under the project, MIS will use
Goskomstat; help rationalize its data collection and processing methodologies; and avoid unproductive
and costly overlap in Goskomstat and MOAF activities.
MIS Design
6.    Information flows for the proposed MIS are indicated in Annex Figure 3.1. Information will flow
primarily from rayon offices to oblast offices. Oblast offices will also collect and process local
information and manage the database. Central MIS office at Moscow will draw information from
databases at the oblast level, commodity exchanges, Goskomstat and international databases.
Computer System Design
7.    The computer system will be designed to support the requirements of the overall ARIS project.
This includes Market Information System (MIS), Farmer Information and Advisory Services (FIAS) and
Seed Industry Development (SID). Only MIS and FIAS components of the ARIS project have been
evaluated at this time. The computer system design will utilize the latest hardware and software
technology. RISC based computer systems using UNIX operating systems and the Distributed Computing
Environment (DCE) for the servers have been selected for the computer system design. This design has
several advantages: (i) it is possible to use multiple vendors; (ii) it will proviJe for a wider selection of
peripherals and supporting software; and (iii) it has built-in flexibility for future inclusion of new
hardware technologies without the need to replace or upgrade existing computers or communications
equipment. Network-wide security will be an integral part of the design. The design of the computer
system is based on three tiers of information processing:
o     Rayon Level: The first and smallest of these tiers at the rayon level provide the primary
collection and dissemination points for all information to the farmers. Because the users
of this network have widely varying capabilities, multiple methods of communicating the
information have been included in the design.
•     Oblast Level: Information collected from farmers and processing plants located in each
rayon is forwarded to the oblast centers for processing and consolidation with input from
other rayons. The consolidated information is then sent back to the rayons for their use.
O     Federal Level: Oblast data is forwarded to the Federal Center for final consolidation and
for broadcast back to the oblasts and rayons and to press, radio and television
organizations for public dissemination.
Design Overview
8.    The principle design criteria for the ARIS computer system are: (i) ease of use; (ii) best available
contemporary technology; (iii) ease of expansion and reconfiguration; (iv) security of high value data;



67                                  ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 10
(v) effective use of available communication facilities and bandwidth; (vi) integration with existing
international and domestic services; (vii) rapid implementation. To meet these requirements, the ARIS
computer systems design will be a distributed object network where all users have access to all
information within the constraints of their authorization. Advanced software technology created by the
Oren Software Foundation (OSF) known as the Distributed Computing Environment (DCE) technology
was selected as the common framework across all computers located in the network. A user can be
granted access to any information on a selective basis. If access is not granted, that information will be
excluded from the user's processing view. To meet the need to interface ARIS with other international
and domestic networks, the Federal server provides all ARIS users an interface to the Internet and to
multiple commodity networks.
Computer Network Topology
9.    The ARIS computer network is designed to be expanded over the next five years to more than
1500 nodes (addressable computers) networked together as a distributed computing system. Each location
with the computer system may have access to one or both of the existing X.25 packet net'.orks. The
network provides communications circuits between any two computers (nodes) upon request but,
normally, little information will move directly between the end Lisers. End users are clustered and
supported by a single rayon processing facility, which, in turn, is clustered with other rayons within a
single oblast. Normally, most of the information will flow from the end user to the assigned rayon's
location and then to its associated oblast processing center. Each oblast will have a powerful server that
will consolidate and process all of the data received from the geographically dispersed rayons. This
consolidated information will be made available to the Federal server for additional consolidation and
processing. The consolidated data will be supplied to the Russian radio, TV and print media. The
Federal data will also be passed back to all oblasts for distribution back to the rayons and ultimately to
the end users.
10.   Applications developed for the ARIS project will consist of both off-the-shelf personal
productivity packages and applications custom built for commodity information collection, consolidation
and distribution. All applications, regardless of their source, will be integrated into a single, consistent
graphical interface. The user will only have to learn a single way to accomplish almost all tasks. As an
example, entry of text will be the same for E-Mail as for a letter. Numerical information will be the
same for a spreadsheet as for collection of commodity prices. Any information created will be available
for use by all applications without error-prone data conversions.
Telecommunications
11.   There are three major interrelated problems with the telecom infrastructure in the Russian
Federation at the present time: (i) there are insufficient telephone mainlines and telephones; (ii) the
telephone switching and transmission network is inadequate, resulting in many failed attempts; and (iii)
when a connection is completed, the transmission quality, even in Moscow, is usually very poor.
Although the teletypewriter system of telecommunication service is being phased out in Western
Countries, it operates very well in the Russian Federation and is widely used. The most common and
preferred way of connecting computers for most applications is the X.25 Packet Switching Service.
Coverage of oblast and some rayon seats by at least two carriers was quite good and growing. Moreover,
the real problem with the service appears to be underutilization, which is a pleasant problem from the
computer user's viewpoint. Radio Telephone Service offers another means for reaching end-users, i.e.,



68                                      _
Page 4 of 10
users located outside oblast and rayon seats. There are agricultural areas in Russia where a user may be
an hour's drive or more from the nearest telephone. The ITU report estimates that in 1991, 36,000 rural
settlements had no access to a telephone. The report goes on to say that newer technologies, notably
satellite and radio-based commnunications, could alleviate the problem but the issue of who pays remains
unsolved. Cellular telephones are clearly not the right solution as they require far greater densities of
use than what is needed for this project. Locally developed radio systems that can connect about 35
subscribers to a base station at a cost of less than US$20,000 exist. It is a very cost-effective solution
in many situations and is being tried out as a pilot in this project.
12.   The MIS and FIAS systems will have similar telecom topologies. The telecom subsystem design
should be independent of whether the two systems share computers or locations. The objectives of the
MIS/FIAS telecom subsystem will be: (i) effectiveness (i.e., ability to do the job for which it is designed;
(ii) efficiency, including low cost; (iii) flexibility, including independence of any rules regarding data flow
and ease of adding new computer centers; (iv) low error rate; (v) single data entry; and (vi)
Reliability/Uptime. The MIS/FIAS telecom subsystem will make use of the existing and planned telecom
infrastructure, the expansion of which is not within the scope of this project.
13.   A number of alternative telecommunication solutions varying in terms of practicability,
effectiveness and cost were reviewed and evaluated by the appraisal mission and the conclusion was
reached that the best alternative was the use of the X.25 packet switching network. At present, there are
two reasonably well deployed packet switching networks that serve many of the proposed MIS/FIAS
locations (i.e., oblast and rayon seats). Both the MOT ROSPAC network and SPRINT NETWORKS are
operational. By the beginning of 1994, the ROSPAC network will have switching nodes in 64 oblast
centers and 27 rayon centers. SPRINT -with 31 current locations-has somewhat smaller coverage, but
has formed partnerships with several regional networks. There are also other providers of X.25 services.
All of the providers have plans for expanding their networks. In the short run, the rayon level MIS and
FIAS sections will make use of available telecommunication systems, including telefax and mailing
diskettes. MOAF's computer center, in association with MOT, will be responsible for establishing the
most efficient telecommunication network in each oblast and rayon.
Computer System Organization
14.   MOAFCC is being reorganized to meet the needs of the computer systems for the MIS and FPAS
components. The new MOAFCC management structure will reflect the distributed nature of the computer
network on which it is built. The MOAFCC at the federal level will direct the day-to-day operations,
plan initial installations and upgrades, create future plans, conduct or arrange for all of the user and
technical training and interface to the functional organizations. MIS and FIAS would view the MOAFCC
as the computer and network services provider. Each facility at the rayon and oblast levels will have
local management primarily responsible for the operation of the MIS and FIAS components. The oblast
management will have responsibility for a majority of the network's daytime activities and the
MOAFCC assuming overall responsibility after normal business hours. The new organizational structure
(see Annex Figure 3.2) will consist of four divisions, viz. operations, design and architecture, training
and application development.



69                                   ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 10
PILT INVESTMENTS IN MARKET DEVELOPMENT
15.   The project will finance pilot investments to demonstrate systemic and institutional reforms that
should be introduced to promote development of agricultural marketing. MOAF, in consultation with
local governments, suggested three administrative units for the ARIS project: Moscow City, Moscow
Oblast and Belgorod Oblast. The project emphasis is on developing marketing systems for fruit and
vegetables as this sub-Fector has been substantially liberalized, unlike grain and livestock products. Some
25 sub-projects were identified and reviewed by technical experts on the Bank Preparation and Appraisal
missions. Likely sub-projects are identified in Table Annex Tables 3.1-3.3 though additional sub-projects
which are consistent with the project concept could be included during project implementation, if such
investments provide satisfactory financial and economic rates of returns and the borrowing enterprises
satisfy eligibility criteria.
16.   It is important to emphasize that the proposed project is not intended to meet even a small part
of the prevailing demand for investment funds which must be increasingly met by addressing current
market failures and price distortions and strengthening the commercial banking system which can provide
longer term credit to enterprises. The technical consultants on Bank missions have made inportant
recommendations on designs and layouts and choice of technology. This analysis indicated that if the
Bank must finance market investments, it is important to analyze the status of the total marketing chain -
- from production to retailing and require enterprises to address related constraints as to ensure the
financial feasibility of the investments. Currently, the productivity and product quality at most
enterprises, especially in potato and vegetables, is poor and must be substantially improved. The post-
harvest technology is also outdated causing considerable losses to producers. Although cold storages for
cabbage and other seasonal vegetables are expected to be viable with current levels of productivity and
product quality, the project provides for technical assistance to participating farms for introduction of new
varieties which could be stored for longer times and contribute to productivity improvements. Substantial
improvements can be made by restructuring production by relocating production on lands which are
suitable for potato, by introducing new varieties that are suitable for long-term storage; and by providing
modern post-harvest facilities. The project will, therefore, finance on a pilot basis, only the renovation
of existing potato storages to improve their efficiency.



70 
pw8 6 of 10
Annex Table 3.1 Likely Sub-projects in Moscow City
Name of sub-project        Proposed Development          Market Development Themes
1. Sverdolovskaya Fruit    1. Construction of a distribution
and Vegetable Base       and shipping center;
2. Modernization of an existing
4,000 ton potato storage;
Assist the bases to change their past
3. Construction of a mini     functions as city government's longer
wholesale market (18 stands); a   term storages and distribution
cash and carry market and     facilities for fruit and vegetables to
lodging facility for traders;  mini wholesale markets; cash and
carry markets and distribution
4. Improvement of hygiene and    centers.
sanitation conditions.
2. Perovskaya Fruit and    1. Establish a small mini-   Increase profitability; broaden
Vegetable Base           wholesale market (24 stands);  product range; improve quality of
products supplied to consumers;
2. Provide cash and carry     improve producers incentives by
market facilities;            allowing them to participate in mini-
wholesale tnarkets. Establish rues of
3. Reconstruction of packaging    business for mini wholesale and cash
facilities;                   and carry markets.
4. Improvement of hygiene and
sanitation conditions;



71
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 10
Annex Table 3.2 Likely Sub-projects it Moscow Oblsst
Name of sub-project          Proposed Developraent                       Market Development Themes
1. Ozera JSC           Cold storages for cabbage (9,000
(Ozersky rayon)        tons);
TA and incremental working capita
for restructuring of production plans  1. Move long-term storage from Moscow City to production
and productivity improvements.      sites to reduce transportation and storage losses, improve
producer incentives; restructure production plans by introducing
2. Seigievskoye JSC    Cold storage for cabbage (3000 tons);   varieties suitable for long-term storage, improve productivity,
(Kolomna rayon)                                            product quality and post-hanvest operations; introdnce producer
TA and incremental working capitll  participation in wholesale marketing and distribution; promote
for restructuring of production plans  market-oriented, eterprise refortn and financial management;
and productivity improvemeaes.      create new jobs and improve rural incomes;
3. Podmoskovnoye JSC   Cold storage for vegetables (6000
(Ramenski rayon)      tons);
2. The mission has developed technical recommendations to
TA and incremental woring capital   upgrade traditional designs  reduce storage losses from over
for restructuring of production pla  10% to about 2%. In the medium-term, upgrading of existing
and productivity improvements.      potato storages will be critical to sustain the profitability of
4. Bunyatino JSC       Cold storage for cabbage (3000 tons);   potato pzoduction (without govenment subsidies);
(Diifrov rayon)
TA and incremental working capital
for restucuring of production plans  3. Incremental working capital will be cridcal to introduce new
and productivity improvements.      variedes suitable for long term storage, improved crop
5. Kulikovski JSC      Cold storage for cabbage (4500 tons);   husbandry and post-harvest facilides.
(imitov Rayon)
TA and incremental working capital
for restuctuig of production pbns
I and productivity improvements.
Note: Storage capacities indicated above may undergo changes following the preparation of feasibility studies.



72                                          ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 10
Annex Table 3.3 Likely Sub-projects in Belgorod Oblast
Name of sub-project    Proposed Development                    Market Development Themes
1. Raspetrobsoyuz Fruits    Install refrigeration system for a   The fruit and vegetable base, which has been a part
and Vegetable Base (Joint    400 ton cold storage; establish    of the state procurement and distribution system,
Stock Company)            packing and grading lines and  would convert itself into a wholesaler providing
supporting infrastructure     services to producers in Belgorod Oblast to market
products in other oblasts. It will also introduce a
cash and carry market.
2. Plodoovoshprom Fruits    Upgrading of the base through  The fruit and vegetable base will change its past
and Vegetable Base (In the   reconstruction of storage and  role as a state procurement and distribution agency
process of privatization)  refrigeration systems and     to a distribution center serving all retailers through
convert into a distribution center   a cash and carry market and direct deliveries. It
and a cash and carry market   would broaden range of products and provide an
impolw4nt link to producers.



73                                             ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 10
Annex Figure 3.1: Flow Chart of Market Information System
Information Collecdion                       Informafon ProcIsng                   lnformation DisseminatIon
Natonnwsp w
Com rodt Exchatss maguhies
MOAF Hesdofmo
Goskaomt_t                               p                                                agc Impenwci1n  Pro"  es
1tational DStsbos                           MOAF CompAter CentSe   h?om pacr
HardwarelS ie b bsbnTelion
Obimtrewspapers,
_ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fam mag.zne
int prodes                                  Obb o                                          re (do and
mnhkwy, farUl-r,                       t:  soing al _dn                                      n b s
seeder, p es, e.                           reohe  ftm nwon oRbe)                           u
Speclfizd kdtomaUon
Outpu produces
Stmtefeooletlvsprlt farms
Agrm    processos_ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
meatdalrWftul & vegetable edc.La   rwpm
Private traders                              wd     bn                              EidAgwln seivice
Markcets
RetaNWholesaWe
Conomrar coaperatiws



74                                      ANNEX 3
PagelO of 10
Annex Figure 3.2: Proposed Organization for ARIS Project MOAF Computer System
Minisby of'Agiculture and Food
Computer Center
Architecture Disnon         Operations DvisiAon        D     pmention            Training Didsion
Help|DkIn-House ApplicatDons 1
Systems and Network
Management
Instalaton and
Upgrading
Field Operations                                                Other 



75                                   ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 7
RussIAN FEDERATIoN
AGRiCULTURAL REFORM MPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (ARIES) PROJECT
FARMER INFORMWTION AND ADvISORY SERVICE
INFORMATION SYS1EM IN THE PASr
1.    In the past, the information system in virtually all sectors was strictly state controlled and was
essentially designed to meet the requirements of centralized planning. The system offered limited
opportunities for meeting the information needs, especially those of the agricultural producers, at the
grass roots level. This resulted in the development of specialists in large state and collective farms. These
specialists served as in-house specialists in addressing a variety of crop and livestock related problems.
This was supplemented by research and field applications through a wide network of a variety of
agricultural research institutes and experimental stations. Most of the research results were introduced
through directives, with few incentives to promote new innovations.
2.    Although the education and training system in the Russian Federation was designed to meet the
requirements of a socialistic economy, the most positive outcome was its contribution to making the
Russian Federation obtain one of the highest literacy rates in the world. Despite the significant structural
reforms initiated since December 1991, not much progress has been made to educate the people on basic
principles of market economics, standard business practices and to develop an appropriate information
system, which is freely accessible to those who desire to use it. This is particularly important in the
context of the many forms of newly emerging farm structures.
3.    Information services for farms and farmers were an integral part of the former centralized system
of information services. Very little information sourcing, message development or media packaging took
place at the local level. Data was channeled to Moscow where information packages, based on a central
assessment of local needs, were developed and transmitted from the center directly to the state and
collective farms, primarily via dense print publications. Radio, TV and, to some extent, computers were
used as dissemination mechanisms. The channels by which farms and farmers have been receiving
information were few and there were no avenues for cross-checking the information received. The
centralized system was primarily aimed at meeting production targets.
INFORMATION SYSITM IN THE PRESET
4.    The break-up of the former Soviet Union and break-down in administrative structures has created
a widening "infonmation gap" to all types of agricultural producers. The present budgetary problems,
and the resulting shortage of resources, has sharply curtailed the government's ability to meet the growing
demand for basic information to agricultural producers. Developing information packages that are
responsive to local perceptions and needs will entail a reorientation of those involved in the information
development and dissemination. The main goal of the Farmer Information and Advisory Services
component, therefore, is to provide the most critical information support services needed to bridge this



76                                   AMA 4
Page 2 of 7
"information gap" and enable the new types of emerging farm organizations to transform to a market
economy.
PROJECr CONCEPr: NED BASED 4-M MODUL4R APPROACH
5.    The underlying concept of this component is need based Multi-source, Multi-user, Multi-
disciplinary and Multimedia approach (hereafter referred to as the 4-M modular approach). This concept
has been illustrated in Annex Figure 4.1. It consis.s of the following four steps: (i) participatory
diagnostic information needs assessment; (ii) development of information packages; (iii) multi-Media
Information dissemination; and (iv) feedback mechanisms.
6.    The FIAS component is based on the development of existing institutions, availability of an
extensive network of agricultural research institutes, laboratories and chemical stations, land data banks,
academies and universities, a highly skilled labor force and provides for flexibility to incorporate rapidly
evolving changes in the information technology environment. It also takes into consideration the available
communication infrastructure, logistic problems associated with a dispersed farm population and local
technological and resource constraints.
Partiipatory diagnosc information needs .;essment
7.    The first step is to assess the end-user's information needs. A wide range of agricultural clientele
would be the target group and it would encompass all types of restructured farms, individual farmers,
agro-processing enterprises, household gardeners and agricultural related public. A participatory process,
directly involving the various end-users to define and prioritize their information needs, will be used.
This process would assist in the assessment of the demand for information, local problems, constraints
and the expectations of the various users from the information system.
8.    In this regard, the All Russian Scientific and Research Institute of Innovation and Management
in Agriculture (ARSRIIMA) has already carried out a comprehensive multi-user information needs survey
in 36 rayons in 12 regions (Kemerovo, Kostroma, Lipetsk, Nizhny Novgorod, Rostov, Ryazan, Vladimir,
Voronezh, Tambov, Krasnodar, Bashkortostan and Tartarstan). The respondents were frmn households,
joint stock companies, collective fArms, state farms, partnerships and individual farmers. Over 5000
types of information on various types of agricultural activity was obtained. Based on the response, the
following specific areas of information needs were identified:
o     Priority One: Legal and financial information, especially pertaining to changing laws on
privatization and land; credit availability, banking and taxation issues, how to set up a
farm business, farm management techniques and principles of market accounting;
*     Priority Two: Methods of processing of agricultural products, especially milk and meat;
O     Priority 7hree: Information on various aspects of mechanization, with special reference
to mini-machinery, mini-production lines, complex mechanization for grain production,
mobile harvesters, small tractors and general agricultural machinery;
O     Priority Four: Application of new veterinary medicines and its availability, especially
with reference to poultry, fur-bearing animals, fish and bees.



77                                     ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 7
9.    The development of multi-disciplinary information packages will be based on the results of an
on-going client information needs assessment process. That process would systematically combine
recording specific requests from individual farmers with the results of interactive needs assessment
forums.  In the context of these forums, outside specialists representing national and international
perspectives engage a selected group of farmers from the region in an interactive dialogue where new
ideas from the outside are exchanged with the local farmer viewpoints to create an ever-evolving
prioritization of farmer information needs. As this is a key step, which would determine the success of
the FIAS component, the project will introduce modern tested methods for determining what types of
infornation various clients want, in what detail and willingness to pay for this service. It will also provide
facilitator training for FIAS staff in the dynamics of multi-stakeholder consensus building processes.
Development of information packages
10.   The second step involves the development of client and media specific multi-disciplinary
information packages from a variety of sources.
11.   Sources of Information: There are a number of scientific and research institutes operating in the
Russian Federation, which cater to various types of agricultural data needs. Broadly, there are two
academies, 249 agricultural scientific and research institutes, various independent institutes and
universities. Given the broad range of available source of information, the FIAS component would
initially focus on those sources which are suited to providing the information in greatest demand by the
various users. This makes the needs assessment aspect of the project extremely important. Some of the
potential sources infonnation are provided below.
12.   Russian Acadeny of Agricultural Sciences (RAAS): The main institution in agricultural research
is the RAAS, founded in early 1992, as thz successor to its previous Soviet counterpart, to assume apex
responsibility for infrastructure, staff and programs. Increasingly, the MOAF is assuming a larger share
of this responsibility, and may be poised to respond more quickly to the demands of reform. Also, the
Ministry of Science, Higher Education and Technology Policy (MOS) contributes to agricultural research,
mainly through its policy-setting and funding influence over RAAS, and its conduct of basic scientific
research, for example, on biogenetics and nuclear energy.
13.   RAAS also coordinates agro-industrial research, provides training of scientific personnel and
maintains professional links with foreign countries. Under its umbrella, RAAS administers a variety of
support institutions, ranging from design offices, research institutes and experiment stations to state
experimental farms, agro-processing and seed factories. Facilities within the RAAS structure are also
the primary suppliers of crop production inputs, such as basic seeds and pedigree livestock. Associated
with these institutions and facilities are numerous personnel and vast tracts of land. As the agricultural
research and higher education enterprise, integrated and coupled to the broadened concept of extension,
breaks out of previously rigid structures of being funded and operated, new ways of doing research,
training and servicing new clients and new sources of funding are likely to emerge.
14.   Regional scientific research institutes: Scientific research on the various aspects of wheat
production is the responsibility of 16 selection and production centers, located in various regional
scientific research institutes. These institutes deal with the creation of varieties, provide agronomic
recommendations specific to local soil, climate and environmental conditions. This on-going research
is carried out under the broad umbrella of tie All Russian Scientific and Technical Program, "Grain and



78                                   ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 7
Grain Products", State Scientific and Technical Programn called "Perspective Agricultural Production
Processes". The research is also coordinated with oth;,. International Research Institutes, such as
ICARDA in Syria, CIMMYT in Mexico and ICRISAT in India. Research in oilseed crops, to provide
another example, is being carried out by the All Russian Scientific Institute for oilseed crops which has
active cooperation with various selection centers in other countries, such as Cargill Enterprises, USA,
Institute of Field Crops and Vegetables in Novi Sad, Institute of Sunflower and Wheat in Yugoslavia,
Institute of Selection and Acclimatization of Plants in Poland and the Research Institute of Grain and
Technical Crops in Romania. Another important crop, which is grown mostly by the private sector, is
potatoes whose research on 107 potato varieties is carried out by the All Russian Scientific and Research
Institute of potato growing which has research centers spread out all over the country. Similar research
is being carried out for other important grains, such as rye, barley, maize, oats and oilseed crops.
15.   Academies as sources of information: The most important agricultural academy is the Tinmryazev
Academy, which is the oldest and most prestigious agricultural educational institution in the Russian
Federation. Over the last 25 years, it has trained about 20,000 agronomists, agricultural chemists,
livestock specialists, economists and 7000 teachers for secondary agricultural educational schools. It
produces a variety of manuals on various agricultural aspects which is widely used.
16.   Management Institutes: A vatiety of technical and management institutes have emerged focussing
on providing training and developing a range of specialized materials needed for preparing basic farm
business plans, evolving market strategies, evaluation of business alternatives and financial analysis.
17.   Development of multi-disciplinary information packages: The rayon and oblast level FLAS
centers will be the primary contact points for the provision of farmer information. These centers would
provide agricultural advisory services and serve as the primary source of agricultural information. Trained
specialists in these centers would have access to a variety of information, agricultural packages and
databases made available through the electronic network. These centers would also have a variety of
locally developed and international materials related to various aspect of agriculture. Close coordination
will be maintained with the MIS centers. In situations where the rayon level specialists are unable to
provide the required information, these will be channeled to the oblast information development centers
and the Federal FIAS center, where staff would research a range of local, national and international
sources for relevant material. FIAS staff would be trained in how to source for material relevant to a
particular information need using various techniques, including the use of electronic clearinghouses and
databases.
18.   During the first few months of project implementation, the emphasis would be on the development
of very basic information packages as follows: (i) principles of farm management; (ii) essentials of farm
business planning; (iii) current land reform regulations; (iv) how to obtain credit; (v) environmental
regulations; (vi) technical advice on selected critical farm problems; (vii) do's and don'ts of basic fanning
practices; and (viii) basic market information on crops, livestock and inputs.
19.   The most important design criteria for the development of the basic farmer information packages
is simplicity, both in comprehension and language in order for it to be effective and useful. Due to the
lack of appropriate terminology of some critical Western concepts of business and economics in the
Russian language, new terms, which can be easily understood by the farmer, may have to be created in
Russian.



79                                  ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 7
20.   Multi-Media Information Packaging: The specialized information would be translated into
everyday terms familiar to each target audience and present it in a format that makes common sense and
has immediate practical value. The project will focus on skill enhancements that will demonstrate how
the agricultural user can employ an array of media strategies to increase his exposure to a wide range of
choices.  These approaches will be developed and tested. Methodologies will be extended to the
expanding national program once the innovations and new technologies involved have been refined, tested
and evaluated to assess impact, cost effectiveness and adaptability to other oblasts.
Multi-Media Information Dissemination
21.   Dissemination of information packages will be coordinated through the FIAS centers. A variety
of media would be used to channel farmer information to multiple users. This will include television,
video, print, radio, agricultural fairs and exhibitions and computer. The FIAS staff will be trained in
distributing messages into a multimedia package. They will be trained to ascertain which components
of the message are more appropriate for radio, video, print and computer diskette. Once the various
aspects of the message are assigned to specific media, the FIAS center will then sub-contract its media
package to particular media-production agencies, coordinating the development of the overall package.
22.   Some information needs are expected to reflect local conditions while others are expected to
emerge simultaneously in various parts of the country reflecting concerns common in all parts of the
country. These more general concerns will be referred by the projects coordinating body, where
appropriate, to national media outlets as the basis for the development of national mass media information
packages. These too may involve the coordinated development of video/TV, radio, print and computer-
based information products in order to effectively respond to the particular need identified.
23.   Video Productions: MOA'S Video Center. The MOAF currertly has a video unit in Moscow. Its
main function is to provide support for press conferences and serve as a media outlet for visiting
delegations, agreement ceremonies and coverage of important agricultural events. The project will assist
the MOAF in the establishment of national and international agricultural video library in Moscow. As
the video unit has tremendous potential to contribute to farmer information services, the FIAS component
would support the production and dissemination of a number of video programs. The proposed video
productions during the first project year are: (i) improved agricultural techniques; (ii) organization and
delivery of agricultural services; (iii) appropriate technologies for planting grain, fodder crops and
vegetables; (iv) st6ring techniques for various agricultural commodities; (v) intensive technologies for
animal breeding; and (vi) veterinary provision and animal care. AKKOR Video Center: The projects
support for AKKOR video center would enable it to produce a variety of productions aimed at the
infonnation needs of the private farmer. These would include: (i) mini sketches of life in the private
farm - problems and solutions; (ii) new farmers and their development; (iii) world experiences of farmers
and relating to local needs; (iv) programs for the private farner; and (v) exchange farmer. The video
productions are also expected to be aired in national television.
24.   Print Publications: Print publications will be divided between the AKKOR publications and
publications developed by the federal FIAS center and will be printed through the existing facilities at the
MOAF or through contractual services. Those infornation packages targeting newly independent family
farmers will be distributed through AKKOR while those targeting specialists and the reorganized state
and collective farms will be distributed through the FIAS federal center. Print productions are expected
to concentrate on center spreads or inserts to national, regional and local newspapers related to the



80                                   ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 7
information packages being developed by the information centers of those areas. These would provide
farmer oriented newspapers, brochures, pamphlets in a form which is user friendly and of immediate
relevance to meeting the information needs of private farmers and agri-business enterprises.
25.   Training will be provided to ensure that print productions become engaging to the FIAS client
groups, rather than a continuation of the old pattern of dense print journals laden with technical jargon.
Pages will be developed with generous open spaces, graphics, photos, symbols and other non-print visual
imagery while the text itself will incorporate subtitles, columns, featured quotes, black/white reversals,
section divisions and controlled vocabulary.
26.   Because of the number of different organizations producing print material of relevance to specific
agricultural client groups, the project will establish an electronic document clearinghouse that will
catalogue all the documents available on a given topic with a brief description to facilitate search and find.
A stock of the key documents will be maintained with fax back and mail services for servicing client
group requests.
27.   Computer: The use of computers, as a means of obtaining a variety of information, is expected
to increase over the next few years. The establishment of the necessary electronic infrastructure would
provide a critically needed support service. Initially, as the use of computers is expected to be slow, the
focus will be on training and the development of appropriate agricultural data bases in selected oblasts
and rayons. Based on the experience gained, and the response of the clients, dissemination of information
through the electronic media will be developed.
Update through feedback mechanism
28.   The changing needs of the various clients requires frequent updating of information in a variety
of areas, most notably on various agricultural reforms, liberalization measures, price and subsidy policies
and the problems faced by the emerging private farmers and enterprises. The FIAS component
incorporates a feedback mechanism, which will use tested modern methods, in order to adapt the
information development, packaging and its dissemination to suit the client needs.



81                                                   AMU 4
Page 7 of 7
Annex Figure 4.1: Proposed Farmner Information Development and Dissemination
System: 4-M Modular Approach
-Feedback                                  e>I(_Needsma_                                                 Feedback-
Needs
--nn-Farmer InfoDmation Development
|Russian Research                                                         I ntemational Research
|        Academies                                                          np/ut _ es
[Agricultufal Insfuin    X                                           /         Foreign Sources         |
Univelsi                            Iformlon                                Loa / Foeg
I                 |  /l: ~~~~~~~~Sorces            <                    Date Banks
Z    |  ~~~Govt Aenens                                                                 Inu Sup\
Information Development for Client & Media
(Buines, Marbt, Technl Lea, En*Wrnen
Mt4 . .discpfinary 
---------------------------------- -     --                --......             - ...-..         ..--------------------------------
il  1         3              + 3                  E1 1 ~~~~~~~~& Fairsm
MuNmedias 
MuNu" et                                                 2t 
r .......... -7 ................. -........................ ~ -- ----------------  IV   .............. IV~^^  .....................~* ~~    ~~         ~~ @~~   ~~    ~
' Privabe           CollectielState    Auro Processing                 Farm  Related             Household 
,   Forms              Farms                Industries                EnterpIs                    Plots
................................................................................. ............................................................................................................................................ 



82                                   ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 9
RUssIAN FEDERATION
AGRICULTURAL REFORM IPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (APS) PROJECT
SEED INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT
IN1ODUCrION
1.    Although Russia has the potential to produce all the required seed domestically, processing units
with up-to-9 -te technology, manag.-ment skills to produce seeds of international standard and required
policy environment for commercial seed industry are lacking. Demand for high quality seed is strong
and expected to expand but remains largely unsatisfied. MOAF continues to perform its pre-reform role:
allocating seed targets to oblasts' governments/farms; fixing seed prices; administering seed subsidies;
and directing distribution of seed. For the Russian seed industry to change from the state system to a
commercial system, it is essential to provide the necessary institutional and policy framework for efficient
functioning of private seed enterprises. Increasingly, seed production and marketing decisions must be
taken by seed growers, processors, and traders in response to market demand. The govenmment has to
encourage establishment of commercial seed enterprises in the private sector and provide necessary
support to market oriented seed industry in terms of varietal improvement, quality control, and setting
up of certification standards. This is the main theme of the seed industty development component of this
project.
REcENT INATIVES To PRIVATZE THE SEED INDUSIRY
2.    The government has taken a few, but important, initiatives towards establishing a competitive seed
industry through: (i) privatization: by Decree No. 708, dated September 4, 1992, the Government has
initiated privatization of all enterprises including seed enterprises and sovkhozes and kolkhozes
specializing in seed production; (ii) elimination of pice ceiling: elimination of price ceilings on hybrid
corn seed and oilseeds including sunflower, to encourage private seed production and competitive
marketing; and (iii) protection ofplant breeders'rights: enactment of law in August 1993 to protect plant
breeders' rights.
3.    The Russian seed inlustry is regulated by: (i) the State Commission for Varietal Testing
(Gosortkomissia) which requires .ompulsory registration of all seed varieties by the Variety Testing
Service (ii) the State Seed Inspection System (Gosseminspektsia) for quality control which ensures seed
inspection, certification and labelling of seeds supported by seed testing laboratories; and (iii) a plant
quarantine system which ensures prevention of plant pests and diseases through imports of pest and
disease free planting materials.
SED PRICING POuCY
4.    The government policy to administer seed prices has consistently reduced incentives to produce
high quality seeds and has contributed to reduced levels of investments in seed industry. For example,



83                                  ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 9
the corn seed price was determined by a formula of administered grain price plus a certain percentage
for varietal quality for seed multiplication (usually 700% of grain price fixed for hybrid corn)+25% of
costs for corn seed processing. This pricing formula demonstrated to the enterprises that higher profits
can be attained not by efficiency enhancement but by increased costs. [ ow prices of seed raise serious
questions about the financial viability of investments in seed industry though such investments could be
justified on economic grounds, as increased production of quality seeds will lead to import substitution.
However, this project requires and the government has agreed to liberalize hybrid corn and sunflower
seed prices and to eliminate seed subsidies for the imported and domestic seeds for these crops.
WHY CORN AND SUNFOWER SEEDS?
5.    Russia's annual imports of grain, over the last few years, has been around 20 million tons, 40%
of which has been corn, worth about US$1 billion. Further, around 40,000 tons of corn seeds are
imported, valued at over US $ 60 million annually to meet the domestic demand for corn grain and silage
production. Corn area in Russia has averaged around 11 nillion ha (1986-1991): about 1.4 million ha
under grain and the balance (9.7 million ha) under silage. The demand for com seed is estimated to be
around 450,000 tons. Until recently, the major area of corn seed production in FSU was in Ukraine and
Moldova. Following the break-up of FSU, this supply source has been disrupted. Corn seed availability
within Russia is now limited to 240,000 tons. Corn grain yields are around 3.0 to 3.8 tons per ha
(average in 1988-92 was 3.16 tons) although potential yields could be 6 to 10 tons. In the case of
sunflower, yields have been around 0.8 to 1.6 tons (the average in 1988- 92 was 1.33 tons). These yields
can be increased to 2.5 to 3 tons/ba by improving quality of seeds. Farms are convinced that when a
good quality hybrid seeds are used, the productivity improves dramatically.
6.    Sunflower is an important source of vegetable oil in Russia. Demand for vegetable oil in Russia
is about 2.5 million tons. Annual Russian imports are around 600,000 tons of vegetable oil, worth US
$ 275 million and oilseed meal worth US$ 500 million. During 1992, about 850 tons of sunflower seeds
were imported at a cost of US $ 3.7 million. Area under sunflower varies betwveen 2.8 to 3.1 million
ha, with a production range of 2.9 to 3.4 million tons. Area under sunflower is increasing rapidly. It
has increased form 2.1 million ha in 1987 to 2.9 million ha in 1992. The yield varies between 0.6 to
1.2 tons per ha. Only 10% of the area is covered with hybrids. There is potertial for development and
production of high quality seeds of hybrid sunflower. This will improve genetic quality of the seeds used
in the traditional area of Central Chernozome and Volga Valley. Nearly 40% yield increase can be
attained by using good quality hybrid sunflower seeds. Enhancing the quality and quantity of hybrid
sunflower seeds can enhance production, improve vegetable oil availability and save foreign exchange.
The project, therefore, supports Government effort to enhance the production of quality hybrid seeds of
corn and sunflower.
EXIsG SE) PRODUCrlON AND PROCESSING SYsm
7.    Russian hybrid corn and sunflower seeds production structure includes two tier system. (i)
experimental farms of research institutes - which produce elite and primary seeds of inbred lines (A and
B, male and female parents of hybrids); (ii) specialized seed farms (semkhozes)which produce seeds of
single or double cross hybrids. Increasingly, parent seed lines of these crops are produced, processed and
distributed by Scientific Production Unions called "Nauchno Proizvodstvennie Obejineniya' (NPOs)
attached to the regional crop research stations of RAAS.



84                                   ANNA S
Page 3 of 9
8.    There are 81 corn seed processing units in Russia, most of them (75) belong to Roskhleboprodukt
(RKP) and were built during the 60's. Most of these plants are worn-out and outdated. RAAS has 4
units and the MOAF (Federal) 2 units. RAAS units are relatively new but are not being fully utilized.
RKP organizes contract production in kolkhozes, sovkhozes and semkhozes, procures at the government
determined quota and prices, processes and distributes to farms. Considerable losses occur, in terms of
quantity and quality, both in processing units and in production fields. Processing equipments and
technology employed are outdated. Quality control at both research institutes and seed production suffer
due to lack of accountability and incentives. As a result, seeds produced are of very poor standard. The
management in dtese plants is poor and they are run without any cost recovery considerations. The
installed capacity for corn in Russia is reported in Annex Table 5.1.
Annex Table 5.1: Existing Installed Capacity for Com Processing (January 1993)
Kray/Oblast/      R K P              R AA S           M O A F           Total
Republics                                                              Installed
No   Capacity     No   Capacity   No   Capacity    Capacity
(tons)             (tons)           (tons)     (tons)
Krasnodar         27   83,250         1    5,000      1     10,000     98,000
Rostov            11   36,000               -                          36,000
Stavropol         10   38,000            -       -           -         38,000
Belgorod           3    4,000         1    10,000            -          14,000
Voronezh           3    9,000               -                -          9,000
Volgograd          1    1,500         1    5,000             -          6,500
Kabardino Baikar   9   50,000         -     -         1    5,000       55,000
North-Ossetia      6   32,000         -     -         -      -         32,000
Chechen            3    7,500         1    5,000             _          12,500
lngushk               1  1,500   _          -         -      -          1,500
TOTAL            75   226,250       4    25,000      2     15,000     266,250
9.    There are a number of joint stock (iS) seed companies besides RKP that are in the process of
becoming private in near future, e.g., Rossiskaya Semenal (RS) and some of its affiliates. Some
companies have recently registered as private joint stock companies, including KUBANGIBRID in
Krasnodar, ZOLOTOI POCHATOK of Voronezh, AZOVSKAYA SEMENA in Rostov, KADGORAN
KUKURUZA ASSOSIATSIA of North Ossetia, VOLGA GIBRID of Volgograd, CHERNOZOMIA
MASLO of Belgorod. These companies are formally established as independent companies. There are
also some kolkhozes and sovkhozes specializing in seed production which have become JS seed farms and
have formally become shareholders in the JS seed companies, as in the case of BARI seed company in
Krasnodar. These privately owned, once Govermnent-owned or quasi-government seed enterprises, are
t/Establi*ed by MOAF in 1991 as joint stock company responsible for production and maketing of seed. It is the most active seed
company at the national level amd bas 46 affliates at oblast level for organizing production and marketing of 210.000 tons of seeds.



85                                   ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 9
not able to improve their activities in terms of quantity and quality. They are unable to modernize
processing units because of the lack of access to foreign exchange to import modem equipment.
REsARCH SUPPORT TO THE SD INDUsTRY
Corn
10.   Seed research, in general, is carried out in a variety of specialized research institutes, agricultural
universities and research stations. There are 29 selection centers and 403 seed multiplication farms of the
RAAS. Most of the corn breeding program was concentrated in Dnepropetrovsky in Ukraine under the
VASKhNIL in the Former Soviet Union. Now the corn breeding program has been shifted to Krasnodar
Lukyanenko Research Institute and Nalchik, Kabardino-Balkar. The quality of corn breeding program
is mixed. Some of the research on plant breeding and genetics are of high quality, some breeding centers
are staffed with highly qualified breeders and professionals. Some of the hybrids released and area
covered is reported in Annex Table 5.2. Corn hybrid parent seeds are processed in the NPOs and
provided to farms for Fl seed production. The installed capacity at 13 crop research stations is reported
in Annex Table 5.3.
Annex Table 5.2: Com hybrids and their use in Russian Federation during 1993
Name of the com Hybrids     Type of     Year of     Maturity type  % area- under
crosses     release                   hybrids
Moldovsky-218 MV            Triple      1987        Early         24
Dneprovsky 141 MV           Double      1990        Early          6
Collective 160TV            Triple      1988        Early          8
Collective 244MV            Single      1986        Medium        12
ROSS 331 MV                 Triple      1990        Medium         9
ODMA 310 MV               | Single      1989        Medium         8
Krasnodarsky 303MV          Single      1980        Medium         4
Krasnodarsky 362TV          Single      1984        Medium        11
Krasnodarsky 607TV          Double      1986        Medium         8
Suanfower
11.   Till recently, the Postovoit Oilseeds Development Institute at Krasnodar was a strong proponent
for open pollinated sunflower varieties. They developed excellent disease resistant germplasm but the seed
production aspects were neglected. Earlier, under FSU, scientists worked on hybrids at Odessa and
evolved some good hybrids which excel in yield levels. Now, scientists in Russia strongly believe that
a 40% increase in yield can be attained with the introduction of hybrid sunflower seeds partly because
of the heterosis and partly because of the reduction of losses facilitated by seed vigor, more uniform
growth and maturity. Recently, Cargill initiated a collaborative research program with Postovoit Institute
and has evolved two sunflower hybrids. Many companies are interested in the disease resistant
germplasm of the Postovoit Oilseeds Development Institute, and intend to sign research protocol



86 
Page 5 of 9
agreements. Some of the varieties released and yield by the varieties and latest hybrids are reported in
Annex Table 5.4
Annex Table 5.3: Corn Parent Seed Production/Processing Facilities In Russia
Processing Facilities                                Number          Installed Capacity (ton)
Chemozem Institute of Dokuchaev, Voronezh              1              500
Voronezh Crop Research Station OPX Voronezh            1              500
Povolshkaya OPX Volgograd                              1              600
Lukyanenko Seed Institute, Krasnodar.                  1              500
Kuban Crop Research Station, Krasnodar                 1             1000
Donski Experiment Station, Rostov                      1              250
Crop Experiment Station, OPX, Adegia                   1              500
Com Selection Institute, KabardinoBalkar               2             1000
Elit-Povolskaya Institute, NPO, Saratov                1              500
Crop selection Center, Stavropol                       1             1000
Crop research Station, OPX, North-Ossetia              1              50
GiIaalvska=a3gsearch Station NPO1Chechen               1              5g0
Total Parent seed Processing facilities              13            7250
Annex Table 5.4: Populrly Grown Sunflower Varieties/ Hybrids in Russia
Names                Year of     Yield        Oil         Area Recommended and the
release    (Tons/ha)    content    Oblasts where popularly grown
I _  _  _  _   _ _ _   _  _  _                 (% )_          _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _
Peredovik                 1966         2.75        51.5  Central Chemozem, Caucasus
lmprovedperedovik         1970         3.53        53.1  Central Chemozem, Caucasus
Armavir                   1967         2.81        52.1  Krasnodar, rayons bordering Ukraine
Improved peredovik        1986         3.52        53.6  Krasnodar, rayons bordering Ukraine
VNIMIK 6540               1970         2.78        51.3  Krasnodar, rayons bordering Ukraine
Improved 6540             1986         3.62        53.5  Krasnodar, rayons bordering Ukraine
VNIMIK 8883               1971         2.64        51.2  North Caucasus,Volga valley
Improved 8883             1986         3.21        52.1  North Caucasus,Volga valley
Pochin Hybrid             1988         3.75        54.2  Caucasus, Belgorod, Volgograd, etc
Yugo-vostocni             1970         1.86        50.5  Saratov (short 85 days duration)
Hybrid PG-34              1986         2.75        51.2  Saratov (short 85 days duration)
Salute                    1977         2.46        51.5  Stavropol, Altal kray
Nadeshda                  1970         2.55        50.5  Belgorod Rostov



87                                    AN 5
Page 6 of 9
12.   The main problems have been the widening gap between research and its applzation, inefficient
management at production level, an isolation of scientists from advances made in rest of the world,
especially since mid seventies. Non-scientific personnel administer the production, processing, allocation
and distribution channels. importance is given to meeting specific targets for prox.lction without any
regard for technical standards, resource limitations and economic efficiency. Recent deterioration in the
economy has further worsened the situation and distanced professionals from addressing problems of
production and quality standards. Budget problems and lack of foreign exchange have severely curtailed
linkage with applied research activities.
PROJECr FEATURES
13.   The ARIS Seed Industry Development Component is designed to: (i) provide sub-loans for
establishing pilot seed enterprises for corn and sunflower seeds to demonstrate the commercial viability
of seed industry organized in the private sector; and (ii) help establish an enabling policy environment
and institutional framework for the development of competitive seed industry in the private sector. The
institutional and the policy framework aspects of the project will cover the entire country. Investments
in the seed inspection, varietal testing strengthening activity would be concentrated in the oblasts/rayons
where investment sub-projects would be implemented. The project would be confined to area where
mean annual sum of diurnal temperature is above 2800° C° during crop growth (MDT > 100 C@), in the
re,ions having comparative advantage, and where the enterprises are more active in privatization.
Investment in Seed Enterprises
14.   The project will provide loans to seed enterprises to build new seed processing facilities and
establish vertically integrated, independently operated seed companies that are market and profit oriented.
The new facilities will include technological improvements. New management structures will be instituted
at the enterprise level to improve the overall technical and financial performance of the company. These
structures include private sector management, the development of marketing structures, the establishment
of appropriate business relations with foreign seed companies to acquire access to improved germplasm,
and initial steps to begin product development (variety testing and development).
15.   The proposed investment is expected to increase the production and availability of quality seeds.
This would lead to the rapid improvement in the germplasm, production, and processing of additional
capacity of 30,000 tons of hybrid corn and 4,000 tons sunflower hybrid seeds. The seed enterprises will
be selected according to agreed criteria with the MOAF. Out of the 27 seed enterprises indicating their
interest in being included in the project, 10 enterprises initiated feasibility studies and 17 others have
indicated their intention to do so (additional companies are likely to express their desire for being
included in the project). Most of these companies had requested the assistance of the Giproselkhozerno
(GSZ) Institute in Krasnodar for carrying out feasibility studies.
Enabling Peicy Environment
16.   Institutional changes would be a key feature of this project and the MOAF would systematically
withdraw from the active seed production and distribution. This activity will build up the capacity of the
MOAF to redefine and undertake its new role. Specific emphasis will include the development of a seed
law that improves the quality of seed in the marketplace; strengthening the execution of certification
activities: improving the varietal testing and registration program; supporting adoption of plant breeder's



88                                  ANNEX S
Page 7 of 9
rights protection; systematic disengagement from production, processing and marketing of seeds; the
promotion and support of new seed enterprises in the private sector; and assistance to establish an active
national seed association of private seed entrepreneurs. Broadly, following items would be financed
under the project:
0     Strengthening of varietal testing commission (Gossortkomissia), strengthening 24 farm
trial centers, equipping them with modem precision farm machineries to enhance theit
testing efficiencies. Training would expose members of the organization to other
methods of variety testing and registration as well as enforcement of Plant Bre2deis
Rights (PBR).
0     Strengthening of sted inspection and certification system (Goseminspektsia), establishing
two central training -cum-testing centers (one at Moscow and the other at Krasnodar);
strengthening the 210 seed testing labs to enhance their efficiencies. Training would
expose mnembers of the organization to irternational methods and standards of seed
inspection and seed and variety certification. Training would also include enforcement
of Plant Breeders Rights (PBR) by members of UPOV (the international organization
assuming the leading role in PBR) and equipment training (i.e. electrophoresis). The
goal for this project would be to raise seed standards of corn and sunflower in Russia to
OECD (recognized international) levels.
O     Establishment of National Seed Advisory Council (NSAC): To provide an integrated and
rational process for defining the future role of the MOAF in the development of a
competitive seed industry based on independent, sustainable seed enterprises, it is
proposed that an advisory committee be established for the duration of the five year
project perfod. This committee will consist both of government and non-government
persons which will identify options from successful seed industry models from other
couinries and propose a national seed policy for Russia; will set goals for the orderly
transition to the MOAF new role and ensure a competitive seed industry environment
during this transition period;  will also advise on legislation and accompanying
regulations related to the implementation of the national seed policy; and meet regularly
to monitor, assess and advise the government as to how to speed up implementation of
seed industry development component of this project.
e      Formation of National Seed Association (NSA):  A non-governmental democratic
organization and MOAF will assist in its formation. NSA's members will consist of
independent seed enterprises of all sizes, seed growers, traders, corporations in Russia
involved with the production , processing, or sale of seeds and interested in working
toward a productive and sustainable agricultural environment. The NSA would represent
seed indu=rv concerns to the government. It would also keep members informed of
legislation applicable to the seed trade and the requirements of pertinent laws. The NSA
would consider and endeavor to solve problems of the seed trade. NSA would itnteract
with international seed organizations such as the Federation Internationale du Commerce
des Semences (FIS) and other national seed organizations.
17.   The project would provide assistance in the creation of the NSA, helping key people explore
successul models that exist in other countries, develop a mission statement, a prelimir.ry constitution



89                                  ANNE S
Page 8 of 9
and preliminary by-laws, and develop a campaign to attract new members. During the initial project
period, the NSA may organize educational training seminars on subjects new to Russia such as
entrepreneurship, sales, marketing, accounting procedures, dealins with bankers, dealing with the
intermational seed trade, and other topics which the membership would find useful. Linkages between
various agencies, committees, associations and departments at the federal and oblast levels are presented
in the Amex Figure 5. 1.



Annex Figure 5. 1: Linkages Beten Various Agedes Conncewfh Implemetaton of the See Devlopmn
Component
DqMyWd
Cr RdopF                            RAAS
lhnk                ~~PID Seeds                                                     Reec |  nswes^I t1
Ts                   5 ~~GSSEMINSPEK!Pt i      ¢3               
~~~~~~ F 
I  I   ,   .    I    ..           .     I    .                                                         2
| ,<>|          8~~~~ead TrderC _n.um m
scwn              K les          Prkstb Fgrmg                                                      0



91                                        6
Page 1 of 1
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (AIRIS) PROJECr
CRITERIA FOR SELECTiON OF PARTICIPATING PRIVATE ENTERPRISES
1.    Criteria for selection of the participating private marketing and seed enterprises for the sub-loan
program are as follows:
(i)    The enterprises should have completed the privatization process (as per GKI guidelines).
(ii)    The enterprise management will be independent (not controlled by the govermnent),
vested with day-to-day decision-making authority, profit oriented, and accountable to the
Board of Directors.
(iii)   Enterprises mdst be in satisfactory financial condition (need audited financial statements
and balance sheets).
(iv)   The existing and potential profitability of an enterprise must be acceptable to the Bank.
(v)    Enterprises must agree to employ technically trained managers to manage new
investment.
(vi)   Enterprises must complete feasibility studies for the proposed sub-projects which are
acceptable to PDU, MOAF and the World Bank.
(vii)   The participating private enterprises must be in a position to contribute 15-35 percent of
the total cost of the sub-project and pay necessary duties and taxes, including VAT.
(viii)  The enterprise must sign a subsidiary loan agreement stipulating the terms of the loan,
procurement and repayment procedures, reporting and project monitoring, security
arrangements, accounting and financial covenants.
(ix)   The fruit and vegetable farms must adopt a production restructuring plan to improve
production and productivity to ensure financial viability of the proposed investment.
(x)    The seed enterprises must have experience in the seed sector and must meet
criteria for ownership, access to genetic resources, geographic location, and
financial audits.
2.    Additional eligibility criteria may be added during implementation as the Government and
the World Bank acquire more experience in on-lending to private enterprises.



92                                  ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 6
RUSSIAN 1FEDERATION
AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (AIS) ]PROJECT
TRAINING MODULE
JUSTIFICATION
1.    The success of the ARIS project depends on the timely availability of trained manpower to
undertake diverse activitiks envisaged in the project. Tht principle objective of training is to provide
relevant technical and managerial skills to a large number of personnel who would be responsible for tue
implementation of individual project components.
2.    The total training package of about US$14.2 million for the entire ARIS project spread over a
period of five years has been developed in consultation with the various component Working Groups in
the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and with the relevant agencies and enterprises. Th12- main
justification for training is that the project requires new types of skills and experience as many of the
project activities require new approaches, which are quite different from those being practiced at the
present time in Russia. The main emphasis of the training package, therefore, is to provide these
necessary practical skills in a variety of disciplines to those involved with the implementation of the
project, as well as to expected project beneficiaries. A large number of persons drawn from different
agencies, departnents, government institutions from the federal, oblast and rayon levels, private
enterprises and from different farm structures would benefit from this training.
3.    Given the broad range of activities being carried out by each of the project components, it
requires different types of training for persons with varying backgrounds at different locations and times
of project execution. Broadly, the project will support two types of training, viz., (i) in-country and (ii)
foreign. The duration of training ranges from short one to five day workshops to extended programs of
one month or even longer. This traimng module provides a brief description of the various types of
training programs that the ARIS project would support for each of the project components.
MAREE INFRASUCrURE DEVELOPENT  -
Mket Infonnaion System (M
4.    The objective of the MIS training is to develop the sldlls of the MOAF staff in modem methods
of market information collection, analysis, preparation and dissemination. MIS training will cover two
broad areas: (i) collection, processing and dissemination of market information and (ii) computer
hardware and applications development.



93                                  ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 6
5.    In-country Training: (i) Data processing methods: About 1200 MOAF staff from the oblast and
rayon levels will be trained over a three year period in data collection, interviewing techniques, data
processing and consolidation, grades and standards, preparation of information releases and computer
operations. In addition, manuals for MIS activities will be prepared. (ii) Technical Computer Training:
Since the ARIS computer system would be a complex system comprising 1500 nodes, in-country training
for about 100 computer specialists would be provided in three broad areas: system architects, UNIX
system design, Distributed Computing Environment, Object oriented application development. In addition,
specialized short term courses will be developed for computer systems analysts of the rayon and oblast
levels. These will focus on programming languages, network design, application upgrading and security
administration. (iii) Hands on Training Computer Workshops: Since majority of the data that would
flow through the ARIS network originates at the farm level, about 1000 short hands-on training
workshops at the end-user level will be conducted by MOAFCC. These will focus on overview of the
ARIS computer network, how it operates, overview of applications, how the MIS and FIAS information
is collected and disseminated, what is required to access the system and what benefits it can offer.
6.    Foreign Training: (i) International Experience: Ten higher and middle level staff would
undertake short tours to selected foreign countries to observe the operations of market information
systems. (ii) Computer Network design: The ARIS computer network system involves the use of the
latest hardware and software technology. This network will be used by the MIS and FIAS for providing
market and farmer information, respectively. Five senior officials engaged in the operations of the
computer network would be trained in selected foreign countries for about six months in various technical
and manag-,ment aspects of modem computer network design and operations. (iii) Software applications:
Officials engaged in the development of specialized software applications would be provided with specific
traming in specialized computer software languages and application oriented languages in selected foreign
countries. Ten individuals would be provided with this training.
Market Enterprise Development
7.    The training programs is designed to complement the activities being undertaken by the Market
Infrastructure Development component. This would involve the training of appropriate MOAF officials
at the federal and regional levels. Through this process, the concerned officials would be equipped with
thc necessary skills and exposure to carry out the intended activities of the project.
8.    In-country Training: This would consists of a number of short training programs for MOAF
officials, regional authorities, promoters of primary and wholesale markets, managers and functionaries
in market organizations. Over 2000 persons are expected to undergo this training. The subject areas
would be: institutional aspects of marketing, different types of market infrastructure, trading practices,
grades and standards and the role of wholesale markets in the distribution system for agricultural
products.
9.    Foreign Training: About 30 officials from federal and oblast level governments, marketing
organizations and training institutes will visit major marketing systems in selected countries in Europe
and North America.



94                                   ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 6
FARMER INFORMATION AND ADVISORY SERVICES
10.   The main objectives of training in the Farmer Information and Advisory Services Component are
two-fold: to enhance the knowledge and skills of a large number of FIAS staff and end-users in specific
skill areas; and to provide first hand exposure to various methods of farmer information development and
dissemination outside the Russian Federation.
Farmer Information Development
11.   In-Country Training: A variety of short training programs will be undertaken for about 350
FIAS staff from the federal, oblast and rayon levels. These training programs would focus on: (i)
information needs assessment, including new methods of information needs assessment such as critical
success factors method (CSF), spot surveys, feed-back mechanisms; (ii) information sourcing and message
development, message packaging for multi-media; (iii) quick data collection designs, data analysis, data
presentation; (iv) development and preparation of easy to understand and easy to use manuals for farm
management, business, technical packages, marketing; (v) development of computer databases and expert
systems for ongoing reference; and (vi) development of user friendly environmental, technical and legal
data base.
12.   Periodic two to three day workshops on agricultural information, marketing and business skills
development will be held at the rayon, oblast and federal levels. These will be specially designed for
about 6500 end-users during the five year project period representing a wide range of project
beneficiaries, from the emerging small independent farmer to large re-structured farir. and agri-business
enterprises. The training will be provided by foreign and local experts. Specialized training programs
would be developed for training of trainers.
13.   Foreign Training: The local training will be supplemented by specialized study tours of about
thmee to four weeks for about 200 senior and middle management Russian experts from the federal,
oblast, rayon offices and about 500 representatives of the various end-users to selected countries and
observe first hand the workings of: (i) agricultural extension systems and how they operate in different
countries, (ii) structure and planning of the extension system and its interaction with agricultural research,
(iii) information sources and role of the private sector; (iv) operations of the local farm level extension
offices, (v) basic farm management tools, farm accounts, farm budgets and cost analysis; (vi) provision
of technical advice for specific crops and livestock activities, and various technical subject matters, (vii)
organizations and operations of farmer organizations, producers associations and cooperatives, (viii)
provide hands-on experience of information flows and use in agro-business operations including those
providing farm inputs, storage and handling farm products, processing and farm credit.
Farmer Information Dissemination
14.   In-Country Training: Short training programs will be undertaken for about 300 personnel from
ARSRIIMA, AKKOR and the Video Center of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. These training
programs would focus on instructional design, modem production techniques for television, radio, print
and video productions, multimedia information dissemination techniques, cost benefit analysis of different
media selection, and interactive video techniques for different client groups. The training will be provided
by foreign and local experts. Specialized training programs would be developed for training of trainers.



95                                   ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 6
15.   Foreign Training: The local training will be supplemented by foreign training programs of about
three to four weeks in specialized information dissemination techniques for about S0 operational staff,
from AKKOR, ARSRIIMA and MOAF's Video Center. Special programs dealing with relevant
international farming and agro-industrial practices will also be produced by Russian teams for
dissemination through video, radio and television.
SEED INDUSRY DEVELoPMENT
16.   The objective of the training component is to provide: (i) the participating private seed enterprises
with the needed business and marketing skills to operate in a commercial environment, and (ii) expose
the key policy makers in the MOAF and NSAC members to regulatory aspects of seed industry as
practiced in market economies and improve the quality control, varietal testing and standard setting
functions of the operational field staff of Gossemispektsia and Gossortkomisia.
Private Seed Enterprises
17.   In-Country Training: Management of private seed enterprises: The training programs are aimed
at senior management and financial officers of the participating private sector. They will undergo in-
county courses and seminars in accounting, financial management, investment analysis, seed production
and seed processing. The officials in charge of finance and accounting would undertake two courses in
activity-based accounting, four training events in contract grower management and other technical topics,
and three seminars to cover strategic planning, project identification, project prioritization, the parameters
for feasibility studies, and the evaluation of feasibility documents. The training will be provided by the
long-term consultants working in the PDU. Counterpart staff and other experts will be trained through
on-the-job training, workshops, seminars and the step-by-step development of a project preparation
manual.
18.   Strategic Project Planning and Projer' Preparation: Workshops and Seminars on the subjects of
strategic planning, project identification, project prioritization, the parameters for feasibility studies, and
the evaluation of feasibility documents will be undertaken annually during the first 3 years of project
implementation. These workshops will include presentations on the activities of the seed investment sub-
component. Both government and private sector participants will be invited to the workshops. Foreign
companies interested in establishing operations in Russia will be strongly encouraged to participate.
Three foreign consultants will give presentations and coordinate the program activities, and will also
prepare a Project Preparation Manual. Inputs into the manual will come from the workshops, the training
modules for the counterpart staff, the seminars, and other relevant sources such as the MOAF, EBRD,
EU and other World Bank staff.
19.   Foreign Training: (i) Management of private seed enterprises: Senior management of the
participating seed enterprises will be trained in improving their management skills, preparation of
investment proposals and analysis. This will be achieved through study tours to selected foreign seed
enterprises, Secondary topics related to the operation of the contract grower program, as well as
processing and packaging, can be included where appropriate. The participants would visit three on-going
seed enterprises that will be selected to provide the maximum exposure to the issues involved.
(ii) Financial management and marketing aspects: The financial and marketing officials of the private seed
enterprises would visit on-going seed enterprises and study the management and marketing aspects of the
seed business.



96                                   ANNE% 7
Page 5 of 6
EnablHng Policy Enviromnent
20.   Specialized training will ve provided to four main institutions that are engaged in the
establishment of enabling policy and institutional environment for the development of a competitive seed
industry: the National Seed Advisory Committee, the National Seed Association, Gosseminspektsia (Seed
Inspection) and Gossortkomissia (Variety Registration).
Foreign Training:
21.   National Seed Advisory Committee (NSAC) : As the NSAC will be providing leadership for
defining the role of the MOAF in the development of a modem, competitive seed industry based on
independent, commercially viable seed enterprises, key officials will undertake a study tour of four
selected western countries. They will study seed industry models and the dynamic interrelation of seed
industry organizations: seed testing laboratories, seed inspection, variety certification, variety registration,
seed quarantine, non-governmental organizations, and govermnent organizations (at both the federal and
local levels). These visits would focus on the respective roles of the public and private sectors and
linkages among them. Members of the NSAC will study current models of seed industry organization
and government policy in other countries in order to assist in the evolution of a national seed policy. The
technical personnel will be provided with training to upgrade their skills to world standards in their fields
of specialization.
22.   National S2ed Association (NSA): Training would be provided to members of the NSA
patterned along Western lines of a seed trade association representing the concerns of individual seed
companies to the Government. This will involve visits to corporations involved with the production
(multiplication), processing, or sale of seeds, and interested in working toward a productive and
sustainable agricultural enviromnent, .o international seed organizations such as the Federation
International du commerce des Semences (FIS), and other national seed organizations will be organized
for NAS staff. Foreign training consultants with expertise in areas of interest to th. membership of the
NSA would give seminars and workshops at the national and regional conferences.
23.   Gossortkomisia: Seed Varietal Testing Agency: Staff of Gossortkomissia will undergo
specialized visits to selected countries to study the execution of certification programs. This will be
followed by series of in-country training to the field staff engaged in the varietal testing activities, quality
control seed testing laboratories at oblast, rayon and republic levels, and seed law enforcement staff in
seed inspectorate.
24.   Gosseminspektsia - Seed Inspecdon Directorate: Four Rusmian experts from Gosseminspektsia,
which is responsible for the certification of seed quality and vanutal purity, will visit at least three
selected countries with differing seed policies and organizational structures for about a month in each
country. These experts will act as trainers and assist in restructuring Gosseminspektsia.
25.   The purpose of the international study tour is to study seed quality control systems (i.e. legal and
technical norms), and methods and procedures of enforcement of the seed laws which have been
established in seed industries of successful western .ountries with differing systems. Training for ten
Russian specialists (who will be resource persons to train the local staff as trainers) will be provided for
about a month in a selected foreign country to study laboratory techniques and methods for enforcement



97                                   ANNeX 7
Page 6 of 6
of the seed law, with special emphasis on enforcement of varietal purity ana plant breeders' rights. These
participants will also act as trainers.
Lu-Country Training:
26.   Periodic in country training will be organized at the oblast level for the field staff involved in the
seed ihspections, seed testing, varietal testing, seed law and quality control law implementation and
enforcement in the market place. Each training session under the sced inspection will have about 30
Russian participants under training for 5 days in Krasnodar and other oblasts on a periodic basis for the
project period.   Simnilar training programs will be organized for the staff of the varietal testing
commission. The trainers would be the trained local experts working along with 3 foreign experts.
These foreign consultants will be experts in their respective fields dealing with varietal purity control and
certification systems, seed quality control and certification systems and plant breeders' rights enforcement
systems. The local crop research institutions and universities will be actively involved in the in-country
training programs.
PROJECr DEVELOPMET UNrf
27.   The objective of the training program for the Project Development Unit is to develop the needed
skills in the Russian Staff working in the Unit in a variety of areas necessary for the implementation of
the ARIS project.
28.   hi-country Training: The in-country training will focus on (i) Bank procurement regulations
and procedures; (ii) accounting and disbursement procedures; (iii) project implementation and
management techniques; (iv) reporting procedures on financial/accounting and physical indicators. The
skills to be provided under the training in the PDU would improve the implementation aspects of the
project, improve the transparency and reliability of physical, management and financial data. These
training programs would be provided by the staff of the PDU, supplemented by foreign experts.
29.   Foreign Training: Selected senior and middle level staff from the PDU will participate in
various foreign workshops, training courses including those arranged by the Economic Development
Institute (EDI), stuciy tours. The topics to be covered would be procurement, accounting, project
preparation, appraisal, implementation and management techniques.



98                                      _
Page I of 21
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (ARIS) PROJECT
Technical Assistance Module
JUSTIFICAION
1.    The objectives of technical assistance for the ARIS project are to provide specialized assistance
in a variety of specific skill areas needed for the speedy implementation of project zomponents and sub-
components. The total technical assistance package of US$10.4 million for the ARIS project spread over
five years has been developed in close consultation with the various component Working Groups in the
Ministry of Agriculture and Food and with the relevant regional administrations. The main emphasis of
the overall package is to provide the most critically needed skills and expertise in selected areas which
are presently unavailable in the participating institutions in the Russian Federation and, where possible,
transfer these skills to Russian counterparts assigned to work with the foreign experts.
DELivEY OF TECHICAL AssISANcE
2.    Given the diverse set of activities requiring different expertise over both time and space in the
ARIS project, the delivery of the technical assistance package will be carried out in three ways: (i) long-
term individual services from one to three years; (ii) short-term individual or firm services for six months
or less to be provided at critical time intervals; and (iii) task oriented services requiring multi-disciplinary
teams. Provision of technical assistance services would be subject to World Bank review and clearance.
The resource requirements, phasing and skill areas are provided in the Annex Table 8.1. The indicative
TORs, which are subject to modifications during the implementation of the project, are provided below
for each component of the ARIS project. All TORs will require a prior review by the Bankl and be
supplemented by implementation review during the supervision missions. All the reports prepared by
the technical assistance staff will be jointly reviewed by the PDU and the World Bank.
TORs FOR MARKEr INnwsArRucruRE DEVELOPMENT
3.    The technical assistance in this component has been designed to provide specific skills to the
MOAF for the implementation of: (1) market information system and (2) development of marketing
enterprises.
(1)   Market Information System (MIS)
)       stcal Specialist
Locadon of Assignment: Moscow with visits to p)articipating oblasts/cities
Duraton of the assgnment: October 1994 to March 1995



99                                          I
Page 2 of 21
Time of Initiation of Assigoment: August 1994
Repordug to: PDU/CIU, Moscow
Scope of Work
(a)    Define optimum sample of data collection points (private, collective and state Wars),
agro-processing enterprises and wholesale and retail markets; and commodities;
(b)    Establish methodologies of data collection, forecasting and interview techniques;
(c)    Prepare instruction manuals for field staff; and
(d)    Carry out analysis of market information and determine trends.
Qualifications
Experience in carrying out agricultural market surveys and forecasting trends with exposure or
work in former FSU countries or East European countries and advanced degree in applied
statistics with special reference to agricultL e market information.
(i)   Information Technology Speaist
Location of Assigmnent: Moscow with visits to participating oblasts/cities
Duration of the assignment: October-November 1994
Time of Initiation of Assigmnent: August 1994
Reporting to: PDU/CIU
Scope of Work
(a)    Identify suitable dissemination mchanisms for market information; and
(b)    Prepare guidelines for newspaper publications, radio programs and market reports.
Quaicatons
Experience in preparing market reports through a variety of media outlets with exposure or work
in former FSU countries or East European countries and advanced degree in mass media
communications related to dissemination of agricultural market information.
(Ill)   Grading and Standardization Spedalist
Locadon of Assignment: Moscow with visits to participating oblasts/cities



100                                 Ak=  3
Page 3 of 21
Duation of the assignment: October-Decei.'v.r 1994
Time of Initiation of Assignment: August 1994
Reportng to: PDU/CIU, Moscow
Scope of Work
(a)    review existing grading and standardization procedures in the Russian Federation to
improve collection and reporting of market infonration with reference to established
grades; and
(b)    recommend improvements in grading and standardization of agricultural commodities;
Quaficatons
Experience in grading and standardization of a variety of agricultural commodities with exposure
or work in fonner FSU countries or East European countries and advanced degree in agricultural
economics with specialization in product grading and quality control.
(iv)   Computer Network Speciast
Locaion of Assignment: Moscow with visits to participating oblasts/cities
Duration of the assg_nent: October 1994 to February 1995
Time of Initiation of Assignment: August 1994
Reportin to: PDU/CIU, Moscow
Scope of Work
Develop a plan for the integration of the host computer center at MOAFCC with the various
oblast, rayon centers for the MIS/PIAS components
Qualiiatons
Experience in the design, installation and management of a large computer network covering over
1500 nodes, advanced degree in computer network systems and knowledge of RISC techology
using UNIX operating systems.
(v)    Computer Software Spedast
Location of Assgnment: Moscow with visits to participating oblasts/cities
Duration of the assignment: October 1994 to February 1995



101                                  ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 21
Time of Initiation of Assignment: August 1994
Reporting to: PDU/CIU, Moscow
Scope of Work
(a)    develop and implement suitable software packages for the operating systems at the
federal, oblast and rayon levels;
(b)    assist in the selection of appropriate "off the shelf' softwares and develop various special
software applications needed for the MIS/FlAS components; and
(c)    create applications using 00 programming tools.
Qualifications
Expenence in (a) the design and implementation of UNIX based systems; and (b) experience in
the development and implemen.ation of application software, with special reference to agriculture;
advanced degree in computer science; and extensive knowledge of Object Oriented programming
tools, SNAP, C+ + languages and UNIX operating systems
(2)    Market Enterprise Development
This technical assistance package will consist of five tasks to be carried out by multi-disciplinary
teams with inputs provided by the Bank during project implementation.
(i)    Task One: Regional assessment in marketing of grains, livestock, livestock products, fruits and
Vegetables.
Location of Assignment: Selected oblasts
Duration of the assignment: September 1994 to August 1995
Time of Initiation of Assigmnent: June 1994
Reporting to: PDU/CIU, Moscow
Scope of Work
(a)    undertake a comprehensive assessment of the current status of the marketing of fruits and
vegetables, grains and livestock products;
(b)   identify policy, institutional and infrastructural constraints;
(c)    prepare action plans for future reforms and development; and



102                                  ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 21
(d)    review marketing functions of various institutions still remaining in the public sector and
make recommendations on their future role in the context of emerging market economy.
Responsibility
Multi-disciplinary teams consisting of foreign specialists in marketing of grains, livestock and
related products, and fruits and vegetables, and agricultural marketing policy; and local experts.
(ii)   Task Two: Primary and Wholesale Market Development
Location of Assignment: Seven economic regions in the Russian Federation
Duration of the assignment
(a)    Phase 1: September 1994 to July 1995
(b)    Phase 2: July 1995 to May 1997
Time of Initiation of Assignment: June 1994
Reportng to: PDU/CIU, Moscow
Scope of Work
(a) Phase 1:  (i) review of current laws, rules and regulations at the federal and oblast level
concerning the establishment and management of primary and wholesale markets
and MOAF's concept paper on formation of organized markets in the agro-
industrial sector;
(ii) assess the adequacy of these regulations for a competitive development of
primary and wholesale markets;
(iii) develop institutional arrangements for market organization and management
using oblast and MOAF guidelines; and
(iv) assist MOAF to determine the potential for development of such markets in
twenty selected oblasts
(b) Phase 2:  (i) review proposals for market development in 20 oblasts and select 10 proposals
based on agreed criteria;
(ii) carry out ten techno-economic feasibility studies of selected critical
investments; and
(ii) develop packages appropriate for financing such investments fxom dAomestic
and international resources.



103                                  ANNEx 8
Page 6 of 21
Responsibility
Multi-disciplinary teams consisting of specialists in organization of primary agricultural markets,
economists, financial analysts and appropriate technical experts as needed; and local experts.
(fii)   Task three: Review of legal, institutional, operational, management, and governance issues
concerning the development of commodity exchanges
Location of Assignment: Moscow
Duration of the assigmnent: September 1994 to December 1995
Time of Initiation of Assignment: August 1994
Reportng to: PDU/CIU, Moscow
Scope of Work
(a)    review the current legal framework and on-going activities in the area of agricultural
commodity trading;
(b)    develop an action plan to promote the development of commodity exchanges at the
national and iegional levels with the objective of gradually introducing forward and
futures markets in key agricultural commodities and inputs;
(c)    recommend measures to be incorporated in the design of commodity exchanges for
reducing price uncertainty; and
(d)    make recommendations with respect to: legal framework; structure and ownership;
governance and approval procedures for exchange seat ownership/membership,
capitalization requirements; accountability of management and staff; margin
requirements; financial management and audit procedures; information systems and the
role of the government as a regulatory mechanism.
Responsibility
Multi-disciplinary teams consisting of specialists in agricuitural commodity trading, regulatory
aspects, information technology specialists and other technical experts as needed; and local
experts.
(iv)   Task Four. Review existing procedures and practices for product grading, standardization and
quality control
Location of Assgment: Moscow
Duration of the assgment: September 1994 to April 1995



104                                  ANNX 8
Page 7 of 21
Time of Initiation of Assignment: August 1994
Reporting to: PDU/CIU, Moscow
Scope of Work
(a)    review existing legal and institutional framework; identify gaps; recommend new
legislation and institutions to effectively serve the objectives of helping consumers select
the kind and quality of products they want to buy; ensuring that producers and market
operators receive their fair share in product prices, in a competitive environment;
(b)    assess the role of MOAF and GOSSTANDARD  in the areas of grading and
standardization;
(c)    reconmmend strengthening of current processes to establish grades and standards for key
commodities that are consistent with international practices;
(d)    explore the adequacy of existing legal and institutional framework to ensure fair trading
practices in the marketing of perishable agricultural commodities;
(e)    recommend appropriate laws that will prohibit unfair practices, and provide a means of
enforcing contracts in domestic and foreign trade; and
(f)    recommend a time bound action plan for the government to introduce necessary
legislation and institutional arrangements.
Responsibility
Multi-disciplinary teams consisting of specialists in marketing, grading and stndarditon of
agricultural products; legal specialists and other technical experts as needed; and local experts.
(v)    Task five: MOA's Role in Market Development and Marketing Services.
Location of Assignment: Moscow
Duration of the assignment: September 1994 to January 1995
Time of Initiation of Assigment: August 1994
Reporting to: PDU/CIU, Moscow
Scope of Work
(a)    assist MOAF in defining its Agricultural Marketing Services (AMS) based on experience
of other countries; and



105                                  ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 21
(b)    assess the legal basis of AMS activities in selected other countries, and explore how these
services could be irtroduced, rationalized and expanded in the Russian Pederation.
Responsibility
Multi-disciplinary teams consisting of specialists in agricultural marketing services and other
technical experts as needed; and local experts.
TORs FOR FARMR INFORMATION AND ADvSORY SERviES
4.    The technical assistance package would focus on the provision of sldlls in five areas: (i)
agricultural information development; (ii) agricultural information dissemination; (iii) agricultural
extension management; (iv) training and (v) international contractuai arrangements for copyright
materials.
(I)    Agricultural Information Development
Location of Assinment: Moscow with visits to various participating oblasts and rayons
Duration of the assignment: Periodic short visits between September 1994 and May 1998
Time of Initiation of Assignment: August 1994
Reporting to : PDU and CIU, Moscow
Scope of Work
(a)    introduce modem methods of information needs assessment for different agricultural
client groups and implement these in the pilot FIAS centers;
(b)    review and assess existing information packages on a variety of agriculwxal topics
prepared by domestic and foreign agencies; and
(c)    assist the MOAF in the modification of existing and/or preparation of new easy to
understand information packages and manuals designed to address priority needs on
business, agricultural economics, marketing, accounting, agronomic practices,
agricultural reform initiatives, environmental and legal aspects.
Responsibit
Multi-disciplinary team consisting of specialists in business, economics, marketing, accounting,
agriculture technologies, environment, legal and appropriate technical experts as needed; and local
experts.



106                                  ANNEX
Page 9 of 21
(Hi)   Agricultural Information Dissination
Location of Assignment: Moscow with visits to various participating oblasts and rayons
Duration of the assignment: Periodic short visits between September 1994 and May 1998
Time of Initiation of Assignment: August 1994
Reportng to: PDU and CIU, Moscow
Scope of Work
(a)    develop and implement methods to improve the dissemination of a variety of information
packages through television, video, radio, print and computer network;
(b)    develop guidelines for assessing the cost-effectiveness of using different dissemination
mechanisms;
(c)    assist in the preparation of user friendly messages for various media; and
(d) introduce modern techniques of information dissemination for different client groups.
Repusibpilt
Multi-disciplinary team consisting of specialists in the dissemination mechanisms, including
television, video, radio, print and computer network; and local experts.
(lii)   Agricultural extension managemnt spedalist
Locaton of Asignment: Moscow with visits to participating oblasts and rayons
Duration of the assment: September 1994 to July 1995
Time of Initation of Assgment: August 1994
Reporting to: PDU and CIU, Moscow
Scope of Work
(a)    assess the links between agricultural research, education and extension at the federal level
and in participating Oblasts;
(b)    introduce modern methods of extension practices based on the experience from other
countries and assess the role the private sector can play; and
(c)    recommend measures to strengthen linkages between research, education and extension.



107                                  ANNEX 8
Page 10 of 21
Qulfcations
Experience in agricultural extension and management practices with exposure or work in former
FSU countries or East european countries, preferably both in the public and private sectors;
advanced degree in agricultural extension.
(iv)   Trainn Specal
LocaDon of Assignment: Moscow with visits to various oblasts
Durton of the asslgmnent: September 1994 to May 1995
Time of Iniation of Assignment: August 1994
Reporting to: PDU and CIU, Moscow
Scope of 7' Iork
(a)    review various types of trainmg programs offered for the emerging farm organizations
by the government, universities, research insdtutes and the private sector;
(b)    make recommendations for improvement of existing structure of delivery of training and
assist in their implementation in pilot FIAS centers;
(c)    develop guidelines for assessing the cost-effectiveness of different training methods; and
(d)    develop a detailed training program for FIAS staff at the federal, oblast and rayon levels.
Internional experience in trainin of agriculural personnel preferably with exosure of former
FSU countries or East european countries; familiarity with modem training tools and advanced
degree in education.
(v)   Internationl copyright legal specialist
Location of Assgnment: Moscow
Duration of the Assignment: January 1995 to June 1995
Tme of Intaton of Assignment: September 1994
Reportng to: PDU and CIU, Moscow



108                                  ANNEX 8
Page 11 of 21
Scope of Work
(a)    review existing laws of intellectual copyrights as it affects the FIAS/MIS activities;
(b)    examine compliance with internatioral norms of copyright protection;
(c)    review licensing procedures for the copying, translating and distributing of computer,
printed, audio and video materials; and
(d)    make recommendations for ensuring compliance of international copyrights associated
with the information materials to be provided by FIAS/MIS components.
Qualifications
Extensive experience in international copyright laws relating to multi-media information materials
including print, computer software, television programs and video recordings; familiarity with
copyright laws in the former FSU countries; and advanced degree in international law with
special emphasis on copyrights.
TORS FOR SEED INDUSTRY DEVELOPMNT COMPONENT
(I) Investment Coundcilor
Scope of Work
(a)    advise participating private seed enterprises (PPSEs) about the requirements to apply for
a loan, including steps to be taken to prepare a bankable document;
(b)    provide assistance to PPSEs to prepare the feasibility study document, with specific
reference to the financial aspects; and review the feasibility reports prepared by the local
consultants;
(c)    monitor the business development and profitability of all investments made under the
project;
(d)    organize training of counterparts;
(e)    prepare progress reports, technical reports, and coordinate the preparation of a project
development manual;
(t)    assist in the establishment joint ventures; and
(g)    supervise short-term technical assistance related to cost accounting activities.
Location of Assignment: PDU and CIU, Moscow



109                                  ANNEX 8
Page 12 of 21
Duraton of Assignment: 152 weeks (approximately)
Time of Initiation: September 1994.
Reporting to: PDU
Quaifications
Financial and management expert; adequate training and/or experience in agri-business and the
analyses required to make sound investment decisions for agricultural enterprises; a thorough
knowledge and experience in the development of pre-feasibility and feasibility studies for
prospective enterprises; experience with the operations of a seed enterprise; knowledge of seed
technology and agronomy; familiarity with the agri-business and seed sectors in Russia.
(i)    Seed Techmology Speciaist
Scope of Work
Responsible for technical and procurement activities related to the establishment and operations
of a new seed enterprise; work jointly with investment councilor and Russian counterpart
specially with the Gossortkomissia and Gosseminspektsia organizing their training, study tours,
procurement of lab and field equipments.
(a)    organize the implementation of the policy and environment aspect of the project;
(b)    assist seed enterprises to develop new products by introducing new hybrids;
(c)    advise prospective seed enterprises concerning the training and management of contract
seed growers, methods of improving the quality of seeds at the field;
(d)    assist seed enterprises to design new seed processing plants;
(e)    help to select appropriate seed variety and their production;
(t)    develop and evaluate procurement documents for seed processing equipment;
(g)    provide assistance to prospective clients to prepare the feasibility document, with specific
reference to the technical aspects;
(h)    undertake studies to define the current situation in the seed sector and market
opporunities;
(i)    train counterparts, seed growers, and organize seminars for growers and consumers
involving seed breeders to solve the field problems in production;
(0)    prepare progress reports, technical reports and training materials; and



110                                 AN t 8
Page 13 of 21
(k)    supervise short-term technical assistance for training related to the seed study tour and
technical subjects.
Location of Assignment: PDU, Moscow
Duration of Assigmnent: 72 Staff weeks.
Time of Iniidation: August 1994
Reportig to: PDU and CIU, Moscow
Technical Qualifications
Trained as a seed technologist, experience in crop improvement, seed processing plant design and
management, seed technology, and agronomy, should be familiar with the seed sector in Russia,
and able to develop and eupport private sector seed enterprises.
(ii) Training coordinator
Location of Assignment: PDU, Moscow
Duration of Assignment: 1 month in 1995 and 1 month in 1996
ime of Initlation: September 1994
Reporting to: PDU and CIU, Moscow
Techica Qulfcations
Seed technologist, familiar with the international seed trade and orgamizations, working
experience in international seed organization, and experienced in organizing international trainmg
programs and study tours.
Scope of Work
Organize training programn and study tours; orgaize semnars; accompany the group (if need be);
and edit tour report and recommendations.
(Iv)   Technical Coordinator
Project Component: Seed Investment
Location of Assigment: PDU, Moscow
Duraion of Assignment: one month each in 1995, 1996 and 1997
Thme of Intiation: September 1994



lll1ANNEX a
Page 14 of 21
Reporting to: PDU and CIU, Moscow
Techmical Qualifications
Seed technologist, having mininmm ten years experience in training courses in practical seed
production, processing, and marketing.
Scope of Work
Prepare course outline and lecture notes; prepare visual aids for class, organize site and hands-on
training as appropriate; translate course outline, lecture notes, and visual aids into Russian;
evaluate and report effectiveness of the course.
(v)    Contract Grower Managemen Traiig  Coordinator
Loatioon of Assignment: PDU, Moscow
Duraton of Assigment: 3 weeks per year for 3 years
Time of Initiatdon: July 1995
Reporting to: PDU and CIU, Moscow
Techndcal Q    tions
Seed production technologist, familiar with corn and sunflower seed production; must have been
fimiliar in training farmers and farm managers.
Scope of Work
Organize training program in seed production (particularly conta growers); and provide course
materials to farm managers, the seed unit managers and their contract growers, specifically the
organizational functions.
(vi)   Semliar Coordinator and Trainers
Lon of Assgnment: PDU, Moscow
Duration of Assignment: 3 weeks per year for 3 years
Time of nldtation: August, 1994
Reporting to: PDU and CIU, Moscow



112                                  ANNEX 8
Page 15 of 21
Technical Qualiications
Seed technologist, eir,erienced in organizing international and national seminars in seed industry
development.
Scope of Work
Organize national seminars, prepare papers for the seminars for the Russian seed technologists,
farm managers, private seed unit managers and seed growers on the seed law, seed quality
control at the production, processing, and marketing, national seed development programs and
role of private seed growers.
(2)    Policy and Insitutional Development Program:
National Seed Advisory Committee
(vii)  Study tour and advisory committee orgaizer
Scope of Work
Short-term foreign consultant will assist the MOAF with organizing and coordinating the National
Seed Advisory Committee (NSAC) with a defined function role. In addition, the consultant winl
assist in
(a)    defining a national seed policy;
(b)    updating the seed law and/or enforcement reguations; and
(c)    defining the role of the MOAF in the new market economy.
Reporting to: PDU and CIU, Moscow
Duration of Asslgmnent: about 10 trips to Russia (each for 1 month) over a period of 3 years.
National Seed Association
(viii)  Seed Assoation Organizer
The consultant will be responsible for assisting the Seed Association (NSA) during its early stages
of development. This expert should have a thorough knowledge of and experience with seed
trade associations, both national and international. The expert should be familiar with agri-
business and seed sectors in Russia. In addition, the foreign consultant will assist NSA.
(a)    to organize itself using successful organizational models from other countries;
(b)    in developing goals, mission statements, preliminary constitution and by-laws;



113                                  ANNEX A
Page 16 of 21
(c)    develop a plan to attract new members;
(d)    create international links with other national seed organizations;
(e)    organize conferences, both regional and national;
(f)    arrange international speakers for training seminars;
(h)    seek representation on government committees; and
(i)    evaluate and pursue ideas for funding the activities of NSA.
Reporing to: PDU and CIU, Moscow
Duration of Assignment: eight one month visits over 3 year period.
Gosseninspektsia - Seed Inspection Directorate
(lx)   Seed Inspection expert
The short-term consultant(s) will assist Gosseminspektsia with identifying its organizational needs,
with developing and implementing foreign training programs and preparing specifications for
equipment tenders.
Location of Assignment: PDU/CIU, Moscow
Duration of Assigmnent: 3 weeks each year for 3 years from September 1994.
Time of Initiation: September, 1994
Reportng to: PDU and CIU, Moscow
Qualifications
Seed technologist, experienced in organizing seed testing, seed certification and international
standards in seed certification.
Scope of Work
The expert would have knowledge of and experience with seed inspection organizations
(preferably both national and international), and international standards of certification (both
OECD and ISTA). A knowledge of agri-business and the seed sector in Russia would be
advantageous. The Seed Implementation Officer in CIU in consultation with Gosseminspektsia
will identify the organizations requirements and arrange for the assistance of an appropriate
foreign consultant.



114                                  ANN
Page 17 of 21
Gossortkomissia - Variety Registration Commission
(x) Crop Varietal Testiongs Expert
The short-term consultant(s) will assist Gossortkomissia with identifying its organizational needs
(i.e. communications, client identification and reporting expectations), with enforcement of plant
breeders' rights legislation, and with preparing specifications for equipment tenders.
Location of Assignment: PDU/CIU, Moscow
Duration of Assignment: 3 weeks a year for 3 years from January 1995.
Time of Inidation: November 1994
Reporfting to: PDU and CIU, Moscow
Q)ualfatons
Seed technologist, experienced in organizing seed testing, seed certification and international
standards in seed certification.The expert(s) will have experience in variety testing and
registration, preferably both in the public and private sectors; should have a broad knowledge and
understanding of UPOV and the international seed trade industry; and be familiar with the agri-
business and seed sectors of Russia.
Scope of Work
Coordinate identified segments of the assigment by calling upon his/her contacts in the
international seed community such as UPOV .ISTA.
TORs FOR PRoJECk DEvEOPMENT UNIT
(i)    Project Management Specialist
Location of Assignment: PDU, MOAP, Moscow
Duration of Assignment: 2 years
Tine of Initiation of Assignment: September 1994
Reporting to: PDU, Moscow
Scope of Works
(a)    advise and be the counterpart to the Director of the PDU;
(b)    actively participate in the co-ordination of PDU's work repordng, monitoring and
evaluation, and appraisal of sub-projects of AR[S project;



115                                  ANNEX 8
Page 18 of 21
(c)    assist the director in organizing and carrying out the activities of the project
implementation; and
(d)    undertake analysis of agricultural sub-sector and feasibility studies for private sector
investments in agriculture.
Qualifications
(a)    have a minimum of 15 years of experience including direct responsibility for managing
implementation of large multi-million dollar complex agricultural development projects,
preferably in East European countries;
(b)    led or supervised project implementation of similar projects financed by multi-lateral aid
agencies or bilateral agencies; and
(c)    advanced degree in agriculture economics or management with special emphasis in
agriculture related enterprises.
(ii)   Procurement Specaist
Location of Assigment: PDU, Moscow
Duration of Assignment: 18 months
Tine of lnitiation of Assigment: August 1994
Reporting to: PDU, Moscow
Scope of Work
(a)    review procurement documents for the various goods and services required for the
implementation of ARIS project; and
(b)    train local staff in the procurement requirements of the World Bank.
Qualfication
Extensive experience in all stages of procurement and knowledge of Bank's procurement methods
and regulations.
(ill)   Senior Accounting Spealist
Location of Assignment: PDU, Moscow
Duration of Assgnment: 2 years



116                                  ANNEX-8
Page 19 of 21
Time of Initiation of Assignment August1994
Reporting to: PDU, Moscow
Scope of Work
(a)    prepare and implement financial and accounting procedures consistent with World Bank
requirements;
(b)    design, develop and implement internal controls, accounting and reporting arrangements
required for the implementation of ARIS project;
(c)    train Russian counterparts in all aspects of financial and accounting procedures with a
view of handing over all functions to the Russian counterpart at the end of the term; and
(d)    be responsible for the administrative management of the Special Account and
disbursement process for all agencies and institutions participating in the project.
Qulinatos
(a)    qualified and experienced in international financial and accounting practices;
(b)    minimum of 15 years of experience in managing and implementing of multi-million
dollar projects;
(c)    familiarity with financial and accounting practices of the Russian Federation and/or East
European countries;
(d)    experience in managing implementation of complex agricultural development projects,
preferably in East European countries;
(e)    must have led or supervised project implementation of similar projects financed by multi-
lateral aid agencies or bilateral agencies; and
(f)    undertaken financial analysis of agricultural sub-sector and feasibility studies for private
sector investments in agriculture; and
(g)    advanced degree in accounting.
(iv) Project Preparaion Specialist
Location of Assignment: PDU, Moscow
Duraton of Assignment: 2 years
Tine of Initiation of Assignment: August 1994



117                                      ANNEX 8
Page 20 of 21
Reporing to: PDU, Moscow
Scope of Work
(a)    will be advisor to the Director of PPD of PDU;
(b)    identify suitable agricultural projects and prepare guidelines for their preparation;
(c)    co-ordinate with other multi-lateral and bilateral agencies in project preparation;
(d)    develop guidelines for prioritization of agricultural projects assist in the organization of
preparation of agricultural projects; and
(e)    train Russian counterparts in all aspects of project preparation activities with a view of
handing over all these functions at the end of the assignment.
Quaifications
(a)    must have at least 15 years of experience including direct responsibility for the
identification and preparation of complex agricultural development projects, preferably
in East European Countries;
(b)    must have led multi-disciplinary identification/preparation teams for similar projects
which have a high success rate of being financed by multi-lateral aid agencies or bilateral
agencies;
(c)    undertaken analysis of agricultural sub-sector and feasibility studies for private sector
investments in agriculture; and
(d)    advanced degree in agriculture economics, finance or management, with special emphasis
in agriculture related enterprises.



118                                           ANNEX 8
Page 21 of 21
Annex Table 8.1: Estimated Personnel Requirements (Foreign and Local for
Technical Assistance
(Op    mons)
Compotents                                        1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999        TOtal
I. Market  fasucture Develam
Market Enterprise Deveopment
Grain Marketing and Storage                        1       3       8        8       7        2       29
Perishables Marketing & Storage                    1       4        6      13       15               39
Product Gradlng & S   9ndardatlo                   1       6        8      10                        25
Agricultural Commodity Exchange                    1       3       12      10                        26
Institutioaal Devdeopment & Mgmt                   1       2       8        9       5        2       27
Sub-Total                                        5       18      42       SO      27        4      146
Market Information System
Computer Specaist                                  1       1       2        1                         5
Stistica Specialist                                       12       12                                24
Information Technology Spec"i                              4       4                                  8
grading Specias                                            8       4                                  12
Sub-Total                                        1       25      22        1                        49
U. Farmer Jiformation & Advisory Sevices
Multi-DiscIplInary Information Dov.                  6      22       36      18        9                91
Multi-Media Specialists                              5       14      29       16       9                73
Ag. Exatsion & Managent Speal                        2       6        3                                 11
Ag. Training SpecialI                                3       6        3                                 12
enationa Co;pyri  Speci                                      6                                           6
Sub-Ttal                                        16       54      71       34      18               193
UI.Seed Idusta Develomnt
Sed Enterprise.
Investment Couneldlor                              1      12       12       8                        33
Seed Technologist                                  1      12       6        4                        23
Tour Co-ordinator                                  1       2                                          3
Technical Topics Co-ordlator                               2        1       1                         4
Contract Grower Managment                                  2        1       1                         4
Senimars and Other Traing                                  2       2        2                         6
Sub-Total                                        3       32      22       16                        73
IltutlonaPolcy Envionment
NSAC Management/Co-ordination                      1       3       3        2        1                10
National Seed Associatio                                   3        3       2                         8
Seed Inspection                                    1       4       2        2        1                10
Varietal Testing                                   1       3       2        1        1                8
Sub-Total                                        3       13      10        7       3                36
IV. ProLt Develonment Unit
Projet Managemaet SpecIalit                        6      12       12                                30
Accountant                                        6       12      12        6                        36
Procurement Specalist                              6       6       6                                 18
Economists                                        9       26       17       9       9                70
Investmet Counswlor                               6       13       6        6       6                37
Technical Specialists                              6      13       13       6                        38
Short/Long Term Technic  Speist (mplemeai         9       35      26        9       9                88
Short Term Technical Speit (reparati)                     29      47       17       9                102
Sub-Total                                       48      146     139       53      33               419
Total Requirements                                  76     288     306      161       81       4      916



119                                  ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 8
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
AGRICULTURAL REFORM IPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (AIS) PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT AND COMPONENT COSTS
The detailed costs for individual project components and cost categories are summarized in Annex
Tables 9.1 to 9.6 of this Annex. The base cost estimates were derived by the mission, in consultation
with MOAF counterparts, from feasibility studies, surveys and preparation reports. All costs were
expressed in US dollars. The underlying assumptions are as follows:
(a)    Physical Contingencies:           10 percent for civil works and equipment and
machinery (base costs) applied to all costs
expressed in US dollars, in line with established
Bank practice and experience with similar
projects worlewide.
(b)    Price Contingencies:              2.8 percent per annum (compounded) for civil
works and equipment and machinery (base costs
+ physical contingencies) and 2.8 percent
(compounded) for operating cost, training and
technical assistance (base costs) were applied to
all costs expressed in US dollars (according to
the average annual price increases projected by
the World Bank between 1992 and 2(C02).
(c)    Import Duties:                   15 percent of the estimated CIF cost for the
equipment and machinery.  Import duties
continue to change and 15 percent is about an
average.    Furthermore, Govermnent has
indicated its intention to re-examine the
structure of import duties in the near future.
(d)    VAT:                             23 percent of the estimated CIF cost for the
imported equipment and machinery (not
included in the cost tables).  Regulations
governing the levying of VAT on imports and
how it might be expensed against the capital
expenditure is under review.



Annex Table 9.1: Derivation of Detailed Base Cost for the ARIS Project
(US $ tSund)
Base Pojct Cost Loca                                                 Ba    Piject  ot: Foeg
Sub componet                                           1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999  Totl                                  1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999  Totl
A. MarJe
1. Iv Web                                                125   2766   5999   5014   1776         0      IS1O                     0    64S   252D   16M       990      0      6.225
2.  Isutp    _ d   _;rM                                   19S    265    166      46       7      4        664                   81   9994  16336  1470   22D    897    44,177
3.lnyov DuW                                                 5  1041   US9   1642         90     90       4426                    0      0       0      0       0      0          0
4. opog Coot                                                0    4t9   ISO   2102   2526   2529         9764                    0    52    2150   21U0   1650        50     6.52
S.TulnIbg                                                  0       0      0       0       0      0          0                   74    1U      142    137       7      57       6t0
6. T     ehalAaastae                                        0      0       0      0       0      0          0                    8S   368    734    706   56    266         2.71U
$*b Tbal                                              325   4511   9230   9503   4401   2623        30593                  242  11916  2162  19612   5403    269    60.2
B. a r InAoM
1.C vilWodc                                              427    906    S76   1041         0      0       3250                  21S    631    712    694        0      0      2.2
2. E* lp.mmtandMwAb1n                                      0      72      0       0       0      0         72                  116   116S   SOt1  4762   2379   260O    24.254
3.Impac Duty                                              133   1218    753    714    357    390         3635                    0      0       0      0       0      0          0
4. ObeuthCoet                                             310   1147  IS1   2700   2771   642          10456                    0      0       0      0       0      0          0
S. TSuDg                                                   0       0      0       0       0      0          0                  164   1374   1794   1611   179    1188        8.646       0
6. Teclknial  4otm                                         0       0      0       0       0      0          0                  410    534    439    229    124        0      1.805
Sub Todal                                             *0   3413   3514   445S   3128   2032         17413                 2469   1127   73   729S   4297   36            3 0
1.C" Wot                                                   0   2058  205    114          0       0       5301                    0   2316   2316   1438        0      0      6.074
2. EViutt mad )      IM                                  173   2369   1921   104S    192         0       5700                  333  39630  32907  169          0      0    69.80
3.Impit Duly                                               0       0       0      0       0      0          0                    0      0       0      0       0      0          a
4. Oplg CoAt                                                0  5375  S37S   3250          0      0      14000                    0      0       0      0       0      0          0
S. Tzabk                                                   0       0       0      0       0      0          0                  199    160    4S7    21       109      0      1.860
6.T.cminAsaltao                                            0       0       0      0       0      0          0                   50    666    485    287        0      0      1.486
Sub Tel                                               173   9102   9354   5479    192         0     2500t                  562  43494  36167  18910    109         0     99.262
D. Prict nIJovok Unit
1. Cwl1Woa*                                                0       0      0       0       0      0          0                    0      0       0      0       0      0          0
2. Equlpnentand .fa                                        0       0      0       0       0      0          0                   52     63      36     27      50      10       240
3. Jupt  DtD                                                8      9       6      4       a      2         36                    0      0       0      0       0      0          0
4.OpetngCat                                                90     16      87     63      13     44        474                  115    320    320    320    256        0       1I332.=
S.T dnlg                                                   0       0       0      0       0      0          0                  300    650    450    200    100       25       1.725      >
6. TorhnlcAld eto                                          0       0       0      0       0      0.         0                  400  1L50   1150    400    250         0      3.550      3
SubTal                      9S                                95      93   S7        91      46    S 10                    167   2313   1956    948    656        35      6.847
-  -  O



Annex Table 9.1: Derivation of Detailed Base Cost for the ARIS Project (contd.)
(US $ tousad)
Base Project Cost. Local                                            Base Pwject cost: Foreign
Sub compoent                                          1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999  Total                                1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999  Total
ARIS
Civil Works                                             552 S750   8934   7239   1776           0    24,251                  218   3794   5550   4002    99         0     14.554
EqWipment and Machinery                                 368   2706   2017   1091    199         4     6.456                 1352  58275  54299  36509   4549   3507   158.491
Import Duty                                              145  2339   2317   2360    454    481        8,097                    0      0      0       0      0       0         0
Operating Cost                                          400   7027   S853   8S3S  53S3   4"15    34,713                      115    645   2470   2470   1906       s0      7.,57
Traiing                                                   0       0      0       0      0       0         0                 1457   3089   243  2162  2090   1270          12911
Technical Assistance                                      o       0      0       0      0       0         0                 1018   2918   2806   1622    930    266        9,561
Todal Base Cost                                        1,465 17,622 22,192 19,525  7,812  4,701    73.516                  4,160 68.921 67.970 46,765  10,465  5.093   203,374
0O%



A\nnex Table 9.2: Summary of Detailed Cost Estimate for Markeot Infrastructure Development Component
Z                  lo                    IN                       ,m AMl                                                            n                   o
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i-                                                      Fbb -                Fft                 i
_wew w             Ld       cp    Lt   zarm   Ta  *              *w  ro           m      cip   ro       Lw       i    ro      Lfd  di    TO        Lr    *    roW   Lod    * ri     rot
1. C"i Woask
DM MOce                             125      0    125   27S6 845   3631          S      25      9" 519    5014   IM     884   177    M    2766        0    0  o       I5M     65     21925
PbV*I 00i ca   c    10.0%  10.0#     13      0     is    279      es    363       600    2S2    852       Sol1 I7    611S    M7        "     m        o    o    o   ISM        623    2192
Fdc   _lbgd         2.8%   2.8%       4      0      4     174     53    22        S70    239    80        644    240    89      289  161    450       0    0    0   I168I   694    2375
TOWlO 1et41                                  0    141   323       982   4221     7169   3011  IOISI    6159   2297   S45    2243  1250   3493          0    0    O  IS9S    7541   26492
,2. IA=wt mg
DM ons                              195     *1    276    265   9994  10259        166  163J6  16503       46  14750  14796        7 2120   2127       4    W|7  901    6t4  44177   44861
alq*  candtb_  10.0%  10.0%          20      S     2S      27    999   1026        17   1634   16S9         S   1475   14S0       1  212    213        0    90   90      68   4418    44S6
Mde cdpc_s    2SS%   2S               6      2      S      17    624    6tl        16   1552   I5SU         6   1IS9   1901       1  34*    346        1    M7   179     46   459     4643
Told co                             221     91    312    30S  11617  11925        199  19522  19721        57  1IUI9  18177       9 2677   26t6        5  1164  1169    79ll 53191   5S40
3. lhmt Dut
B8   ta    (15.0%)                    5      0      5    1041      0   tOXI      155       0   15S9      1642      0   1642      SO    O      S90    S9     0    90   446        0    4426
nal¢_¢hkmis 10.0%  10.0               0      0      0     104      0    104       156      0    156       164      0    164       9    0       9       9    40    9    443       0     445
Ptik  _etgawk        2.9%   2.8%      0      0      0      65      0      65      148      O    14S       211      0    211      is    0      is      to    0    12   4S7        0     457       -
Tola eOu                              5      0      5    1210      0   1t21      IS6S      O   IS6       2017      0   2017    tl3    0    113    117    0   117   5325          0    532S 
Be  coOl                              a      O      0    419    525    944       1505   21S0   3b55    21102   2150   495    2S21  1650   417    2529   SO  2S79  9V4    MS2  16309
VW"  cmae_    0.0%   0.0%            0      0      0       0      0       Q        O      O       O        O      O      O       O    O       O       O    O    O        O      O       O
P    d_ hWAacd      2.5S   2.SS       0      0      0      24      30     54      130    1S6    3t        327    2S1    S7S1   374  244    619    456    9   45    1311    720    21A
Told co$lD                            O      O      0    443   5SW       m       1635   2316   3971      3129   2401   55JO30        AM3  S  4797   26S   St  SWt  11095   7245   ISM4
Ran CeX                               0     74     74       0    1S4    1S4         0    142    342         0    137    I37       0    87     n7       o    n7   n7       o    6        68
Pl*      ¢     _wae      0.0%   O.S   O      O      O       O       O      O        O      O       O        O      O      O       O    O       O       O    O    O        O      O       O
Pdoe  _     "bade   2.9%   2.SS       O      2      2       0      to     10        0      12     12        0     16     16       0    13     Is       0    to   10       0     64       64
TOW eca                               0     76     76       0    lff    l9S         O    tS54    154        o    153    1s3       o   99      99       0    67   67       0    744      744
6. Toeliloisan
BMco                                  0     So     S8       0    358    Ms          0    734    734         0    7S  6            0M  a 5    556s      0   266  266       O    m71     27l8
ptrcd  o _cmk    0.0%    O.OS     O      O       O       O      O      O        °       O      O        O      O      O       O    °       °       O    O    °        a      O        O
Plidc c"_isw         2.8%    2 .8%    O      2      2       0      21     21        0     63      63        0     82     82       0    82     S2       0   48   48        0    299      2499*
TeSO c                                      go 90   o4      0    389   3So          0    791S   798         o    7S8    7U        O   638    63S       O   314  314       0   3017    3017  J 
TablBmoos                           32S    242    567   4,511 11,916  16,42S    9,210 21,l112 31.112    9,50  19,612 29,116  4,401 SONQ  9,S03   2,623 I,6  3.I92 3D59  60,o2    90.9t8  4 
Total Pltysical confingeDcies        32      s      41    459    1,OS4    1,493   7m    I,S8    2,655S   610 '         2,332    1S7  311    498        9   90   99  2,081 S,050   7,121° 
Total Prtice conltintgencies         to      7      17    X79    738  1,OIS       S64  2,053  2,917   tI,IU   2,4SS  3,673    679  S46  1,525    474  24S  719  3s49   6,374    9,869   °00
TolalPtojct Ca"                     t67    258    624         s200 IS,738 IS,938 t WIO,6  25S2 Ut  KU?   11,562 23,759 SS,121.  5,27 6,56 1.0 I,2    3,107 1,604 4.711 36.170 n,n79  1O7,W$



Annex Table 9.3: Summary of Detailed Cost Estimates for Farmer Information and Advisory Services Component
(US$ hSaad)
luate                JN                     199                                            1997                    199                   1999                 roa
Fog-           For-                    Fba           r          %-                    Foo'-                   F-                    Iw-                  Fo-
awMcompit           Locald    Qa   Loca    ap   Toa   Locd    e4ln   TOa   Lca                l     Toa   Loa    tip        tal  Loca    C        Tot    Local  c4n  Toa   Lca    tip   Total
1. Cl WKrsb
Baas,coo                              427    218    645       906    631   1537       876    712   1568    1041    694   173S         0       0      0        0     0     0   320   2255   SSOS
Pbyul_caica ge tac O.O% 1.0%           43      22     65      91      63    154       66      71    159      104     69    174        0       0      0        0     0     0    325    225    SS0
Pike cogzte1c1ca      2.8%    2.8%     13       7     20       57     39      96      83      6S    15I  134         89    223        0       0      0       0      0     0    267    203    490
Total co0                             483    247    729    1053    733   1766    1047    851  I9           1279    S53   2131        0       0      0        0     0     0   3662   2663   654S
2. Enuigment and achinuv
Ban coes                                0    686    U6        72   6566   6660         0   S016   S018         0   4762   4762        0   2379   2379         0  2600  2600      72  24234  24306
Pld,ucalc_tIuc I10.0%  10.0%            0      69     89       7    S59    866         0    502    502         0    476    476        0    238    23S        0   260   260        7   2423   2431
Ptic coalgcaceas    2.S%    2.8%        0      27     27       4    536    541         0    477    477         0    612    612        0    387    387         0       S 5S SIS    4   2555  2560
Tota cam                                0   1002   1002        S4   9984  IO7        0   5997   5997         0   S850    50         0   3004   3004         0  3376  3376      64  29213  29296
3. hwojrtD 9&
BDancoat (15.0%)                      133       0    133    12S        0   1266      753       0    7S3      714      0    714      357       0    357      390     0   390   3635       0   3635
Pbyslcacontingencis 10.0%  10.0%      13       0      13     129      0    129       75       0      75      71      0      71      36       0      36      39     0    39    364       0    364
Pricectoologeacl     2.8%   2.6%       4       0      4       SO      0      SO      72       0      72      92      0      92      S8       0      56      77     0    77    3S3       0    383
T(dS coos                             ISO       0    150    149        0   1498       899      0    899      S77       0    877     451       0       1ISt  S6      0   506   4362       0   4382
4. OpwDwati Cast
B    coda                             310       0    310    1147       0  1147    IUS          0   IS6   2700        02700    2771           0  2771    1642       0  1642  10456       0  10456
P**lA coatlpcl   0.0%   0.0%            0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0        0     0     0       0      0       0
Ptice ccwlogeso    2.8%   2.6%          9       0      9       65      0      65      163      0    163      315      0    315      410       0    410      296     0   296   25          0   1258
TOWl cam                              319       0    319    1212       0   1212    2048        0   2048    3016       0   3016    3181        0   3181    1938      0  1938  11714       0  11714
5. T
DMo code                                0    884    S84         0   1374   1374        0   1794   1794         0   1611   1611        0   1795   1795        0  1IS8  11S        0   6646   6646
P1rs1cal  c    _ingm1  0.0%    0.0%     0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0        0     0     0       0      0       0
Prkcca*fW ca          2.8%   2.SX       0      25     25       0      76      78       0    1 5       ss 1     0    168    1          0    266    266        0   214   214        0    926    926
Totalco                                 0    909    909        0   1452   1452         0   1949   1949         0   179    1799        0   2060   2060        0  1402  1402        0   9572   972
6. Tecil Aa
DMs codh                                0    4S0    4S0        0    534    534         0    439    439         0    229    229    .0    124    124           0      0     0       0   180S   INS0
P*byll c       _lcasta   0.0%    0.0%   0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0       0      0     0       0      0       0
Pdu  c       _cdquale  2.8%   2.8%      0      13     13       0      30      30       0      38      38       0     27      27       0      16     18       0      0     0       0    127    127
Tdt coe                                 0    494    494        0    564    564         0    477    477         0    255    255        0    142    142        0      0     0       0   1932   1932       t
JQ)g>
Total B        coSt                   S70  2.460   .339   3.413  11.127  14.540   3,514  7.9S3  11.477   4.455  7.295  11.751   3.128  4.297  7.425   2.032 3.768 5.20  17.413 36.940 54.353           as §
Total Physical contigencies            s6    110    166    227    922   1.149         163    s7      736     176    546    721       36    23       274      39   260   299    696  2.649  3.345        °
Total PriC  contingcics                26      72     9       W 207    684    891    31S    737   1055       541    916  1,457      468    671   1,140      373   730 1,103   1.933  3.,11   5.743      00 "0
Totl Project Cos                      952  2.65I  3.E09   3.646  12.733  16560   3.995  9.274  13.68   s.m          757  13.929   S,632  5.7   86.39   2,444 4,778 72    2.041 43.0  63.441



Annex Table 9.4: Summary of Detailed Cost Estimates for Seed Industry Development Component
(US$ douad)
S claae            199                   1995                   1998                  1997                1998                 1999                 Tra
1&- E-                                              F4V                                                                                 PJ-i
Ce_aAupmr          LOcl   O       LOa  4a  rot        Lca    e       Tal   L l              TOt   Loal            TotalW  Local      nT       Lrcl  a   Tot   Loa         C&      ral
I. civil Work
lagcogs                              0    0    0       25    231S   4376      208   2318   476    1184   1438   2622         0    0       0      0    0    0   $30I    am4   117
_bHqa1c1c.qasa 10.0%  10.0%          0    0    0        206    232    438      206    232    43       II$   144    262       0    0       0       0    0    0    V3       607    1137
Pdoscdlagacl.       2.8%   2.8%      0    0    0        129    4S    273       196    220    416    1S2    U5    33"         0    0       0      0    0    0    476        550    126
Totd coon                            0    0    0       2393   2695   50S      2460  2770   2D0    1454   1767   3221         0    0       0      0    0    06381          7231   1353S
2 Eam    and Md
Dow code                           173  333  506       2369  39630  499       t921  327  34828   1045  169   1801S    192    0    192            0    0    0   S700    940    95S5O
Pby*   coggaclclO 10.0%  10.0%      17   33   St        237   3963   4200      192   3291   3483    £05   1697  102        19    0      19      0    0    0    5         894     9554
lec. ccwlgclss    2.8%   2.8%        S   10   16        148   2475   2623      183   3127   3309    134   218O   2314       31    0      31      0    0    0    51  S792            94
Toes) coda                          196  377  57       2754  46068  48822     2296  39324  41620   12S4  20847  22131    242    0    242         0    0    0   677   106616  1138
DM coga (15.0%)                      0    0    0          0      0      0        0      0       0      0      0      0       0    0       0      0    0    a        0       0        0
1bya"I aofthipack10.0%  10.0%        0    0    0          0      0      0        0      0       0      0      0      0       0    0       0      0    0    0        0       0        0
Pd.c MagcgatcIm     2.8%   2.8%      0    0    0          0      0      0        0      0       0      0      0      0       0    0       0      0    0    0        0        0       0 
ThoaIcet                             0    0    0          0      0      0        0      0       0      0      0      0       0    0       0      0    0    0        0        0       0
4. OtQle Cost
BUmoo                                a    0    0       5375      0   537s     5375      0 535    3250         0   3250       0    0       0      0    0    0 140O            0   14000
Pth7saloacniq         0es.0%   0.0%  0    0    0         0      0      0        0      0       0      0      0      0       0    0       a      0    0    0        0        0       0
Piecoo_ad a    2.81  2.8%            0    0    0        305      0    305      464      0    464    380       0    380       0    0       0      0    a    0110              0    1149
TVteoqog                             0    0            560       0   5610      So39     0   589   3630        0   3630       0    0       0      0    0    0  15149          0   £5149
s ooe                                0 199   199          0     80    80         0    457    457       0    215    215       0   109    0t9      0    0    0        0    I80    1860
flu_ucoeIqnlu  0.0%   0.0%           0    0    0          0      0      0        0      0       0      0      0      0       0    0       0      0    0    0        0       0        0
?dzwC  bVmdu        2.852.8          0    6    6          0     50     50        0     39      3       0     25    25        0  16       16      0    0    0        0      t36     136
TOSICOg                              0  205  205          0    930    930        0    496    496       0    240    240       0   125    125      0    0    0        0    1996    1996
6. TocJ C        *       .
ah coda                              0  50  50            0    66    666         0    485    485       0    287   287        0    0       0      0    0    0        0    148S    148S
Pby*d cmtac lcO.0%   0.0%            0    0    0          0      0      0        0      0       0      0      0      0       0    0       0      0    0    0        0       0        0
Prm C.CcW   ccD    2.8%   2.8%      0     1    1         0     38    3S         0     42      42      0     34     34       0    0       0      0    0    0        0      I1S     I1S
Thalcogs                              051       51        0    204    204        0    527    527       0    321   51         0    0       0      0    0    0              1603    £603
Total Bas costs                     173    2  75S    9,802 4S349  S3.296    9.354 36,167 45.21   5,479 18,910 24,389    192  109    301          0    0    0 25.001   99.262  124.263   Of
Total Physical contingencies         17   33  S5        443  4.195  4.638       398  3.523  3.n      223  1,841  2,064      19    0      19      0    0    0  1.100   9.591   10.691    -
TOal Price cotingeies                5   17   23       5S2  2.708  3,290       842  3,428  4.270    666  2.424  3.089       31   16    47        0    0    0  2.127    S593   10.7        °°
Totl ProjectCost                    196  633  928   10.W27 507 61.M4   10.595 43,11S 53.712   6,36  23,174 29.542    242  125    368              0    0    02.27   117.447  t45,674



Annex Table 9.5: Summary of Detailed Cost Estimates for the Project Development Unit
(US$ thaouad)                                                                                                                                                     _ _ _
x CA1               1994                  1995                   9                    1997                  1998                 1999                 ro
F..-     P      o-                  F"-                   Fwr                   F"-                   F"-                  Fo-                  Fo-
Cogmcpowt          Loa  C 4p   L ld         0   Total  Lca       g    Total  Lo  r        md4p Tot   LOa    e4a   Tot    Loca   *l    Toa   Loa   Op  Tod  Loa              c4p  rTot
1v.ivit Works
BMCOeI                               0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0    0    0        0       0      0
P_ acaitImcIalo.0%  10.0%            0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0       0    0    0       0        0      0
Priccft coeaics    2.8%   2.8%       0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0       0    0    0       0        0      0
TOtW cat                             0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0       0    0    0       0        0      0
Z Eanimnt and a
]kw cow                              0     52      52      0     63      63      0     38      38      0     27     27       0     50     50       0    10   10      0      240    240
P*yulCslamtp"  10.0% l0.0%           0      5       5      0      6      6       0      4      4       0      3      3       0      5      5       0     1    1      0       24     24
Pdzc c      _nL     2 S 2.8%   28%   0      2       2      0      4      4       0      4      4       0      3      3       0      a      a       0    2    2       0       23     23
TOWlcoda                             0     59      S9      0     73      73      0     45      45      0     33      33      0     63     63       0    13   13      0      287    287
Banccoe  (13.0%)                     8      0       8      9      0      9       6      0      6       4      0      4       S      0      8       2    0    2      36        0     36
Pbyalcuoalleac        o 10.0%  t00z  1      0       1      1      0       1      1      0       1      0      0      0       1      0      1       0    0    0       4        0      4
Puci c _Igca        2.8%   2.8%      0      0      0       I      0       1      1      0       I      1      0       1      1      0      1       0    0    0       3        0      3
Told coas                            9      0       9     11      0      11      7      0       7      S      0      5      10      0     10       2    0    2       43       0     43       u
4. Opaode Cadt
Baecouf                             90    115    205      86    320    406      87    320    408      83    320    403      83    256   339       44    0   44    474    1332   1805
Phya   _con a       0.0%   0.0%      0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0    0    0       0        0      0
PziccU ocac1es    2.8%   2.8%        3      3       6      5      is    23       8     28      35      10    37     47      12    38      50       a    0    8    45        124    169
TaIcos                              93    118    211      91    339    429      95    348    443      93    358    450      96    293    389      52    0   52    51S    1456   1975
Baw cods                             0    300    3£0       0    650    650       0    450    450       0    200    200       0    tO0    1O0       0    25   25      0    1725   1725
Pbyakalauatnon        .0% 0.0%       0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0       0    0    0       0        0      0
P?ikccotagmde_      2.8%   2.8%      0      a       S      0     37      37      0     39      39      0     23     23       0     15    IS        0    5    5       0      127    127
TotbIcoSI                            0    308    30S       0    687    687       0    489    489       0    223    223       0    lS    115       0    30   30      0    1852   1852
6. Technicl Assistance
cM coa                               0    400    400       0  1350   1350        0  1150   5IS0        0    400    400       0    250    2S0       0    0    0       0    3550   3SS0
Pbysla cogcaies  0.0%   0.0%         0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0       0    0    0        0       0      0
P&G cce_db s      2.8%   2.8%      0      11     11      0     77      77      0     99      99      0     47     47       0     37     37       0    0    0        0     271    271
TOlW coe                             0    411    411       0   1427   1427       0   1249 1249         0    447    447       0    287    2S7       0    0    0       0    3821   3821  XO
Total Base costs                    98    S67    965      95  2.383  2.478      93  I.958  2,051      S7    94   1,03       91    656    747      46   3S   S1    510   6.64?  7,35S   -  Z
Total Physical contingencies         i       5      6       1      6     7        1     4       4      0      3       3      1      5      6       0     1    1      4       24     2C
Total Priccontingencies              3     24      27      5    136    141       8    169    178       10    111    121     14    98    111        8    7    IS    48       545    593 S
Totll Pr;ojct Cosb                  101    S97    998    102  2.525  2.627    102  2.131  2.233       98  1.061  1.159    10    759    064        S4   43   9?    56t   7.416  7.97



Annex Table 9.6: Summary of Detailed Cost Estimates for the ARIS Project
(US$ thouand)
% caclae          199                     199                     199                       199                    19                    199                    Toa
Cos cosposo         Local  eta   Loa   eIs  TOW         Lrwd    CgA   TOWa       Lcl   tip        rot     Locda   el      rot    Loal   en   TOtW   Locel re Tdol  Loca                sg       rota
1. Ci Works
Dase code                           552   213   770      S750   3794   9544      8934   5550   14484       7239   4002  11241   1776    990   2766          0     0       0  24251   14554   38S0
pthy     nk coalmcio  10.0% 10.0%    55    22    77      S7S    3W       954      *93    55S    1448        724    400   1124      17*      99     m        0     0       0   2425    14S5    3
Pdkeca ctlnacis    2.8%2.8%          17    7    24        359    237    596       849    527    1376        930    514   1444    239    161    450          0     0       0   2444    1446    3*91
Toaw cods                           624   247   871      66SS   4410  11095    10676   6632   17308         82   4916  13809   2243   1250   3493           0     0       0  29120   17456   46576
2. EiDmeat da                   ,
Base cota                           368  1352  1720      2706  58275  60981      2087  54299   563S6       1091  36509  37600      199   4549   4748        4  3507   3511   6456  158491  164946
Phylacco _tla IO.OX 10.0%            37   135   172       271   5827   609S       209   5430    5639        109   3651   3760       20    455    475        0   351    351    646   15849   16495
Price oolgciac       2.8%  2.8%      11    42    53       169   3640   3909        19"   SI59    5357       140   4690   4S31       32    741    773        1   695    696    SS2   14967   15519
Tot cost                            416  1529  1945      3146  67742  70188      2495  64*88    67382      1341  44S50  46191      251   5745   5996        5 4553   4559   7653  18930?  196960
3. liy
BMc cod$ (15.0%)                    145     0   145      2339      0   2339       2317      0    2317      2360       0   2360    454        0    454    481    0    481   8097           0     809t
pFacaloeamzggarics IO.OX0.O%S    I5         0    I5       234      0    234       232       0      232      236       0    236      45       0     45      48    0       4*    810        0      S10
Pdeeoiamlea          2.Sf 2.1%        4     0     4       146      0    146       220       0      220      303       0    303      74       0     74      95    0       9S    a43        0      843
Tota code                           164    0   164       2719      0   2719      2769       0     2769     2899       0   2*99    574        0    574     625    0    625   9750          0    9750
4. Opertn CoDst
BD   cost                           400   115   515     7027    S45   7872       S53   2470    11323       OM35   2470  11305   5383   1906   7288   4215    50   4265  34713    7857   42570
Pbya_lcaloncls 0.0%  0.0%            0      0     0        0       0       0        0       0        0        0       0      0       0       0      0       0     0       0      0        0        0
Pice cooatlcak       2.3%  2.8%      11     3    14      399      48    447       765    213       978     1032    289   1320    797    282   1079    760         9    769   3763       844    4608
Tota cos                           411   IIS  5sO      7426    *93   8319       9618   2684   12301       9866   2759  12625   6180   21U8   S36    4975    59   5034  3*476    8701   47177
Daim costa                            0  14S7  1457        0   30S9   3089          0   2843    2S43          0   2162   2162        0   2090   2090        0  1270   1270       0    12911   12911
phcysicalCoutlagmcus  0.0%  0.0%     0      0     0        0       0       0        0       0       0         0      0       0       0      0       0       0     0      0       0        0       0
Ptec ccatsgsaeics    2.S%  2.8%     0    41    41         0    175    175          0    246       246        0    253    253        0    309    309        0   229    229       0     1253    1253
Teta oota                             01149149S             0   3264   3264         0   309       30*9        0   2415   2415        0   2400   2400        0  1499   1499       0    14164   14164
6. TechnicalAssistncoe
Dais cot                              0  101  1OIS        0   2918   291t          0   2308    2SOS          0   1622   1622        0    930    930        0   266    266       0    9561    9561
Pnydcal coeDenclcs 0.0% 0.0%         0      0     0        0       0       0        0       0       0         0      0       0      0      0       0       0     0      0       0        0       0
Prlcecoo±.cles    2.8%  2.8%         0    29    29         0    166    166          0    243      243         0    19    189        0    138    138        0    48      4*      0      812      812
Total cost                           0  1047  1047         0   304   304            0   3051    3051          0 1 l    ISI           0   1067   I67         0   314    314       0    10373   10373  
Total Base costs                  1.465 4.160 5.626   17.822 68.92t F6.743   22.192 67.970   90.162   19.525 46,765 66,290   7.,12 10.46S  1,276   4.701 5.093  9.794 73.S16  203.374  276.90    °° Z
Total Physical contingencies   107   is7   264    1.010  6.207  7,286    1,334  5,9SS  7,319    1,069  4.051   5,120               243    554    797       49   351    399  3,8    17,304   21.1ES X
Total Price contingencies            44   121   165    1.073  4,266  5,339    2.032  6.388    8,420    2,405  5,935  8,340   1.193  1,631  2.824          S56   981   1,837  7,603   19.'2   26,925    00  O
Total Project Cots                1,616 4.438 6,054   19.97S 79,394 99.364   25.557 80.343  105.901   22999 56.751  79.750   9,247 12,650 21,397   5,605 6,425  12.030 85,100  240.000  325,.O0



127                                 ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 25
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (ARIS) PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES AND ARRANGEMENTS
INTRODUCJrON
1.    The individual Component Implementation Units (CIU) of each project component would
undertake the procurement through procurement agents (agents), under the general supervision of the
Project Development Unit 'PDU). The private seed and marketing enterprises would also procure
through procurement agents.
2.    As noted in the Appraisal Report and elsewhere in this annex, most of the loan-financed
procurement would follow international competitive bidding as required by the 'Guidelines: Procurement
Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992)" and the Loan Agreement.
3.    The PDU would monitor the selection of procurement procedures proposed by the procurement
agents to ensure that they were in accordance with the Loan Agreement, review the draft bidding
documents and the evaluation reports with award recommendations prepared by the agents, and transmit
the bidding documents and evaluation reports for Bank review as required. For this purpose, the PDU
would have experienced procurement staff which would provide technical ass.stance to the CIU's and the
agents.
4.    Equipment and civil works procurement would be carried out by international competitive
bidding, except as noted below, in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines The Bank's
standard bidding documents for the Procurement of Goods and the Construction of (Smaller) Works will
be used. Consultants will be employed following the Bank's Guidelines "Uses of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981)."
5.    Equipment will be packaged for procurement through periodic bidding exercises for each project
component or sub-component, except for computers and communication equipment for MOAFCC, farmer
information and advisory service and the market information system components, which will be combined
for procurement purposes.
6.    Each procuring unit is expected to obtain the services of a procurement agent. These procurement
agents will be selected on an technical and fee basis from firms in accordance with the Bank Guidelines.
The consideration for the selection and responsibilities of these procurement ageiLs is discussed further
below.
MARKET INFRASRUCrURE DEVELOPMENT
7.    The market infrastructure would include installations in Moscow City, Moscow Oblast and
Belgorod Oblast. The civil works for these facilities would be bid through ICB, estimated at US$6.6



128                                ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 25
million, where the value would be greater than US$1.0 million, Local Competitive Bidding (LCB),
estimated at US$18.0 million, where the contract value would be between US$100,000 and US$1.0
million, and Local Shopping (LS), with at least three competitive quotations, for contracts less that
US$100,000, amounting to US$0.3 million. Pre-qualifications would be required for LCB procurement.
A summary of procurement arrangement for market infrastructure development is provided in Annex
Table 10.1. The local procedures (LCB and LS) would be acceptable to the Bank. The first two
contracts and those above US$500,000 for LCB would be subject to prior review.
8.    The renovation works, US$1.7 million, would be widely scattered in various government
installations. The local civil works component would be carried out by local public works departments
(US$1.2 million) from their own resources by force account. The imported inputs (US$0.5 million) will
be procured through international shopping (IS) in consultation with PDU.
9.    Equipment for the infrastructure facilities would be procured through ICB, US$13.6 million,
Limited International Bidding (LIB) US$4.0 million, and IS US$0.7 million. The equipment procurement
would be packaged in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and acquired through ICB for packages above
US$0.5 million, LIB for packages between US$300,000 and US$0.5 million, and by IS for packages
smaller than US$300,000.
10.   Materials (US$7.3 million) would cover inputs required for the operations of the facilities and
would be procured by the enterprises on the basis of International Shopping.
11.   The computer and communications equipment for the market information system (US$35.6
million) and the farmer information and advisory service (included below in the Summary Table for
Farner Information and Advisory Services), as well as for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's
Computer Center will be procured through ICB.
12.   Computer and communications equipment supply would include a long-term servicing and
warranty program by the suppliers. Post-sales service is essential to the effective use of the equipment
by providing maintenance and repairs as required to keep the equipment operational. A servicing
arrangement is believed to be necessary in the current local circumstances. The requisite service would
be provided at the oblast level, i.e.. the supplier would be required to ensure that service would be
provided at the oblast city in which the FIS/MIS facilities were located. Rayon equipment would have
to be delivered to this city for service. A performance guarantee from the supplier would be required
to ensure that the service was provided.
13.   The first two construction contracts and those above US$0.5 million per contract procured under
LCB for the market infrastructure facilities would be subject to prior review. Assuming the computer
and communications equipment for the market information system, including the equipment for the
Computer Center and the farmer information and advisory services, is procured as a combined exercise,
there could be as many as 200 separate awards. Prior review of awards for equipment exceeding
US$300,000 would cover 80 per cent of the total value of the procurement.



129                                           ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 25
Annex Table 10.1: Summary of Procurement Arngements for Market InLrtructur Development Component
(US$ m olon equivalent)
Procurement Method
Cost Categories                                                         NBF        T1)TAL
ICB         ICB        OTES
1. Works
Constuction                                  6.6         18.0          0.3                     24.9
(1.9)      (5-1)          (0.1)                   (7-1)
Renovation                                                             1.7                      1.7
(0.5)                   (0.5)
2. Goods
Equipment and Machimey                       13.6                      4.7                     18.3
(13.6)                    (3.9)                   (17.5)
Computer/Communications                     35.6                                               35.6
(35.6)                                            (35.6)
Materials                                                              7.3                      7.3
(7.3)                   (7.3
3. Consultng Services
Training                                                               0.7                      0.7
(0.7)                   (0.7)
Technical Assistance                                                   3.0                      3.0
(3.0)                   (3.0)
4. Miscellaneous
Operating Costs                                                                    11.1        11.1
Import Duties                                                           _           5.3         5.3
Total Component Cost                        55.8   |    18.0    |    17.7          16.4        107.9
(Bank finaning) b                           (51.1)       (5.1)    |   (15.5)                  (71.7)
ICB: International CoMpetitive Bidding.
LCB: Local Competitive Bidding.
Others: Refers to LIB, Limited International Bidding, US$4.0 million; IS, Intenaional Shopping, US$8.5 million.
and Local Shopping, US$0.3 million and force account US$1.2 million, as well as US$0.7 nillion fof
training and US$3.0 for technical assistance.
NBF: Non Bank Financed
b   Figures in parenthesis reer to Bank financing



130                                ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 25
14.   Technical assistance (US$3.0 million) would be provided by consultants whose selections, terms
of reference and contractual arrangements would be according to the Bank Guidelines. Normally
consulting assignments would be filled through competitive proposals from shortlisted consulting firms;
individual consultants would be used where (a) teams of personnel are not required, (b) no additional
outside professional support is required, and (c) the experience and qualifications of the individual are
the paramount consideration. The terms of reference and approximate times of assignment are contained
in Annex 8. Training (US$0.7 million) is for courses and seminars, and more details are provided in
Annex 7.
FARMER INFORMATION AND ADVISORY SERvICES
15.    To the extent possible the individual items will be bulked and coordinated by the PDU. A
summary of procurement arrangements for the FIAS component are summarized in Annex Table 10.2.
The foreign component of the civil works (US$2.7 million) consists of security systems, furnishings and
fixtures for federal, oblast and rayon level FIAS centers. The exact items still have to be specified and
there would be as many as 30 oblasts, with a larger number of rayons. so the amount for each FIAS
center will be small. Therefore, as the items cannot be bulked because of dispersed location and year
of renovation, the items would be purchased though International Shopping (US$2.7 million).
16.   Renovation work (US$3.8 million equivalent) would be done by force account by local public
works units with local funds.
17.   Equipment purchases above US$0.5 million would be purchased through ICB for US$12.4
million. Some equipment is varied, spread over time and different users and cannot be conveniently
bulked. Equipment of US$1.7 million would be acquired through LIB and US$3.3 million by IS. Some
of the audio-visual equipment may be purchased through direct purchase for reasons of compatibility;
direct purchase would be no greater than US$100,000.
18.   The computer and communications equipment will be purchased jointly with similar items for the
market information system component through ICB (US$11.7 million).
19.   Prior review of awards in excess of US$300,(00 for goods would include 80 percent of the total
value.
20.   Training (US$9.6 million) is for institutional development and includes foreign training courses
for staff at the federal, oblast, and rayon levels, training for multi media specialists, and for individual
short-term advisors.
21.   Technical assistance (US$1.9 million) would be provided by consultants whose selections, terms
of reference and contractual arrangements would be according to the Bank Guidelines. Normally
consulting assignments would be filled through competitive proposals from shortlisted consulting firms;
individual consultants would be used where (a) teams of personnel are not required, (b) no additional
outside professional support is required, and (c) the experience and qualifications of the individual are
the paramount consideration. The terms of reference and approximate times of assigm ent are contained
in Annex 8.



131                                         ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 25
Annex Table 10.2: Summary of Procurement Arrangemnts for Farmer Information
and Advisory Service Component
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Cost Categories                                      I                 NBF       TYOAL
ICB        I.CB        OrHERS
1. Works
Renovation                                                           2.7         3.8         6.5
(2.7)                  (2.7)
2. Goods
Conputer Equipment                          11.7                                             11.7
(11.7)                                           (11.7)
Equipment and Machinery                    12.4                      5.1         0.1         17.6
(12.4)                    (5-1)                  (17-5)
3. Consulting Services
TMrann                                                               9.6                     9.6
(9.6)                  (9.6)
Technical Assistance                                                  1.9                    1.9
__________   (1.9)     __ _ _ _     (1.9)
4. Miscellaneous
Operating Costs                                                                  11.7        11.7
Inmport Duties                                                                   4.4         4.4
Total Componeit Cost                       24.1                      19.3        20.0        63.4
(Bank finaning) b                      I(24.1)                      _19____3_4
ICB: International Competitive Bidding.
LCB: Local Competitive Bidding.
Others: Refers to LiB, LUmited Internatioml Bidding, US$1.7 million, IS Intnational Shopping, US$6.0 million,
and Direct contact, US$0.1 million. Other also includes US$9.6 million for traning and US$1.9 miilion
for technical assistnce accoring to Bank Guidelines.
NBF: Non Bank FPinced
b   Figures in paneses refer to Bank finncing.



132                                ANNEX 10
Page 6 of 25
SEED INDuSmY DEVELOPMENT
22.   The projected contracts for the construction and placing in operation of corn and sunflower seed
processing plants total up to US$7.2 million of civil works and US$83.8 million of equipment. These
contracts are estimated to be between US$7.0 million and US$11.0 million equivalent and would be
awarded following international competitive bidding. Bidders would be pre-qualified. The first five
plants are proposed to be commissioned through turnkey contracts. Later units may be divided into
separate civil works and equipment supply and installation contracts, as project implementation takes place
and seed enterprises gain experience with the design and construction of new seed processing plants. The
corntracts for civil works and for equipment would continue to be placed through ICB. A summary of
procurement arrangements for the Seed Industry Development component is provided in Annex Table
10.3. Some preliminary and simple works, estimated at US$6.3 million, such as roads, garages, lab and
office buildings, will be constructed by the enterprises using their own funds.
23.   Equipment procured for institutional development, i.e. for the Russian Seed Registration Agency
and the Russian Seed Inspection Agency would be through ICB for US$18.2 million, LIB for US$4.5
million and IS is for US$0.1 million.
24.   Some local equipment for processing and laboratory items, estimated at US$6.9 muilion, would
be purchased by the enterprises with their own funds, primarily on a negotiated basis. This equipment
is produced locally and is nature, timing, and availability are such that it does not lend itself to formdal
competitive bidding.
25.   The contracts for seed processing plants, whether turnkey or separate construction and equipment,
would be subject to prior review by the Bank. Equipment contracts greater then US$300,000 would be
subject to prior review. These limits would cover essentially all loan-financed procurement.
26.   Training will be arranged with foreign training agencies and consist of study tours and training
to support the investment activities of the seed enterprises. The trainees will be individuals selected by
the public agencies and the enterprises with the concurrence of the PDU and the Bank. The terms of
reference and the conditions of training contract would be acceptable to the Bank.
27.   Technical assistance would assist the seed registration, inspection agencies and enterprises.
Individual advisers would be selectively recruited by the PDU and would be acceptable to the Bank. The
terms of reference and the conditions of contract for technical assistance would be acceptable to the Bank.
Details are provided in Annex 8.



133                                          ANNEX 10
Page 7 of 25
Annex Table 10.3: Summary of Procurement Arrangements for Seed Industry Development Component
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method*
Cost CategorCes                                                       NBF TJTAL
ICB        LCB         (YI'IER
1. Works
Turnkey Seed Processing Works               7.2                                   6.3        13.5
(7.2)                                            (7.2)
2. Goods
Turnkey Equipmern                          83.8                                  4.0         87.8
(83.8)                                           (83.8)
bstitutional Development Equipment         18.2                      4.6         2.9         25.7
(18.2)                    (4.6)                  (22.8)
3. Consulting Services
Training                                                             2.0                     2.0
(2.0)                  (2.0)
Technical Assistance                                                  1.6                    1.6
(1.6)                  (1.6)
4. Miscellaneous
Operating Costs                                                                  15.1        15.1
Total Componet Cost                     1109.21                 1     8.2        28.3  1 145.7
(Bank finaning)a b                                              119.)(8.2)1 _____          (117.4)
a   ICB: International Competitive Bidding.
LCB: Local Conpedtive Bidding.
Others: Refes to LIB, Limited Imternational Bidding, US$4.5 million, and ternational Shopping,
US$0.1 million, tr , US$2.0 million and technical assistance, US$1.6 Million.
NBF: Non Bank Financed
b   Figures in parentheses refer to Bank financing.



134                                 ANNEX 10
Page 8 of 25
PROJECr DEVELOPMENT UNIT
28.   The equipment for the PDU (US$0.3 million) would be procured by IS as the items are varied
and needed at the beginning. A summary of procurement arrangements for the PDU is provided in
Annex Table 10.4.
29.   Training (US$1.9 million) would consist of study tours and workshops. Details for various
training programs are provided in Annex 7.
30.   Technical assistance (US$5.3 million) also includes US$1.5 million professional and support staff,
as well as a retainer for legal assistance to the PDU and would be selected in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. The technical assistance would cover short-term consultants over the project
implementation period. These consultants would be recruited in accordance with the Bank's Consultant
Guidelines and the terns of reference and the conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the
Bank. Details are provided in Annex 8.
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
31.   The Component Implementation Units (CIUs) of each project component, and the private seed
and marketing enterprises, would undertake the procurement of goods and works and turnkey contracts
using the services of the procurement agents. Individual consultants, consulting firms and procurement
agents would be procurd following procedures specified in the World Bank's Guidelines Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981).
32.   As noted in the Staff Appraisal Report and elsewhere in this annex, most of the procurement
would follow international competitive bidding as required by the World Bank's Guidelines Procurement
Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and the Loan Agreement. The PDU would ensure that procurement
procedures are in accordance with the Bank Guidelines, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank. PDU
would also review the draft bidding documents and the evaluation reports with award recommendations
prepared by the agents, and transmit the bidding documents and evaluation reports for the Bank prior
review as required.
Slection of Procurement Agents
33.   The procurement agent would be selected by assessing capability, experience and fee levels. The
PDU would propose a shortlist of qualified firms capable of satisfactorily handling procurement under
the ARIS project.



135                                         ANNEX 10
Page 9 of 25
Annex Table 10.4: Summary of rocurement Arrngements for the PDU
(1S$ mlion equimlent)
Procurement Method a                  .
Cost Categories                                      I                NBF        TOTAL
ICB   |    LCB         OYrHE:R__
Equipment and Machinery                                                 0.3                     0.3
(0.3)                  I0.3)
Consulting Services  C
Training                                                              1.9                    1.9     |
(1.9)                  (1 9) I
Technical Assistance                                                 5.3                     5.3     |
(S.3)                  (S.3)
Miscellaneous
Operating Costs                                                                   0.5        0.5
Imort Duties (less than 0.1)                                                     0.0         0.0
Total Component Cost n                                               7.5         0.5         8.0
(Bank financink                          _                           (7.5)              |     _(7.5)
£   LCB: LoCompettiveBiddig.
UB: Limited International Bidding.
Others: Re*rs to Intnationa Shopping US$0.3 million, tahig (US$1.9 million) and technical assistance
cnutns(US$ 5.3 goilion).
NBF: Non Bank Financed
b   Figures in parentheses refer to Bank finamcing.



136                                ANNEX 10
Page IO of 215
34.   Procurement Arrangements The PDU would be responsible for the overall supervision of
procurement under the project. The PDU would have procurement personnel and technical experts to
advise and assist in project procurement and project implementation. Government departments and public
agencies would use a selected procurement agent for procurement. Each of the private enterprises would
also be required to use a qualified procurement agent. During the mid-term review of the project, the
continued use of the procurement agents would be assessed in the light of experience gained and the
prc^urement capabilities developed by the component implementation units and the PDU.
35.   The procurement agent for the public agencies would be selected from a short list prepared by
the PDU in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. The PDU would prepare a longer list of eight to
twelve qualified procurement firms for selecting procurement agents by the private enterprises. From
this list, selection will be made in accordance with criteria of qualifications and price in the invitation for
proposal. The selection would be based upon experience and administrative capacity, in combination with
fee levels. The fees of the procurement agents would be eligible for disbursement from the loan
proceeds.
36.   The organizations' fees and reimbursable costs would be disbursed in the form of direct payments
from the Bank or from the Special Account.
International Competitive Bidding
37.   The following steps would be taken to implement the international bidding requirements of the
Loan. They are intended to be an explanatory guide to the Project Development Unit and the Component
Implementation Units.
38.   General Procurement Notice The Project r jvelopment Unit's procurement specialist would
prepare a General Procurement Notice for publication in "Business Development" of the United Nations.
This will describe in general terns the goods and works to be financed under the project, provide an
address for interested parties to indicate their wish to be advised when bid documents will be available
and will alert interested parties to subsequent announcements. The General Procurement Notice will be
published by the PDU and forwarded to the Bank for review and submission to Business Development.
39.   Follow-up General Procurement Notices would be placed by the PDU in Business Development
when the bidding documents are scheduled. The Notices would also be circulated to diplomatic
commercial representatives in Moscow, and published in one or more national newspapers. These would
provide more detailed information, including the date the bid documents would be available, and an
address to which interested suppliers could refer.
40.   Procurement Scheduling The grouping of the items to be procured into bid packages will be
prepared and the procurement scheduled by the PDU with the assistance of a consultant. The schedule
may be subsequently modified in consultation with the procurement agents when the agent is selected ani
when the PDU is fully staffed.
41.   Bid Document Preparation The World Bank's standard Bidding Documents for Procurement
of Goods will be the principal document used, although the Bidding Documents for Procurement Works



137                                ANNEX 10
Page 11 of 25
(Smaller Contracts) and the Bidding Documents for Procurement of Works, Major Equipment and
Installations, would be used in seed processing and market facilities.
42.   The technical specifications and any technical requirements to be considered in bid evaluation
would be the responsibility of the end-users, in consultation with the PDU and CIUs, with the assistance
from consultants. The procurement agent would be expected to review and comment on the technical
specifications in order to reflect any commercial considerations. On the other hand, the agent would
prepare the commercial portion of the documentation, with comments from the end-users, CIUs and the
procurement specialist in the PDU. The final documents would be reviewed by the PDU and the Bank,
as required.
43.   Effective warranty service, regular maintenance with spare parts, and consumables peculiar to
the equipment are important. Therefore, the specificaticns are expected to require the suppliers to
provide such service for the duration of the project, where such requirements are appropriate to the goods
being purchased. This would apply especially to the computer related equipment, which would also
provide for technical upgrade to equipment and software following .ritial purchase.
44.   Advertising As the procurement packaging and scheduling proceeds, updated notices of the
bidding opportunities would be advised through advertisement in one or more national newspapers of
wide circulation, circulars to local commercial diplomatic representatives, and notices to those who had
responded to General Procurement Notices.
45.   Bid Receipt and Bid Openn  The bidding documents would specify the place and final time
for bid submission. The trading organizations would provide secure receptacles into which bidders could
msert their offers and be assured they would remain secure until bid opening. The organizations would
open the bids at a place pre-notified, ensure a bid guarantee had been included, and read aloud the total
price of the offer. Any protests by the representatives present would be noted and forwarded to the Bank.
The minutes of bid opening would be prepared immediately by the organization. The bidders or their
representatives could attend the bid opening.
46.   Evaluation of Bids The bids would be evaluated by the procurement agent in consultation with
the staff of the PDU and the end-user. Where elements other than price were to be a factor in the award
selection, these would be taken into account as prescribed in the bidding documents. An evaluation report
would be prepared with specific recomnmendations for contract awards by the agent. The report would
be submitted to the PDU for review and forwarding to the World Bank for its review as set out in the
Loan Agreement, or as subsequently agreed with the Bank.
47.   Contract Finalization After the Bank has expressed no objection to the contract award where
this was required, the contract would be finalized. Contract effectveness would require a letter of credit,
as the most probable method of payment, to be opened in favor of the supplier, and the deliyery of the
performance securities from the supplier/contractor as required by the bidding documents.
48.   Monitoring Conract Execution The agent would monitor the delivery of the goods, arrange
for receipt and inspection at the place of delivery stipulated in the purchase contract, arrange customs
clearance, and manage any further local transportation or distribution that might be necessary for the
goods to reach the end-user. If third party inspection were necessary, this would be arranged by the



138                                ANNEx 10
Page 12 of 25
Agent by using the services of an independent agency established for this purpose or, where more
suitable, by an inspection by a representative of the end-user.
Procurement Other Than ICB
49.   Limited International Bidding Where all eligible specialized suppliers are confidently known,
or in certain minor procurement where time or the amount of the purchase did not permit/warrant
international advertising, a limited number of eligible suppliers can be invited to submit bids. The same
bid documentation would be required, and identical bid opening, evaluation and contract finalizing
procedures would be followed as for ICB. The use of such a procurement procedure must be agreed with
the Bank.
50.   International Shopping  For small amounts of purchases or where special circumstances,
generally of an urgent nature arose, bids could be requested informally but in writing from at least three
sources from three different Bank member countries. An evaluation report should be prepared, listing
the offers received and explaining the reason for the choice, with an explanation of the reason for using
international shopping. The use of this procurement procedure must be agreed with the Bank. An
example of the document that might be used is to be found at the end of this Annex.
51.   Sole Source Prom ment In clearly justified instances, and with the concurrence of the PDU
and the World Bank, purchases could be made from a single source, the original equipment supplier.
Tlhe applicability of this procedure in any particular case must be agreed with the Bank..
52.   Consultant Selection The selection of consultant firms for assignments would follow the
competitive proposal selection process outlined in the Guidelines Use of Cnnsultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). 'The TORs as well as the
credentials of the proposed individual consultants or firms should be satisfactory to the Bank.
RESONSIBILTEs OF PROcuREmENT AGEN1s
53.   The procurement agents will be responsible for carrying out procurement for and on the behalf
of end-users in accordance with the procedures outlined in the World Bank Guidelines Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and as specified in the Loan Agreement with the Borrower. The term
procurement agents is usxd to mean an organization with expert and experienced staff which has wide
knowledge of and experience with international commercial practices of goods generally similar to the
items to be procured. The Agents must be capable of providing the various support services required to
effectively conduct procurement activities. For procurement carried out according to International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures the procurement agent, in consultation with the appropriate
technical staff of the MOAF or private enterprises and in consultation with the PDU, will:
(a) Arrange advertising and provide information to interested suppliers;
(b) Prepare the bidding documents in detail, using standard bidding documents issued by the
World Bank, with appropriate adjustments to accommodate the individual procurement
packages. The technical specifications will be prepared by MOAF staff or experts from
private enterprises, with the assistance of consultants, as may be necessary to reflect project



139                                 ANN    10
Page 13 of 25
needs effectiveiy and economically. Submit the bidding documentation to the PDU for
review by the World Bank;
(c) Distribute/sell bidding documents to prospective bidders at a nominal price, any excess
beyond reproduction costs are to be credited to the PDU's account;
(d) Provide clarifications in response to the queries of potential bidders;
(e) Conduct the bid opening process and prepare Minutes of the Bid Opening;
(f) Organize a bid evaluation committee which would include, among others, representatives of
the staff/consultants who prepared the technical specifications. The award recommnendations
would be based solely on the criteria contained in the bid documents. Prepare an evaluation
report with recommendations for awards. This report shouid contain any comments that
members of the evaluation committee wish to make. Submit the evaluation report for review
by the PDU and/or Bank, as may be required.
(g) Finalize the contract, folow-up and monitor deliveries, and, ensure payment in accordance
with the contractal terms;
(h) When required, arrange pre-shipment inspections, either by third party inspectors or
tepresentatives of the end-user; and
(i) Receive goods at the point of delivery, clear customs and arrange delivery, or confirm that
it is arranged by the end-user, to the proper destination.
54.   For non-ICB procurement, the procurement agent will, in consultation with the end-user and the
PDU, foUlow the appropriate procedures as specified in the Loan agreement and in accordance with the
Procurement guidelines.
55.   The procurement agents will be responsible for contract administration and will:
(a) Collect and copy to the PDU docmenton such as inspection certificates, certificates or
origin/manufacturer, manufactuers/suppliers guarantees, bills of lading, beneficiary
insurance certificates, and invoices;
(b) Maintain in coordination with the PDU, accounting and financial management and handle any
warranty and insurance claims;
(c) Assist the PDU in the preparation of withdrawal application from the loan funds with the
required supporting documentadon and assist in ensuring payment to the suppliers; and
(d) Submit periodic progress reports to the PDU and the end-user.



140                                ANNEX 10
Page 14 of 25
EVALUATION PROCEDURE FOR PROCUREMENT AGENTS
56.   The assignment comprises the following main tasks:(i) full range of procurement services for
International competitive Bidding (ICB) and other forms of international procurement; (ii) contract
administration, and (iii) reporting and distribution and monitoring activities.
57.   The proposal from the candidate procurement agents would comprise the following:
(a) description of the organization including:
(i)  its charter and most recent balance sheet,
(ii)  the volume of the firm's international procurement for the past three years, and
(iii) the finn's experience in the purchase of items similar to the ones proposed;
(b) the experience of the staff the firm proposes to use for the assignment, including their
proficiency in English;
(c) a description of how the firm proposes to conduct the assignment, i.e., the organization and
procedures to be followed; and
(d) the proposed fees as discussed below.
58.   The remuneration will be on a commission basis. The commission will be calculated as a
percentage of each contract placed on a slab basis, at the rate of exchange on the date of contract. The
fees should be quoted for the following range of contracts: up to US$100,000; from US$100,001 to
US$500,000; from US$500,001 to US$1,000,000; from US$1,000,001 to US$5,000,000; from
US$5,000,001 to US$10,000,000; and over US$10,000,000. Please note that the financial proposal
should be submitted in a separate sealed envelope. The mix of contracts for the comparison of the fee
schedules should reflect the anticipated mix in the procurement to be undertaken.
59.   Proposals will be evaluated in a two-stage procedure which include (a) an evaluation of the firm's
experience and procurement plan, and, subsequently, (b) an evaluation of the firm's fees. For the
selection of procurement agents only, the experience and procurement plan could be awarded a weight
of 60 percent and the fees 40 percent.
PROC)REMET CONTRACrS
60.   The proposed procurement contracts for individual components are summarized in Annex Tables
10.5-10.9.



141                                        ANNEX 10
Page 15 of 25
Annex Table 10.5: Proposed Procurement Contracts for Market Infrastructure Development
Component
Tora Co8t
td   Mct&od of             _        Ajo AMdv1ta. Dae
Wo*/gsoods          Natw  of Paap              US$ mons Procurement Isu Dw's Bids Dw Conbuc Award Compkon
War¢k
Moscow City
FV Bas I         1. Bldg 19 ground flooramnut        0.581    LCB
2. Construct Mini Market            1.187    ICB          Bid with items 27,29.
3. Upgade HygSno                    0.051     LS
FV BaD    2     4. Construct Mini Market             1.662    ICB          Bid with Iam 30,33.
5. Recon. cld storage               0.227    LCD
6. Rocon. new vog. packAg facil.    0.100    LCB
7. Upgrade Hyg SenelSanln           0.050     LS
FV BaD    3      8. Construct Mini-wholeadle mark    3.705    ICB          Bid with *its 34,37.
9. Recon. Veg. pacing fanii         0.031     LS
10. Upgrade cold storag             0.072     LS
11. Renovation Cash & Cany mak      0.167    LCB
12. eneral ite renewal              0.139    LCD
13. Recons    Ofllce buiding        0.022     LS
14. Upgrade HygIene/SanItatio       0.051     LS
Moscow Oblast  15. Extnal Paveme                     0.227    LCB
16. Coldtoranp and awaing          12.080    LCB          Did with *its 38, 39, 41, 42.
17. Storag bins                     0.830    LCB          Bid with item 42, 43, 44, 45.
18. LIghtng power, heating          0.259    LCB
19. Water spply & flre fitg         0.196    LCB
20. Drai,    , outsidO              0.289    LCB
21. Fenc and gates                  0.013     LS
22. Miscellaneous                   0.2S      LS
Belgorod Obla8t 23. Cosuctupgrade cas/               0.431    LCB
24. Constc old sorP                 2.424    LCD       Q2 995    Q3 95      Q4 '95      Q2 '97
Sub-Total                      24.820
God
Moscow City
PV Dm 1          25. B1dg 19 air mix, fans et.       0.168    LID       Q2 '95    Q3 '95     Q4'95       Q2 97
26. Compres  shop equip             0.602    ICB       Q2 9S    Q3 '95      Q4 '95     Q2 '97
27. Mini Market cons1trctIon        1.203    ICB       Q2 '95    Q3 '95     Q4 '95      Q2 *97
28. Upgrade HyS on                  0.084     IS       Q2 95    Q3 '95      Q4 '95      Q2 97
29. Desn & EngInerig                0.320    LIB       Q2 '95    Q3 9S      Q4 '95      Q2 '97
PV BaD 2         30. Mi  market rfdrig. equip        0.589    ICB       Q2 '95    Q3 95      Q4 '95     Q2 $97
31. EqUip. new veg. pacig facil.    0.385    LIB       Q2 '95    Q3 '95     Q4 '95     Q2 '97
32. Upgrade Hyglene/Sanlation       0.084     IS       Q2 '95    Q3 9S      Q4 '95     Q2 '97
33. Depg & Engineering              0.159     IS       Q2 '95    Q3 '95     Q4 '95     Q2 '97
FV BaD   3       34. MIni wholesae tegdg. equip.     0.62    ICB        Q2 '95    Q3 '95     Q4 '95      Q2 '97
35. Equip. packng fiide             O.577    ICB       Q2 '95    Q3 '95     Q4 '95     Q2 '97
36. Upgrade Hygieon/SanItIn         0.084     is       Q2 '95    Q3 '95     Q4 '9      Q297
37.Despn & Engineering              1.78    ICB        Q2 95    Q3'95       Q4'95      Q2'97



142                                       ANNEX 10
Page 16 of 25
Annex Table 10.5: Proposed Procurement Contracts for Market Infrastructure Development
Component (contd.)
TOWa Coad
Fate   Metodof                    Me).irAc          Dam
Works/Goods        Natue of PacWk             US$ milUliao  P,om a  Isus Dow'a Bds Dw Coact Aw ardmptio
Moscow Oblast 38. Refrigeratng systm               4.722    ICB       Q2 '95    Q3 '95    Q4 '95      Q2 '97
39. Gradlag & packiAg macIdi       1.805    ICB       Q2 '95    Q3 '95    Q4 '95     Q2 '97
40. Installation                   0.653    ICB       Q2 '95    Q3 '95    Q4 '95     Q2 '97
41. Deaignp &  gwlng               0.463    LIB       Q2'95    Q3'95      Q4'95      Q2'97
Belgorod Oblast 42. ConstructAupgrade FV bas       0.540    ICB       Q2 '95    Q3 '95    Q4 '95      Q2 '97
43. Construct cold storage         3.008    LIB       Q2 '95    Q3 '95    Q4 '95     Q2 '97
44. lnstalatIo                     0.532    ICB       Q2 '95    Q3 '95    Q4 '95     Q2 '97
45. DIedgna & ngIneag              0.070     IS       Q2 '95    Q3 '95    Q4 '95     Q2'97
Sub-Totad                      18.228
Component Total
ICB                               19.96
LIBILCB                           22.29
LS                                 0.32
IS                                 0.48
Total                             43.05



143                                         ANNEX 10
Page 17 of 25
Annex Table 10.6: Proposed Procurement Contracts for MIS/FIAS Components
Total Cost
Estiatet    AModoaddof                  MjorAWvies Dat
Ymr Nature of Pacag              8mion    Punwat how Dov's  Bids Du   Contra Award Compledon
1995 Computer ystems hardware,
Power Suplies and Printe      4.45        ICB       Q3 '94      Q4 '94      Ql '95      Q2 '95
Computer systm Software         2.38       ICB        Q3 '94      Q4'94       Ql '95      Q2 '95
Computer services & supples     0.48        ICB       Q3 '94      Q4 '94      Ql '95      Q2 '95
Communication Equipment         0.86        ICB       Q3 '94      Q4 '94      Ql '95      Q2 '95
Photocopy MachIns               0.73        ICB       Q3 '94     Q4 '94       Q1 '95      Q2'95
Vehies                          1.27       ICB        Q3 '94     Q4 '94       Ql '95      Q2 '95
Sub-total                      10.16
1996 Computer sysew hrdwar,
Power Supples and Printe      6.78        ICB       Q2'95       Q3 '95      Q4 '95      Ql '96
computer systems software       2.78        ICB       Q2 '95      Q3'95       Q4 '95      Q1 '96
computer services & supplis     0.64        ICB       Q2 '95      Q3 '95      Q4 '95      Ql '96
Communicaton Equipment          1.81        ICB       Q2 '95      Q3 '95      Q4 '95      Ql '96
PhocpyW Maciws                  1.45        ICB       Q2 '95      Q3 '95      Q4 '95      Ql '96
Vehices                         2.62       ICB        Q2 '95      Q3 '95      Q4 '95      Ql '96
Sub-total                      16.08
1997 Computer yems hardw .
Power Suls and PrIte          6.03        ICE       Ql '96      Q2'96       Q3 '96      Ql '97
computer sytem software         1.89       ICa        Ql '96     Q2 '96       Q3 '96      Ql '97
Computer srvis & supplie        0.73        ICB       Ql '96      Q2'96       Q3 '96      Ql '97
Communication EquIpment         3.09       ICB        Ql '96      Q2 '96      Q3 '96      Ql '97
Photooopy Mahis                 2.08        ICE       Ql '96      Q2 '96      Q3 '96      Ql '97
Vehices                         3.28       ICB        Ql '96     Q2 '96       Q3 '96      Ql '97
Sub-totd                       17.09
1998 Computer syes hrdware
Power Suplies and Print       0.40        ICB       Q1 '97      Q2 '97      Q3 '97      Q1 '98
Computer sytems softwar         0.07        ICB       Qt '97     Q2 '97       Q3 '97      Ql '98
Computer service & suppUes      0.70        ICB       Ql '97     Q2 '97       Q3 '97      Ql '98
Communication Equipment         1.29        ICE       Ql '97     Q2 '97       Q3 '97      Ql '98
Photoopy Malines                0.12        ICB       Ql '97     Q2 '97       Q3 '97      Ql '98
Vehicle                         0.96        ICB       Qt '97     Q2 '97       Q3 '97      Qt '98
Sub-toa                         3.55



144                                         ANNEX 10
Page 18 of 25
Annex Table 10.6: Proposed Procurement Contracts for MIS/FIAS Components
(contd.)
Tol Coat
Etiatdc      Metho Of                   Major Actviti Date.
Year Natue ofPackg              USSm mili     Fo _romt Iw Doc'.  Bids Du  Cnract Award Compleion
1999  Computer Sytem Hardware,
Accessories and Supplies      0.73        ICB       Q1 '98      Q2 '98      Q3 '98      Ql '99
Vebicls                         0.18       ICB        Ql '98     Q2 '98       Q3 '98      Q1 '99
Sub-total                       0.91
Component Total
ICB                 47.80



145                                         ANNEX 10
Page 19 of 25
Annex Table 10.7: Proposed Procurement Contracts for FIAS Component
ToWl Coat
Nature of                Estimaod    Method of             Majr Activiides stes
Year   Psacage                 USSiions   Prcrat Issue Do's  Bids Due Contra Award CompleQao
1995   Video Studio Equipment &
A"cssories                 7.58       ICB       Q3'94      Q4'94       Ql '95      Q2 '95
Video Equipped Vehicle       0.28        IS
VehIles                      0.22        IS
Video materials              0.09        IS
Printing Matia               0.92       ICB       Q3 '94     Q4'94       Q1 '95       Q2'95
Tadning Equipment             0.33       LIB
Mobile Units                 0.11        Is
Training Aids                0.14        IS
Display equip/materials       0.21       IS
Infonnratin NMaterias         0.38       LIB
Sub-Total                    10.25
1996   Filming Equipment              0.28       IS
Video Studio Equipment &
Accasories                 1.10       ICB       Q2 '95     Q3 '95      Q4 '9S      Ql '96
Video mateials               0.06        IS
Prting Matia                 0.58        ICB      Q2 '95     Q3'95       Q4'95        QI '96
Training Equipment            0.50       ICB      Q2 '95     Q3 '95       Q4 '95      Ql '96
Training Aids                 0.21       iS
Vehicles                      0.21       IS
Display equip/mateials        0.07       IS
Information Materials         0.24       IS
Sub-Total                     3.24
1997   Video Studio Equipment &
Accessories                1.11       ICB       Ql '96     Q2 '96      Q3 '96      Ql '97
Video materias               0.06        IS
Display equip/materls        0.04        IS
Training aids                 0.34       LIEB
Information Materials        0.24        IS
Sub-Total                     1.78
1998   Printing Maial                 0.55       ICB      Ql '97     Q2 '97       Q3 '97      Ql '98
Video materials               0.06       IS
Display equip/materials      0.04        IS
Traning aids                  0.33       LIB
Information Materials         0.24       IS
Sub-Total                     1.22



146                                      ANNEX I
Page 20 of 25
Annex Table 10.7: Proposed Procurement Contracts for FIAS Component (contd.)
Total Coa
Natwoof                     a       MdSof              M4  Antivie dat
Yesr   Pase                  US$milo       Pauramat hao Dow's B   Dwu  Contaot Awd Completion
1999   Prlnting Matal               0.29       Is
Video materals              0.03       Is
Diplay equip/materials      0.03       IS
Voiclas                     O.OS       Is
Training aids               0.33      LIB
Informatio Materls          0.24       IS
Sub-Total                   0.95
Component Total
ICB                       12.34
LS.                        1.71
IS                         3.44
Total                     17.49



147                                        ANNEX 10
Page 21 of 25
Annex Table 10.8: Proposed Procurement Contracts for Seed Industry
Development Component
Total Cost
Ntre of                Estiaed  Mehod of                  Msjo, A.JOs Dot"s
Works/Goods&  Pd*a                 U$Jmnts Puremt lasueDos BidsDue ContatAwwd Competion
Tunkey         MaizeSeed UakI             10.53    ICB       Q3'94    Q3'94        Q4'94       Q4'95
Maize Seed Unk2            10.53    ICa       Q3'94    Q3'94        Q4'94       Q4'95
MaizeSeed Unl3             10.53    ICB       Q3'94    Q3'94        Q4'94       Q4'95
MaizeSeed Unk4             10.53    ICB       QI '9     QI '9S      Q2'95       Q2'96
MalzeSeed Unk5             10.53    ICB       Ql'95    Q1'95        Q2'95       Q2'96
Maiz Seed Unit 6           10.53    ICB       Ql '95    Ql '95      Q2 '9S      Q2 '96
Maize Seed Unit 7          11.09    ICB       Q3'95    Q4 '95       Ql '96      Ql '97
Malie Seed Unk 8           11.09    ICB       Q3 '95    Q4 '9S      Ql '96      Ql '97
Sunflower Un I              8.07    ICB       Q3'94    Q3'94        Q4'94       Q4'95
Sunflower Unt 2             8.07    ICB       Ql '9S    Ql '95      Q2'95       Q2 '96
Foreign Equip. Maiz        13.05    ICB       Q3'94    Q3 '94       Q4 '94      Q4 '95
Forega Equip. Suna.         1.19    LIB       Q3 '94    Q3 '94      Q4'94       Q4 '95
Locd Equip. Maize           1.26    NBF
Subtotal                  117.00
Ins. Develop.   VehIles '94                0.06     IS       Q3'94    Q3 '94       Q4 '94      Q2'95
(hlemnaton                  0.06     IS       Q3'94    Q3'94        Q4'94       Q2'95
Computers '94               0.26    LIB       Q3 '94    Q3 '94      Q4 '94      Q2 '95
Sooeds                      1.08    ICB       Q3'94    Q3'94        Q4'94       Q2'95
main/Sge combines           3.64    ICB       Q3 '94    Q3 '94      Q4 '94      Q2 '95
VehkIles '95               0.70    LIB        Q3'94    Q3 '94       Q4'94.      Q2 '95
Veices'96                   0.12    LIB       Ql '95    Ql '95      Q2 '95      Q4 '96
Ansortedfordgn              0.04     IS       Q3'94    Q3'94        Q4'94       Q2'95
Assorted local              1.14    NBF
Seed LAbforign              0.86    LIB       Q3'94    Q3'94       Q4'94        Q2'95
Seed Lab loca               0.35    NBF
(ormntdon                   0.29    LIB       Q3'94    Q3'94        Q4'94       Q2'95
Varldylab                   0.64    LIB       Q3'94    Q3'94        Q4'94       Q2'95
Computesn'95                0.70    LIB       Q3'94    Q3'94        Q4 '94      Q2 '95
Subtotal                    9.94
Component Total
ICB                      119.27
LIB                        4.76
IS                         0.16
NBP                        2.75
Total                    126.94



148                                         ANNEX 10
Page 22 of 25
Annex Table 10.9: Proposed Procurement Contracts for the PDU Component
1994                        1995                        1996
TOt CostT Tot  c                                        Total Coat
NaMtue of                Etmae   Metbod of           Ftimate   Mctbod of          EFiaed  Metod of
Pake                  (SUSUmio    Procuement       USS mo   Proumet            USmliNs Prument
Vehicle                                                  0.028     Is
Compters/Priters            0.028      Is                0.042     IS                0.014      Is
Fax machines                0.003      IS                                            0.003      IS
Phdocopy machne             0.028      IS                                            0.014      IS
Misc. Equpment              0.014      IS                0.014     IS                0.014      IS
Total                        0.073                       0.084                       0.045
1997                        1998
Totd Cost                   Total Cost
NaSur of                 Estimatbd  M od Of           Etmaed  Metod of
Packg                 11$milos PourmeVnt           US$  gmlio  Procurem*nt
Vehicle                                                  0.026     IS
Comp/utrs(Printe             0.013     IS                0.013     Is
Fax machines                                             0.003     IS
Photocopy machine.
Misc. Equipment             0.013      IS                0.013     IS
ToWal                       0.026                        0.055
Component Total
IS                0.283



149                                 ANNEX 10
Page 23 of 25
Attachment I
SAMPLE FORMAT FOR IRNATIONAL SHOPPING (IS)
Governnent of
Ministry of
Department of
Date
INVITATION TO QUOTE
To:
Gentlemen:
Regarding:
1.    You are invited to submit your price quotation (s) in a proforma invoice format for the supply
of the following items:
'i)
(ii)
(iii) _
2.    Information on technical specifications and required quantities is contained in Attachment 1.1.
3.    The Government of             has (applied for/received) a loan from the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development in various currencies and intends to apply the proceeds of this loan
to eligible payments under the contracts for which this invitation for quotation is issued.
4.    You may quote for any item under this invitation. Each item shall be evaluated and contract
awarded separately.
5.    Your quotations(s) in the required format should be addressed to:



150                                ANNEX 10
Page 24 of 25
Telephone:
Fax:
6.    The proforna invoice, in duplicate and in English language, should be accompanies by adequate
technical documentation and catalogue (s) and other printed material or pertinent information (in English
language) for each item quoted, including names and addresses of finms providing service facilities in
7.    The deadline for receipt of your quotation is
8.    Quotatioai by Telex of Fax are acceptable.
9.    Other Conditions of Supply are as follows:
(i) PRICES should be quoted in
Quotations in other currencies are acceptable but they will be evaluated after converting them
into _          at the exchange rate prevailing at the Central Bank of  on the
date of evaluation.
(ii) PAYMENT for your invoice will be made 100% against delivery documents, through in
Irrevocable and Confirmed L/C, opened by (name of the Bank in Purchase's country) in
favor of the supplier's bank.
(iii) DELIVERY: Prices should be quoted for delivery CIF  port for imported goods and
ex-factory for domestically supplied goods or CIP  , according to INCOTERMS
1990.
(iv) DELIVERY SCHEDULE: _    months/not exceeding -  months from L/C confirmation.
(v) WARRANTY: Goods offered should be covered by Mamnfacturer's warranty for at least 12
months from the date of delivery to Purchase. Please specify warranty period and terms in
detail.
(iv) ORIGIN: Goods offered should have their origin from World Bank member countries and
you will be required to fiunish a certificate of origin for each item for which you quote.
(vii)    VALIDITY: Your quotation should be valid for a period of 45 days from the date
of your quotation.
10.   Please confirm by fax or telex the receipt of this invitation and whether or not you will submit
the price quotations.
Sincerely,



lS1                                   AMU  10
Page 25 of 25
Attachment 1.1
TECHNICAL REOUIREMENTS
Project Name:
Name of Item:
Quantity:   _
TECHNICAL DETAILS:
1.    General Descriptions
2.     Technical Specifications
3.     Accessories and Attachments
4.     Tools or Other Required Items
5.     Maintenance Requirement
6.     Spare Parts Required
7.     Manuals
8.    Required Performance
9.    Warranty Specifications



152                                 ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 7
RussIAN FEDERATION
AGRICULTURAL REFORM LMPLEMENTATioN SUPPORT (ARS) PROJECT
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL 1REPORTING PROCEDURES
ACCOUNTING
1.    The accounts for the project include expenditures financed directly by the World Bank and
expenditures financed by the government agencies (project specific) and the participating private
enterprises (PPEs). As the financial reports would be classified into two categories: project specific and
participating agencies, the Project Development Unit (PDU) would consolidate and maintain financial
records from these two categories.
Project Specific
2.    The Component Implementation Unit (CIU) of the individual project component would have an
accounting and control system capable of reliably recording and reporting all financial transactions. This
system must consist of two ledgers; one for US dollar receipts and expenditures and another for local
currency Government appropriations and expenditures and must be operational when project expenditures
begin, capturing all transactions related to the project on a monthly basis.
3.    All disbursements from the IBRD loan must be recorded as receipts in the US dollar ledger, on
the day that the disbursement is made. Any Government Budget Appropriations must be recorded as
receipts for the month that they relate to, in the local currency ledger, and may not exceed the amount
recorded under expenditures included in the Project Component Cost Schedule for Government financed
expenditures.
4.    Project expenditures should be recorded as incurred following the same method used in capturing
receipts.
5.    The two monthly ledgers would be sent to the PDU, no later than ten business days after the end
of the month, to be reviewed and consolidated with the other component ledgers. The PDU will be
responsible for translating the local currency ledger to US dollar equivalents using an exchange rate based
on a formula to be agreed upon between the World Bank and the borrower prior to conmencement of
disbursement.
6.    Where circumstances indicate that documents are excessive, they should be filed by the CIU in
such a way and with PDU approval, that the PDU can access them easily.
Paricpating Private Enterprises
7.    The PPEs would provide to the PDU on a quarterly basis, unaudited accounts for the project
summarizing the cash receipts and expenditures, by component financed (i.e. civil works, equipment,



153                                ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 7
etc.). This account would not only include the expenditures directly financed by the World Bank, but
also the expenditures financed by the PPEs themselves.
8.    Each PPE would have an accounting and control system capable of reliably recording and
reporting all financial transactions. This system must consist of two ledgers; one for US dollar receipts
and expenditures and another for local currency expenditures financed by the PPE and must be
operational when project expenditures begin, capturing all transactions related to the project on a monthly
basis.
9.    All disbursements from the IBRD loan must be recorded as receipts in the US dollar ledger, on
the day that the disbursement is made. Any PPE contributions must be recorded as receipts in the US
dollar ledger, on the day that the disbursement is made. Any PPE contributions must be recorded as
receipts for the-month that they relate to, in the local currency ledger.
10.   Project expenditures should be recorded as incurred following the same method used in capturing
receipts.
11.   The two monthly ledgers would be sent to the PDU, no later than ten business days after the end
of the month, to be reviewed and consolidated with the other PPE ledgers and subsequently with the other
project components. The PDU will be responsible for translating the local currency ledger to US dollar
equivalents using an exchange rate based on a formula to be agreed upon between the World Bank and
thie borrower prior to commencement of disbursement.
12.   Where circumstances indicate that documents are excessive, they should be filed by the PPE in
such a way and with PDU approval, that the PDU can access them easily.
13.   The PDU will receive the monthly ledgers, in US dollar and local currency, from the individual
CIUs and the PPEs no later than the tenth business day of the following month. The local currency
ledgers will be translated to US dollar equivalents using an exchange rate based on a formula to be agreed
upon between the World Bank and the borrower prior to conmmencement of disbursement.
14.   The individual PPE accounts would be consolidated and reported as one, together with the other
sub-components, which in turn would be consolidated by component.
15.   The components would be consolidated in US dollar equivalents and filed to be used for reporting
purposes at the end of the quarter.
16.   As statements of expenditure (SOEs) and a Special Account (SA) will be used in this project, the
PDU would be requested to prepare and maintain, on a monthly basis:
(a) a schedule of SOE expenditures and amounts; and
(b) a summary of the SA account activity and reconciliation with the SA balance in the
commercial bank account and the Project Account.



154                                ANNEx 11
Page 3 of 7
FINANCIAL REPORTING
17.   The World Bank requires the financial performance and status of a project and borrower to be
monitored regularly during implementation, either during the period of loan disbursement or throughout
the life of the loan. As a result, the PDU w%ould provide quarterly financial reports to the World Bank
throughout the monitoring period. These financial reports would include the aforementioned two
categories: project specific and participating private enterprises.
18.   The PDU would provide quarterly and annual accounts for the project, and reporting on the cash
receipts and expenditures related to each sub-component, component and the overall financial performance
of the project. The accounts for the project would not only include expenditures directly financed by the
World Bank, but also the expenditures financed by the PPEs and the government agencies. These reports
would reflect actual sub-component activity versus planned expenditure for the most recent fiscal quarter,
fiscal year-to-date and project inception-to-date. The format and individual classification of receipts and
expenditures was designed and agreed between the Russian government and the World Bank during
negotiations (see Attachments 1 to 4) and will be distributed to the accounting officers in the PDU and
the ClUs and to the responsible accountants in the individual PPEs.
19.   The quarterly reports will be sumnarzed in a Consolidated Statement of Project Receipts and
Expenditures prepared using the US dollar combined amounts for each individual component
consolidation of each sub-component prepared using the US dollar combined amounts (the summation of
the US dollar receipts and expenditures, and the local currency receipts and expenditures translated to
US dollar equivalents).
20.   All quarterly reports are to be submitted to reach the World Bank no later than 30 days after the
end of the quarter. In addition to the unaudited quarterly accounts for the project discussed above, a
summary of the physical performance of the project showing actual and planned performance for the
quarter and accumulated to date. This would be presented in such a manner as to facilitate comparison
with the project expenditures. These reports would also include comments highlighting project progress
and significant bottlenecks, showing an action plan for remedial actions where necessary.



155                                  ANNi_
Page 4 of 7
Attach}nent 1
ARIS
Statement of Project Receipts and Expenditures
Draft List of Reports
Total Project Consolidation
1.1 Market Infrastructure Development
1.2 Farmer Information and Advisory Services
1.3 Seed Industry Development
1.4 Project Development Unit



SAMLE  STATEMENT OF PRoEcT REcEFrS AND ExPENDIrTR  FOR THE TOrAL PRO.IEcr
(US DOLLAR COMrNED)
Reporting                                                          For the Year Ended December 31. 1994
Component
Categories                                                     Farmer
Market          Information      Seed                Project
Infrastructure    and Advisory   Industry            Developmet
Develop,ement   Service          Development          Unit           Total
IBRD loans
Government Budget Appropriations
Participating Private Enterprise Contributions  _
Total Receipts
KXPENDITURES
Civil Works
Equipment and Machnery
import Dudes
Operating Costs
Training
Technical Assistance
Total Expenditures
EXCESS (DEFICIECY) OF RECEDIPS
OVER 'IT'IIUlRES                                               



157                                 ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Attachment 3
ARIS
Statement of Project Receipts and Disbursements
Draft List of Reports
Sample for Fanner Infonnation and Advisory Services (1.2)
US dollar Combined (Foreign and US dollar equivalent)
1.2.1 Total Component
Sub Components:
1.2.1.1                        Farmer Information Development
1.2.1.2.                       Farmer Information Dissemination
1.2.1.3                       Institutional Development
US dollar (Foreign Payments)
1.2.2 Total Component
Sub Components:
1.2.2.1                        Farmer Information Development
1.2.2.2                        Farmer Information Dissemination
1.2.2.3                        Institutional Development
US dollar equivalents (of RR)
1.2.3 Total Component
Sub Components:
1.2.3.1                        Farmne Information Development
1.2.3.2                        Farmer Information Dissemination
1.2.3.3                       Institutional Development
Russian Rubles (RR)
1.2.4 Total Component
Sub Components:
1.2.4.1                        Farmer Information Development
1.2.4.2                        Farmer Information Dissemination
1.2.4.3                       Institutional Development



ARIS
SPLE FOR FARMER INFORATION AND ADVISORY SERVICES
SAmpLE STATEMENT OF PROJECT REcE   AND EXENDffuES FoR TE T1OrAL COMPONENT
(US DOLLAR COMBN)
Reporting                                                           For the Year Ended December 31. 1994
Categories                                                                      Sub Com onent
Farmer              Farmer
Information         Information          Institutional
Development         Dissemination       Development          Total
RECEIPTS
IBRD loans
Government Budget Appropriations
Participating Ptivate Enterprise Contributions       __
Total Receipts
EXPENDITURES
Civil Works
Equipment and Machinery
Import Duties
Operating Costs
Training
Technical Assistance
Total Expenditures
EXCESS (DEFICIENCY) OF RECEIPTS
OVER EXPENDITURES
1. -.
_



159                                 ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 9
RussIAN FEDERATiON
AGRICULTURAL REFORM 1IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (ARIS) PROJECT
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT UNIf AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. General Implementation Arrangements
Organizations Responsible for Implementing the Project
1.    The executing agency responsible for implementation of the Project is the Ministry of Agriculture
and Food (MOAF). The Project Development Unit (PDU), established in the MOAF, would coordinate
all the work related to budgeting, procurement, disbursement, audit, reporting and monitoring of the
Project, including appraisal of all proposed sub-projects involving on-lending of funds to private
enterprises. Actual implementation of project components and sub-components will be the responsibility
of individual Component Implementation Units (CIUs) located within the departnents and agencies of
the MOAF, with the exception of private seed and market enterprises. The PDU director would report
to the Minister of Agriculture. The Minister would be advised by a Project Coordination Committee
(PCC).
Project Coordination Committee (PCC).
2.    The PCC would be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture. Other members of the PCC will
include a representative each from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, and other relevant
agencies. This Committee will assist and advise the Minister to effectively implement the ARIS project,
to establish priorities for agricultural projects; coordinate preparation and implementation of agricultural
projects; and approve, with clearance from the World Bank, sub-projects involving on-lending of Bank
funds to private enterprises.
B. PDU Organizaton and Management
PDU and Management
3.    The MOAF, with advice from the Project Coordination Committee, is expected to carry out the
project implementation functions thiough a Project Development Unit (Annex Figure 12.1) which has
been established in the MOAF. The PDU would be headed by a director appointed by the Minister of
MOAF who would be empowered to appoint staff and consultants, with concurrence from the Ministry
of Finance and the World Bank. The PDU operations would be divided into two departments: Project
Implementation Department (PID) and Project Preparation Department (PPD). Each of these departments
would be headed by a deputy director whose selection and appointment would be the responsibility of the
Minister, with concurrence from the Ministry of Finance and the World Bank.



160                                 ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 9
4.    The PDU director would be responsible for overall day-to-day decisions regarding PDU functions.
The two department deputy directors would be responsible for day-to-day decisions on matters related
to the functions of their departments, subject to concurrence of the PDU Director on critical issues.
Project Implementation Department (PID)
5.    The PID's initial responsibility would be to implement the ARIS Project. Staff with sufficient
technical experience and qualification would be selected to facilitate, guide, and monitor the
implementation of various components and sub-components of the project (Market, Information, and
Seed). Foreign consultants would be engaged for each component to provide necessary support. In
addition, support staft would be engaged as considered necessary.
Project Preparation Department (PPD)
6.    The PPD would be responsible for developing analytical capacity for identifying and preparing
new agricultural projects for financing by the international fine.  o institutions. This department would
have a regular and fixed-term staff of economists, financial ana  -, technical specialists, and experts in
agricultural project management and policy analysis. The PPD would also engage staff and consultants
with specific technical expertise to meet specific needs.
PDU Staffing
7.    The PDU staffing must include project management specialist, accountant and procurement
officer. The PDU would need a Senior Accountant with appropriate qualification and experience in
international accounting practices to be responsible for the introduction and management of all financial
and accounting matters required for project implementation and preparation. This appointment should
be made as soon as possible to allow participation in the design and development of the internal control,
accounting and reporting arrangements required to implement the Project. The Senior Accountant would
also be responsible for the administrative management of the Special Account and the disbursement
process for all agencies and institutions participating in the Project. The appointment of the Senior
Accountant should have the concurrence of the World Bank. The Senior Accountant should be supported
by at least one assistant accountant, who should also be experienced in international accounting practices.
8.    The PDU would also need a Procurement Officer trained in the procurement procedures of the
World Bank with the ability to train, direct and guide procurement activities of all the participating
agencies and institutions associated with the implementation of the Project. This appointment would have
the concurrence of the World Bank. The activities of the Procurement Officer will be supported by a
procurement assistant who should be fully versed in the World Bank procurement procedures. The PDU
would retain a lawyer (or law firm) with appropriate experience in Russian administrative law and
international commercial transactions to assist as required with legal issues. The selection of the lawyer
(or law firm) should have the concurrence of the World Bank.
9.    All the PDU staff (higher-level and support level) will be recruited locally. Most of the staff
appointments would be fixed-term and will be designed to complete a specific assignment. This is
essential to give the PDU the flexibility to change its staff skill mix to reflect the agricultural project
portfolio under preparation and implementation. All the critical PDU staff will be expected to have a
working knowledge of spoken and written English. The local PDU staff would be supported by foreign



161                                 ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 9
experts who would also train Russian experts in agricultural project managemnent, implementation and
preparation, including procurement and accounting.
Size of PDU Staff
11.   Following is an estimate of the number of staff required. The first column indicates the estimated
total number of staff required when the ARIS Project is under full implementation, including an active
Project Preparation Department. The second column indicates those positions thais need to be filled most
urgently to assure effective implementation of the Project.
Staff                                         Number of Russian Staff
When Fully Operational        At Loan Effectiveness
PDU Chief                                 1                            1
Accountant                                1                            1
Procurement Officer                       1                            1
Procurement Assistant                     1                            1
PID Deputy Director                       1                            1
Project Officers                          2                            2
PPD Deputy Director                       1                            0
Project Specialists                       4                            0
Secretaries                               5                            4
Iterpreter                                1                            1
Driver                                    1                            1
Sub-total                             19                           13
Number of Foreign Eanerts
Project Management Specialist             1                            1
Procurement Specialist                    1                            1
Senior Accountant                         1                            1
Sub-total                             3                             3
Grand Total                           22                           16
Terms of Reference for Selected Rusian Staff of the PDU
12.   All the critical Russian PDU consultant and support staff must have good communication skills,
both oral and written, in the English language. Following is a summary of the most important additional
qualifications and skills required:
PDU Director. The PDU Director will have responsibility to direct, oversee, and coordinate the
management and implementation of the Project. Therefore, the Director must be a specialist in



162                                ANNEx 12
Page 4 of 9
project preparation and project implementation, should have one or more advanced degrees in an
agriculture or management-related field, and must have had at least 10 years relevant experience
in managing complex programs or projects.
Accountant. The Accountant will review for consistency with Project and World Bank
procedures the withdrawal, or disbursement, applications prepared by component project
implementation units before sending them to the Senior Accoumtant for signature. The
Accountant should be experienced in international accounting practices.
Procurement Officer. The Procurement Officer should have been trained in the procurement
procedures of the World Bank and should have the ability to train, direct and guide procurement
activities of all the participating agencies and institutions associated with the implementation of
the Project. The Procurement Officer will be assisted for the first six months by foreign advisers
who are familiar with World Bank procedures.
Procrment Assistant. The Procurement Assistant should be fuHly versed in the World Bank
procurement procedures. A major duty will be to provide practical assistance to procurement
agents.
PED Deputy Director. The Deputy Director for the Project Implementation Department will
oversee and facilitate implementation of the four components of the Project. The Deputy
Director, who will be the point of contact in PDU for the Heads of Implementation Units for the
four components, should meet as often as necessary with the Heads to learn what problems or
issues they face and to work out a plan of action to facilitate implementation. The Deputy
Director will also be responsible for assuring that the Implementation Units submit the periodic
financial and progress reports required by the World Bank, and will recommend disbursements
under the Bank loan. The Deputy Director should have one or more advanced degrees in an
agricultural discipline, and must have had at least five years' relevant experience in agricultural
project implementation.
Project Offlcers. The PID Deputy Director will be assisted by two project officers whose duties
will be to assist the four Component Implementation Units, as required, in the processing of
documentation related to budgeting, procurement, disbursement, and reporting.
PPD Deputy Director. The Deputy Director for the Project Preparation Department will be
responsible for overseeing and directing the identification and preparation of sub-projects and new
agricultural projects for financing by the World Bank and other financial institutions. The ideal
candidate would have had at least five years relevant experience in project identification,
preparation, and management.
Project Spedalsts. Short-term technical specialists will be drawn upon as required in the
preparation of projects. Depending on the nature of the project being developed, the project
preparation team might consist of economists, financial analysts, technical specialists, policy
analysts and experts in agricultural project management.



163                                ANNX 12
Page 5 of 9
PROJECr COMPONENT IMPLEMENTATION
13.   The implementation arrangements for each of the project components are shown in Annex Figure
12.2 (for the market infrastructure development component), Annex Figure 12.3 (for the farmer
information and advisory services component) and Annex Figure 12.4 (for the seed industry development
component).



164                                          ANNEX 12
Page 6 of 9
Annex Figure 12.1: Proposed Organization of the Project Development Unit (PDU)
Project
Coordination
Committee (PCC)
Minister of
Agriculture
and Food
--------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------________
i                                                                                                       i
I1  r
Director PDU                    Project Management
specialist
I                                                                                                       I __ 
l         I      Deputy                                                |       Deput
l          ~~~Director                                             I      Directori
,i        ~~PID (ARiS)                                              |       PPDi
NdW P&v P*jd kMfw*o D          _;aw   PP    flD. PpaiwDW



Annex Figure 12.2: Implementation Arrangements for the Market Infrastructure Development Component
Mlnbsy                    Deputy    ____________________________           MOAF                             MOAF
f       -----  _irtor                          Depucy Monister Dbrector
Finance                 PID (ARIS)
Agency Bank I
Moscow City     Moscow Oblast         Belgorod
Private          Prvate          Oblast Private                          MOAF                   MOAF Deparbtient of
Enterprises      Enterprises        Enterprises                       Computer Center               Prices and Prce
T------,                                              Moscow                    Po .cy Moscow
MOAF Dept of
... A riclt.ral                             Prce Monitorng
. t           'l    lAltural                                                 Senice Moscow
Marketing
Deparbnent         Agrlculture           Agdiculture                  Oblast        
I~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                          _ I
I~~ ~ ~      ~       ~      ~      ~ I-
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
D  DeparAmentrof  | Ag'c,tra lz
L    gDeatm    o                    Price Monitoring
I   Agriculture-Serce District    J -
Disrit t



166                                    ANNEX 12
Page 8 of 9
Annex Figure 12.3: Implementation Arrangements and Linkages Between
Agencies involved in FIAS Component
Deputy                             MOAF                          FIAS Advisory
IDi          |-R-S-              Deputy Mnister   |                 Committee
FHead - FIAS    |              j   MOAFCC,
IImplementation    --1                Moscow
Fed"ls    LWl_
MOAF Department of                                              | Russian Acas ery of
8cisnce and Technical    ARSiRiiMA              AKK<OR             Agricultural Sciences
Progress                                                    I Insaue of Cpernetics
a-blasVRayon Level I              fl v                     r                    I 7
MOAF OblasURayon        ARSRliIMA               AKR                    (nsttuts of
Diisions            affiliates            AKKO               Cybemetics affiliates
End Users                                                                        [
Pvate     1 Farms  Collectvoi   |   Ag[ -Processing      Farm Related        Household
Farms              Industry         Enterprises    |PlotsGardeners



167                                ANNEX 12
Page 9 of 9
Annex Figure 12.4: Implementation Arrangements for the Seed Industry
Development Component
ofisry                 Deputy                                  MOAF
Finance               PID (ARtS)                           Deputy Minister
web rd for             1nftWC ebmn
Erterpdo D Nebpmr£
AgencyBank                                     ------------    Crop Producion
Divsion
<1~~~ F-
GOSSORTKOMISSIAI
NaSonal Seed
Advisory Commnee
| National Seed  |



168                                 ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 5
RUSSlAN FEDERATION
AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (ARPS) PROJECT
AGENCIES INVOLVED IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
MIISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FOOD COMPuTER CENTER
1.    The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Computer Center (MOAFCC) was established as an
independent state joint stock enterprise owned by MOAF according to the resolution No. 142 of
November 1990. It is the principal computing center of the MOAF, with its new title of GVC
ROSSELKHOZ reflecting this responsibility. It has the legal privilege to purchase computers and related
supplies.
2.    The governance of GVC is based on the principles of self-management of a work collective on
the basis of the right of an owner to use its assets to satisfy the stated objectives. Its activities are guided
by the Law of the Russian Federation "On Enterprises and Entrepreneurial Activity". According to the
statutes, the main objectives of the MOAFCC are:
(i) To provide information services; establish and maintain centralized data base of the MOAF;
and purchase and operate computer hardware and software;
(ii) To develop, improve and implement appropriate software to process agricultural information;
(iii) To provide computer, communication and other information facilities and their maintenance;
and
(iv) To organize, coordinate and provide methodological advice to computer centers and other
organizations of the agricultural and industrial complex in Russia on the issues of
development, implementation and operation of the unified system of information and
computer support of MOAF.
3.    It has its own facilities in Moscow, with adequate air conditioning and power circuits to support
the planned ARIS servers and related peripherals. The MOAFCC has 8 progranuning specialists and
similar number of operational and support personnel. They have received clearance to expand the staff
to 25 persons. The MOAFCC staff, even though small in number, has the potential to become effective
through appropriate training.



169                                 ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 5
ALL RUSSIAN SCIENTIFIC AND RESEARCH INSrTUTuE OF INNOVATION ANI) MARTING
IN THE AGRO-NDUSRSAL COMPLEX (ARSSIIMA)
4.    The All Russian Scientific and Research Institute of Innovation and Marketing in the Agro-
Industrial Complex (ARSRIIMA, was established in accordance with the resolution of the Council of
Ministers of the Russian Federation (Order No 469 of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the
Russian Federation, of June 4, 1991). The Institute reports to the General Directorate of Science and
Technology at the MOAF and is located in Moscow. The Institute is a legal entity which enjoys rights
and performs responsibilities associated with its activities; has its own assets; independent balance sheet
and account. It has been designated to be a head organization and a methodological research center
dealing with issues of innovation and marketing in the system of agro-industrial complex in Russia. It
has affiliates located in various areas of Russia consisting of 38 branches in autonomous republics, 2
krays and 28 oblasts. All branches have legal entity status and have their own balance sheets. It has
about 200 staff members in a variety of disciplines. All the research works, services of the Institute are
made under direct agreements with the Chief of the Department for Science in the MOAF. The institute
is involved in a number of activities, the most important ones are:
(i) Identifying the priority areas and developing an appropriate system of managing the progress
in science and technology; preparation of economic and legal proposals to ensure efficient
state policies in science and technology and enhanced response of the agrarian economy to
innovations;
(ii) Providing agricultural consulting services in selected pilot areas;
(iii) Developing appropriate cost-effective arrangements for research and development works in
fundamental and applied sciences for the agro-industrial complex and development of
methods for evaluating economic efficiency of projects.
(iv) Carrying out theoretical, applied and experimental studies aimed at improving the efficiency
of the agricultural production related to savings in labor, fuel, energy, and physical
resources; efficiency of the production capacity through science and technology and, using
this as a basis for organizational, legal, economic, managerial decisions in collective and
state farms, private farms and other enterprises;
(v) Developing concepts and programs for adjusting the agrarian science to conditions of market
relations inside the country and its adjustment to the agrarian science of other sectors of the
national economy. Development of programs for formation and development of the market
infrastructure for the scientific and agricultural products.
S.    ARSRIIMA will play the most important role in the implementation of the FIAS component of
the ARIS project. Its staff has been actively associated with the preparation of the FIAS component and
were responsible for overall coordination. Given the institute's involvement in the information needs
assessment, the Institute is capable of providing necessary project support, training and technical
assistance for the achievement of project objectives.



170                                 ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 5
AKKOR - RuSSIAN ASSOCIATION OF FARMER ENTERPRISEs
AND AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE SOCIETrES
6.    AKKOR is a voluntary cooperative association of private farms, rural cooperatives,
partnerships and other newly emerging farm structures. It was established at the foundation congress
held in Moscow on January 23-25, 1990. The basic objectives of the association are:
(i) protection of public, socio-economic and personal rights and iinterests oi members of the
association in relation with state and other organizations;
(ii) provide its members with credit and material resources, including those allocated by the
G.vernment for the development of farming;
(iii) coordinate the actions in the interests of the farmers and participate in the
implementation of the land reform;
(iv) collective regulation of inter-farm relations;
(v) provide assistance to develop independrnt activities in production, procurement,
processing, marketing of agricultural products and primary materials; and
(vi) provide service and social welfare infrastructure to private farms.
7.    AKKOR has over 80 regional associations and farmer's unions, over a thousand rayon level
associations and more than 5000 small rural cooperatives. It represents the interest of about 300,000
private farmers. The president and the management board of the association are elected by the
congress consisting of representatives of AKKOR associations.
8.    AKKOR has oblast level administration offices and an office in each rayon. Rayon level
offices operate independently with locally elected councils. The chairmen, in addition to one
representative from the Administration and one from the Land Committee of rayon AKKORs, form
the council of for the oblast. The Oblast council sends three delegates to the All-Russia council.
There are about 10 to 15 full time staff who work at each oblast level AKKOR offices. The funding
comes mostly from trading operations through the supply of farm inputs and sale of farm produce.
9.    AKKOR obtains financing from the Federal Govermment, which is then allocated to the rayons
by the oblast councils on the basis of the number of private farners and their size. The rayon level
AKKOR offices in turn distribute the funds to the most profitable farmers. AKKOR has its own
newspaper which is produced in Moscow and sent to its members. In addition, there are regional
magazines and newspapers.
10    AKKOR is actively engaged in providing various types of information to the emerging private
farmer. Through AKKORINTER, it assists the private farmers in obtaining foreign technologies,
credits and investments, delivery of equipment, primary goods, materials and other commodities to
private farmers. It organizes exhibitions and fairs in various agricultural regions.



171                                  ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 5
THE INSTITUTE OF CYBERNETlCS (IC)
II.   The Institute of Cybernetics is one of the specialized institutes of the Russian Academy of
Agricultural Sciences (RAAS). Its main responsibility is to develop and provide the information
services of the RAAS. It was one of the key institutes responsible for the design of the
"Informatization programn for the Agro-Industrial Complex in the Russian Federation - 2000".
12.   The Institute is based in Moscow and consists of 8 research departments and 2 auxiliary
divisions. The institute works closely with a variety of RAAS institutes and its affiliatuons in the areas
of scientific and technical areas. The main functions of the Institute are: (i) carrying out systems
analysis of the agro-industrial complex, analyze transition issues on the basis of economic and
mathematical modelling in a variety of disciplines; (ii) development of systems to computerize
administration and economic management using computer technologies; and (iii) provide technical
support and establish systems to provide information services for the RAAS.
13.   The Institute of Cybernetics, in collaboration with the Institute of Informatic Problems, has
developed a variety of computer based resource materials, which are available in diskettes and on-
line. They include specially designed databases, spreadsheet templates, document clearinghouse and
skill development training materials. Given the initiatives already undertaken by IC, the ARIS project
will support the pilot project in Pskov (and possibly in Krasnodar) is expected to speed up the
implementation of the applications of these computer based information packages and provide an
opportunity to evaluate its cost-effectiveness and likely replicability in other regions.
STATE VARITAL TESTNG COMMISION (GOSSORTKOMSSUA)
14.   State Commission for Variety Testing and Registration (Gossortkomissia) was set up by
Decree No: 322, dated November 2, 1992 by the Council of Ministers of the Russian Federation.
Gossortkomissia (GSK) is a legal entity located in Moscow. It is authorized to use the official seal
bearing the national emblem of the Russian Federation. The property managed by GSK is property of
the federal government. Therefore, all property transactions need prior approval of the MOAF.
GSK is responsible for the registration, based on field verification trials for varietal merits of
germplasm, of all cultivated varieties, planting materials, including mulberry and silk worm strains.
Activities of the GSK are governed by the Constitution and laws of the Russian Federation,
Resolutions of the Congress of People's Deputies, Presidential Decrees, Directives and Orders, as
well as directives issued by the MOAF.
15.   GSK is managed by its Chairman who is appointed by the MOAF. The Chairman appoints
the Deputy Chairman, the chief accountant and all high level executive staff, including the heads of
the regions and oblasts. It has 70 skiff members in 10 divisions (about 7 members in each division)
at the Moscow office. GSK's functional organ is Gossortset (State Variety Field Testing Network)
which consists of Gossortstansia (owned testing stations), Gossort-Uchastok (rented testing plots), and
laboratories. Gossortset employs over 13,270 people in approximately 568 field locations and 11
laboratories.
16.   The mandate of the GSK is to: (i) otganize expert varietal testing to assess economic viability
of sub-projects; (ii) protect the state from dangers of pests and plant diseases originating outside the
country; (iii) maintain the State Register of Varieties; (iv) regulate procedures and terms for inclusion



172                                  ANNEX 13
page 5 of 5
of specific varieties in the State Register; (v) publish State Registered varietal lists for public
knowledge; (vi) issue the varietal quality certificate; (vii) issue the Certificate of Authorship; (viii)
consider proposals for and decisions on names of varieties; (ix) examine, elaborate, determine and
approve crop variety certification methods; (x) enters into agreements with internaLional seed agencies
fcr testing planting materials in Russia; (xi) compile and maintain a data bank on varieties tested and
their quality s:atus; and (xii) conduct training for its technical field staff.
17.   GSK has so far tested 3130 varieties of seeds, (about 2380 domestic and 750 foreign) in 691
locations (265 kolkhozes, 421 sovkhozes, and 5 testing stations). For corn hybrids, 110 domestic,
112 other CIS and 78 foreign varieties (predominantly from Hungary, Serbia, Austria and Germany)
have been tested. They are tested in 64 oblasts, in 179 locations. For sunflower, 45 Russian, 18
other CIS, and 18 foreign varieties (predominantly from France, Serbia,and Hungary) have been
tested.
18.   It is a self-sustaining organization and is supported through fees collected from seed testing
activities, farm production from testing farms and the sale of seeds (1.8 billion rubles in FY 92). In
addition, GSK receives budgetary support from the federal government (3 billion rubles in rY 93
under article 32 of the constitution, together wit:. e 00 million rubles for capital cost on bitildings). It
also ccllects fees for testing seeds from foreign agencies (about US$110,000 in FY 92).
STATE SEE INSPEctiON AGENCY (GOSSEMINSPEKTSIA)
19.   The Gosseminspektsia (GSI) was set up under Resolution No. 723, dated April 7, 1969 by the
FSU council of Ministers and under Order No: 342, dated April 23 1986, of the MOAF of RSFSR.
Currently, it works under the administrative control of the MOAF and Russian Federation.
20.   GSI is the central seed inspection organ of the state, responsible for seed quality control
services; testing of seeds distributed to the kolkhozes and sovkhozes in Russia; regulating the seed
quality a various stages of seeds production such as sowing, cultivation, harvesting, processing,
grading, treating, storing and distribution; setting up seed quality standards and testing
methodologies; issuing certificates after testing seeds on fields for genetic purity and in laboratories
for physical purity; rendering necessary assistance to seed procuring agencies with appropriate seed
quality testing; and for providLOg training to its office staff and field staff of kolkhozes and sovkhozes
to organize quality seed production. GSI is a member of the Inte. national Seed Testing Association
(ISTA) and strives to maintain international standards in seed testing procedures in Russia.
21.   GSI at Moscow has 5 divisions: (1) Standards and methodology; (2) Quality control; (3)
International testing system; (4) Metrology; and (5) Follow-up of New Techniques. There are 78
oblast level divisions and their corresponding 1713 rayon level sead inspection offices. Rayon
governments assume the responsibility for rayon level seed testing laboratories. Approximately
11,200 employees work in the GS1 network ir- Russia. Annually 15,000 to 16,000 tons of seeds are
approved by GSI and used by 23,000 farms over an area of 46 million ha. About 3 million seed
samples are tested annually. About 180,000 ha (including 15,000 ha of elite seeds) are registered for
seed production and inspection annually.
22.   GSI is a governnent agency run by the MOAF out of the federal budget. The oblast and
rayon level offices are budgeted by their respective local governments.



173                                  ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 12
RussIAN FEDERATION
AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (ARIS) PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND MONITORING TARGETS
MAIN IMPLEMENTATION FEATURES
1.    Project Development Unit: The establishment of the Project Development Unit and Component
Implementation Units for individual project components is the most critical step to begin the ARIS project
implementation (Annex 12).
2.    Training: The implementation arrangements for various training programs envisaged in the
project and described in Annex 7 should commence soon after Board approval of the project.
3.    Technical Assistance: The implementation arrangements for technical assistance to be provided
for the project and described in Annex 8 should conmmence soon after Board approval of the project.
4.    individual Components: The implementation phases, main features of implementation and the
monitoring targets for each component of the ARIS project are described in more detail in the following
sections.
MARKET INFRASRucTURE DEVELOPMENT
A. Market Information System (MIS)
5.    MIS design. Market infonnationi will flow primarily from rayons to oblasts. At the oblast ievel,
the local Market Information Section in the Department of Agriculture will collect and process local
information. The computer center at the oblast level will manage the database. The federal Market
Information Section in MOAF at Moscow will draw information from data-bases at oblast level and
supplement it by commodity exchanges, Goskomstat and international databases. MIS will be
implemented in phases over four years.
6.    Pilot phase (1993-94) The proposed MIS will be preceded by a pilot project in Kaluga Oblast
that is being assisted by the US Department of Agriculture (USDA). The pilot project would test some
of the MIS concepts and arrange training for key staff who will likely be used as trainers.
7.    Phase I (1995) In the first phase, three economic regions comprising about 26 oblasts will be
included. The number of rayons to be included will be 71. MOAF has agreed to conclude contracts with
at least 50 percent of the oblasts covered by MIS during Year 1 of the project prior to negotiations, which
will coJver the following aspects: (i) cost sharing -- office, furniture, transport, computers, and office
equipment; staffing; (ii) the staffing of MIS activities and responsibility for payment of salaries of staff;
and (iii) dissemination - logistical arrangements for dissemination of information through various media.



174                                 ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 12
The oblast and rayon governments will be responsible for efficient operation of MIS in their jurisdictions,
including data collection, processing, transmission and dissemination.While in the Central and Central
Chernozome (black soil) regions, one rayon per oblast will be initially included, in the North Caucasus
region, as far as possible, all rayons will be covered given their importance as major agricultural
producers in the country. Commodity coverage will be expanded to include inputs, all prices with main
grades and qualities, and price information to include their ex-factory and wholesale prices.
8.    Phase Ir (1996) In Phase II, MIS will cover all 11 economic regions with additional 44 oblasts
raising the total number of oblasts to 70, and rayons to 224. The MIS will begin to collect systematic
information on market arrivals.
9.    Phase III (1997) Phase m includes the establishment of a nationwide MIS. For information
collection, all 86 oblasts will be included, while the number of rayons will be restricted to 500.
Dissemination of the market information will cover the entire nation. The key features of the above
phases have been summarized following Annex Table 14.1.
B. Pilot Investments in Marketing Enterprises
10.   Sub-project Feasibility Studies and Imulemenation. All enterprises would complete feasibility
studies for the proposed investments during 1994 and 1995. These studies would be reviewed by the
PDU supported by local and foreign technical experts financed by the project. Most of the sub-projects,
identified for possible inclusion in the project, have been reviewed by the Bank preparation and appraisal
missions. Subject to the preparation of detailed feasibility studies, technical, financial and economic
analysis has been carried out for some of the typical subprojects. The sub-projects are expected to be
completed as per implementation phases reported in Annex Table 14.2.
FARMER INFORMATION ANm ADVISORY SERVICES
11.   The FIAS component has been designed to provide information to emerging farm organizations.
The FIAS centers, established at the federal, oblast and rayon levels, will have the main responsibility.
The establishment of these centers will be carried out according to the phases shown in the following
table. By the end of the project period, a total of 155 FIAS centers would have been established. These
centers would serve two purposes: (i) trained FIAS advisors would provide advisory services; and (ii)
as these centers would be well equipped with a variety of agricultural information, it will serve as the
primary source of agricultural information. In addition to the FIAS centers, appropriate agricultural
information would also be disseminated through multi-media channels. In this regard, the number of FIAS
centers, agricultural video productions, agricultural fairs and exhibitions and farmers training centers to
be established and implemented in different years have been summarized in Annex Table 14.3.



175                                            ANNEX 14
page 3 of 12
Annex Table 14.1: Key Implementation Phases for the MIS
Year         Phs                 Wmpe                     Prdcts                        Information
1993/   Pilot Project     Central Region       Outputs:                         Prices:
1994                     Kaluga Oblast         - Grains;                        - Farm gate prices, with
Assisted by      including five        - Livestock products: pork;        reference to grades and
USDA             rayons                 poultry; beef;                   qualities;
- Fruits and vegetables: applies;    - Processor buying and selling
potatoes; onions; cabbage;      prices; and
tomatoes; cucumber; and sugar   - Retail prices.
beets.
1995    Phase I:          - Central,           Outputs:                         Prices:
Regional           including 12        - Grains                        - Farm gate prices;
expansion to       oblasts             - Livestock                     - Processor buying and selling
four regions     - Central Black       - Fruits and vegetables           prices:
including 26       Soil including      - Dairy products                - Retail prices.
oblasts and 71     S oblasts           - Oilseeds                      All prices with main grades
rayon offices    - North                                               and qualities.
Caucasus          Inputs:
including 9        - Fertdlizer                     Prices:
oblasts            - Seed                           - Ex-factory prices
- Chemicals                     - Wholesale prices
- Machinery
- Further items to be specified
1996    Phase II:         All regions          Outputs:                         Prices:
Expansion to 70                        - All main outputs              - Farm gate prices;
oblasts in all   70 oblasts and about                                  - Processor buying and selling
regions          224 rayon offices                                        prices;
- Retail prices (in cooperation
Inputs:                            with Goskomstat).
- All main inputs
All prices with main grades
and qualities.
Collect additional information
on market arrivals.
Prices:
- Ex-factory prices;
- Wholesale prices.
1997    Phase ll:         All II regions       Outputs:                         Same as Phase U
Nationwide       including 86 oblasts.   - All main outputs
sysem            Number of districts
including 86     limited to a          Inputs:
oblasts          maximum of 500.
- All main inputs



176                                         ANNEX 14
Page 4 of 12
Annex Table 14.2: Key Implementation Phases for Pilot Investments in Marketing Enterprises
Moscow City              Moscow Oblast             Belgorod Oblast
Year              Fruit and vegetable         Cold storages for        Fruit and vegetable
bases                   vegetables                   bases          J
1994                                   Complete feasibility studies
1995                   Begin Implementation of sub-projects; expected completion of
sub-projects will be broadly as follows
1996                        1                          2                         1
1997                        1                          3                         1
Annex Table 14.3: Key Implementation Phases for The Farmer Information and Advisory Services
[Description of Actvity                    1994    1995TJ1996T_997_199Total
1. Establish FIAS Centers at
(i) Federal                               1                                                    I
(ii) Oblasts                               3       9        9       9                          30
(iii) Rayons                               5       25       40       55                        125
Cumulative Total                          9       44       92      156      156     156       156
2. Agricultural Video Productions
(i) MOAF Video Productions                        12       12       12      12       12       60
(ii) AKKOR Video Productions                       15415            15       15      15        75
Cumulative Total                                  27       54      81       108     135       135
3. Farmer Training Centers                           2        3             _      I
Cumulative Total                                   2       5                                   5
4. Agricultural Fairs & Exhibitions                   1       1  j    1      1I         I1       5
Cumulative Total                                   I       2        3       4        5   | 5
SEED INDUSmRY DEVELOPMENT
12.    The implementation of the seed industry development component consists of parallel activities on
the two sub-components i.e. (i) seed enterprise development through processing of sub-loans; and (ii)
implementation of institutional and policy framework.



177                                           ANNEX 14
Page 5 of 12
Annex Table 14.4: Key Implementation Phases for Pilot Investments in Private Seed Enterpiises
Description of Activity                 199}4     1         1996      1997      1998    1999         Total
I. Hybrid Corn Seed Plants
(i) Complete Feasibility Studies      3         3         2                                        8
(ii) Construct & Operate Plants                  3         3         2                              8
n1. Hybrid Sunflower Seed Plants
(i) Complete Feasibility Studies      I         1                                                  2
(ii) Construct & Operate Plants                  1         I                                        2
mI. Total No. of Seed Enterprises                  4         4          2                             10
Financed by Project                                                                          J
Annex Table 14.5: Key Implementation Phases in Seed Institutional Development
Description of Activity                            1994   1995    1996  1997 1=              19991  Total
1. Russian Seed Variety Registration Agency
(Gossortkomissia)
Upgrading of varietal testing stations            12      12                                       24
11. Russian Seed Inspection Agency
(Gosseminspektsia)
(i) Central Seed Training & Testing
Laboratories
(a) Moscow                                     I                                                 I
(b) Krasnodar                                          I                                         1
(ii) Regional Seed Testing Laboratories           50      160                                      210
i. TOtl No. of Laboratories & Stations               63     173                                       236
Annex Table 14.6: Key implementation Phases in Seed Policy
Activity                                                Year
1. Establishment of National Seed Advisory Committee                                          1994
2. Formulation & Implementation of National Seed Policy                                       1995
3. Review of Draft National Seed Law                                                          1995
4. Establishment of National Seed Association                                                 1995
5. Preparation of Enforcement Manual for Breeder's Right Law                                  1995
13.    All the participating hybrid corn and sunflower seed enterprises would complete feasibility studies
for the proposed investments between 1994 and 1996. These studies would be reviewed by the PDU
supported by local and foreign technical experts financed by the project. Most of the sub-projects
identified for possible inclusion in the project have been reviewed by the Bank preparation and appraisal
missions. Subject to the preparation of detailed feasibility studies, technical, financial and economic



178                                ANNEX 14
Page 6 of 12
analysis has been done for some of the typical sub-projects. The sub-projects are expected to be
completed according to the schedule indicated in Table Annex Table 14.4. The main features of the seed
institutional development are provided in Annex Table 14.5. The main activities for implementing of the
seed policy are provided in Annex Table 14.6.
GUIDELNES FOR REGIONAL PARTICIPATION
14.   The participating regions, namely, oblasts and republic governments (on their own behalf and on
behalf of rayons under their jurisdiction), should agree to implement Market Information System (MIS);
Pilot Investments in Market Development; Farmer Information and Advisory Services (FIAS); and Seed
Industry Development components in accordance with the objectives, concepts, procedures, and terms
and conditions agreed between the Bank and the Government (per Loan Agreement).
15.   For MIS and FIAS components specifically, the participating regions (including Moscow City)
should enter into an agreement with MOAF which will specify their mutual responsibilities with regard
to the implementation of the concerned component. These agreements will include oblast and city
governments' responsibility to pay for local contributions for the establishment of project systems and
facilities and their maintenance on a continuing basis.
16.   For Pilot Investment in Market Development and Seed Industry Development, the participating
regions (including Moscow City) should agree to expeditiously provide to private enterprises, necessary
administrative clearances (such as for fire safety, environment and labor safety), technical support and
facilities to prepare, appraise and implement the sub-projects in a timely and efficient manner and, if
required by PDU, any financial obligations and assurances as may be necessary for the completion of sub-
projects; their viable operations and sub-loan repayments.
17.   The participating regions (including Moscow City) will provide administrative support and
facilities to carry out project-assisted technical assistance and training programs. In particular, for MIS
and FIAS, the participating regions will assist in organizing the collection of market information;
development of fanner information; information dissemination arrangements; for security of computer
hardware, software and other materials provided by the project. For the seed component, the
participating governments will provide administrative support and facilities to strengthen seed inspection
laboratories; and varietal testing farms and stations.
18.   The participating regions must also agree to ensure the sustainability of the MIS, FIAS and the
institutional aspects of the seed component: (i) share the cost of establishing necessary offices and
facilities by providing in-kind support; (ii) provide budgetary support to operating these offices and
facilities beyond the life of the project; and (iii) use the revenues generated through cost recovery
measures implemented in the project for the maintenance and operations of these offices and facilities.
DETAIL  PROJECr IPLEMENTATION PLAN
19.   The broad implementation plans for each of the ARIS project components are developed in Annex
Figure 14.1 for the market infrastructure component, in Annex Figure 14.2 for the farmer information
and advisory service component and in Annex Figure 14.3 for the seed industry development component.



Annex Figure 14.1: Implementation Plan forth. Mprket Infastructure Dawlopment Component
'Row -_1_                                                                      1995        low      Ia             198       1QQ 4
#                            Task Name                           0231Q4 Ql 0Q2 3 Q4 Ql   Q2 JQ4     21            IQ103IQ4t 01 Q210310
2 Estboiosh Price Monitoring UnGa In MOAF, Oblast and Rayons
3 Setup Comput r Center ofmfices in Oblast
4  Phase I Obldsts a26)    i  ceae o
5  Phase Io Obiasts (43)
6  Phase ior Oblasts (16)
7 Prepare ICB/LIB Procurement Packages & Word  oank Review
8 Complete ICJCB Procurement
9 Organize Technical Assistance hr MOAF and MOACC
10 Date Transmission Sstem ReviewE
12 Rnfrvieofn Dissemination; Gradinga   & Standardkation;
13 Conduct MIS Traiinand P Toursm
14 Expand Product and Informfation COverae of MIS Developen
IS Introduce and Expand.Information Dissernination ArrancVements sa_ 
18IComplete Subpro. Feasiblibt Studies inclu. Prod. Resftrc. plans  
191  Moscow CibA                                                     2
201 Moscow Oblast u 
211  BeIgorod Oblast                                               E                        
221 PDU/WHB to approve subloamE3ns 
23 1Prepare LIBILCB procurement oackaages for approved loans   
24 reDre ank Review where necessarv _   
25I Complete LIBA.C8 Procurement Z 
;l2 C. InsMulOwlodl Qffisbamdll ll
28 Organize Technical Assistance                                    a111111111                        I
29 Reaional Studies in MWarketing o Grains, Livestock & Fruit & Veg.   aj  D      m     A    
31Prepare/omplete procurement for Equipment for MOAF -tE   l--2     :
32 Review of Commodty Exchange             _                                                                                         d  >,
33 Review of Product Grading and Standardkation                          1                                                               z
34Review of MONsRole in Market Development                          '..w.G?L  -.U.IIIII                                             O Z
3S Conduc Training and §IxdU Tours                                                                 M/ ,  ........    
1   6  Preparation 8 Issue of Public-ations on Market Development   _   |Ftt   fSw               w_2z    f&.S        



Annex Figure 14.1: Implmntion Plan for Me Marke Infratucture Development Component
'Raw                   Task Name                            99194   1995        1998       1997          1998    199
#TaskNiae                                                     03 0Q4 EQ2 a 0Q4 1102 03 0 Q1 Q2Q3 Q4 Q1 3 Q1Q2 Q         3 0
-3     __      _    _     _    __      _     _    _     _       _i   _____  i                        _____   
34I SuDervision/ReView
40 Supervision/Review            ._________
41 Supemislon/Review
42 MldTerm Rekew%    __N
43 SuDeisiontlReview 
44ISuperv8istionR8ViW                                                                                      __
46 ProJect Compleion Report
00
00
= ___         _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _                                                                         I
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  



Annex Figure 142: ImplementatIon Plan for the Fanner Information and Advisoly Services Component
oiw                                                          _ Nm1994              1995          1996          1997          1998          1999
# _____________________0                                        02 04   2301   0210304 011021034 Q1  020 4 021 3104 01 021 Q4  1 02103104 Q1
IA. Project Start-Up Acthfffes
2 Estab_hmert of Implmenftaion UnIts
3 Prourement of mihnmn essential equp.
4 Local ad Foreian Trainig of key sdaff
5 Proiect Lanch Workshop
7 B. Farmer Informaton Development
8 (IsAMherd o f  FIAS Cewters at
9     Federal Level
10     Obbst Level (3.9.9,Q h 94.95.96.97)
11     Rayon Level (525,40,55 in 94,95,96,97)
12 (ii) Provide Inform. and advisoy serdkesFed.,ObI., & Ray.)
13 (di) Tramin  programs for ad  vel FIAS offices and users m
14 (v) Organize TA for Har&aare & Softare Design
15 (v) TA for Legl review of copyrights & Dev. contract arrana.                                                                                            -
16 (vi)TAforFarmerlnform DevelPmer&Dissemination
17 (vi) Prepare ICBLIB procurement packages & Revew
18 (iM  Comee P       nerouemt Ient
19 (bd Match FISNIIS Prog. with X25 ret System
20 (x) Imprert Software appl. & Da& bases
21 (Do) Undetk Communication Sys. review
22 (m) Assess ast mletcom problen
23 Wxi Develop&TestsokLiionsforlestmie problem
24
25 C. Farmer lnfonraton Dissemination
26 Ow MInisy of AIrIIultIIe Video Center
27  Rerote & Esabish MOA Intl video center
28  Prepare Pcurmt packes & obtain equipmern 
29  Prepare agricultrW videoprograms
30  Copy and Dist. An. vdeo & Broadcast on TV
31    Esish Farmer Training CetersL
32  Organize Tran  rograms In Info. Develop;itssem.
33 inAKKOR Vdeo Center
34  Procure video and necessary equpmernt



Annex Figure 14.2: Implementation Plan forthe Farner Information and Advisory Services Component
RO                  TakNm                                1994-        1995    1    99          1997      119899                  _
#I                    Task Name                    Q04            4 01 320 03 04 011 02103 04 01102103 04 01 0 210 Q0 1 02103 Q4 41
35  Pre pe Ap. pm. for TV and dit to TraiinAKKOR cemtes                1
367 OOanexhiWi"ionsandfaimr
37
38 D. Plot Programs
39 OrganizEnrr. Info ceters & Wnr acr Tech. Prodjects      4                  M  u      Ml
40
41 E. SupervlslonflmplementatDon Review
42 lSuPerAwVevlw
43 SuersonftvRS elw
44 SupeI                                                         1     1n1Reve      I
45 MkM-Team Review
46 .LOSvlelwRev1ew
47, riaaidorVRevIw
48 IPrioj CwOmetio Repor
0Q
=    ___-'-___:________1110
=    __ ___ ___ _111__ _I



Annex Figure 14.3: Implementation Plan for the Seed Industry Development component
POW#  Tk1994             1995            1996            1997            199             19
Row #                    T______________________________       Q 04 Q0  Q2  3 104 Q1 02 Q3 04 01 02 Q3 04 01 Q2 03 04 01 02 03 04 01 02 03 04
2 Ps*d  evelopmntUnt                                                          TsE  a
3   Pfobd pfquatatbadvhors                                               i   h 
4 IPrie Lundied:
6   Pom  po Ad v  iss rs Re emied                                              s  ;
7   Advsors MobiRze
8 E_terpfSe Sub-Loan Processlng (1st Group)
9   FeasIbIly Sudis Reoeived
10   Vsbi  3 Sub-Loans EstablishdW
11   Fk&batn of Facity Desgn
12   PrpratIon Tender Docmen ts
13 TunK  FscU ty
14   Fank Revws Uid Documents
15   BIds bIssed
16   Bids Reoseed & Evaluted
17   Bank Reviews
18   Suppler Selected
19   RetroactIe Financng PerOd
20   Conract Awarded
21 LJC ssued
22 Processig FacUty ConsiicOt=on
23   SRO Prepwarati
24   Consrbuct  Pns Cornleted
25   CM Woel        
26   Equ   sat Inslalin
27   Training
2b   Commissionin
29 Entrdee Sub4An   Poesng (2 Gmrup)
30 Twn4(we Facslty
31 Prosesi  Facly Construcin
32 Enters Sub-Loan Processing (3rd Goup)
33 Ttrn4Key Facil_ty
34 Poceig Facly Cosuctn (3rd Group)
3_ POU InvsoTme- Counselor                                                                                                                                               (11or
36 PM)J Seed Technolog Advisor
37 In nt Trainn M                                                                                                                                                         °
38   AdcountineInes
39   Co4 TakdTGpOr   fr                                                                                                              |
,-0   Tod""ca To*I



Annex Figure 14.3: Implementation Plan for the Seed Industry Development component
_  _ _  _   t4   _   t15   -_ 10            1097           19        98   1
RS8                            TkNae                                             -  01 4   Q02 03 04 O0  03104 0Q1 Q2 Q3 04 01 02 03 04 01 02 03 041
41   Obseevaton Tour                                                                 wL
42   Sen*ter        __
43 bwesSnwtTtahiO bgII
44 I EhbIsImeiet NJSAC
45 IseedPfty Mvie- MMA
40 TANSA                                   . 
47 EstMA_amn NS                                                                     A|
a ftMftftwD%*Tw*_ fOt                                                         c =It m5 9EZ; =   E = 3Z1
49 InSUbaflDMal 0e Procreet 
50   PrepI_ m  Tender Docunlts
52   Bidsessued   B      d  
53   Bidsad & Evasd
54   Bu,k, Raves                      _1S
55   SusgirSelsdsd _,                          
56   Catntd Awarded
57T LC iesud
5? TAGonMMu (end.does)
_  1TA(_td9en*wPW           ss) _M lWU")L                                                            I           I_ 1 
6tT_ _ _ _    _  _   _  _   _  _ _    _ _    _ _    _                       l                  g   w  v =   3l    E   5  T   TF        5.
0:1 JT   owMPf            S"
64 MdTamReview
67 PreIa Coe       tlUe Ra ged                                                                                           ll            l
=                                  l  l           l  l       l           l  l  l  l  l  l  l  I~~~~~~~~~~~~
_ _ _.__    _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _…                                                                                       . li   . l5



185                                 ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 4
RUsSIAN 1FEDERATION
AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (ARS) PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN AND SCHEDULE
INTRODUCIION
1.    This project involves three distinct components with participation of different institutions and
enterprises at dispersed locations. Timely implementation and adherence to agreed project objectives and
activities would require an effective supervision plan.
PDU SUPERVISION
2.    The PDU is expected to play an important role in project supervision, since it is piLimarily
responsible for coordinating all the work related to implementation, budgeting, proct)rement,
osbursement, audit, reporting, monitoring and evaluation and appraisal of all sub-projects. It will prepare
bi-monthly supervision reports to be submitted to the World Bank for review. The component specific
project implementation uiiits in MOAF and local governments would be responsible for the day to day
implementation of the project.
BANK SUPERVISION
3.    Supervision Schedule The proposed Bank supervision plan and supervision schedule for the
project are sumnarized in Annex Table 15.1.
4.    Project Launch Workshop The main objective of the project launch workshop is to re-enforce
project implementation strategies of the various components. This would be carried out by holding a
project launch workshop in Moscow in July 1994. It will bring together various representatives from
institutions and enterprises responsible for implementation of each component. The main topics to be
covered would be: (a) detailed description of each component objectives, sub-components and detailed
features; (b) implementation schedule; (c) mechanism to obtain project funds, (d) procurement
procedures; (e) loan conditions and covenants; (f) PDU and Bank supervisory scope and content and (g)
monitoring and evaluation indicators.
5.    Supervision Missions Periodic Bank supervisions will be undertaken by the i.Bnk staff who have
been involve I with the identification, preparation and appraisal of individual components in order to
ensure conunuity. They will be assisted by appropriate technical experts. The supervisions will be
supplemented by follow up activities to be undertaken by the Agricultural Unit at the resident mission.
Local consultants will also ta used to supplement supervision efforts on a continuing basis. Although this
may likely result in higher than Bank average supervision coefficients at least during the first two years
of project implementation, the emphasis would be placed on combining supervision missions with other
Bank related activities to ensure cost-effectiveness and minimize manpower requirements.



186                                ANNEX 1S
Page 2 of 4
6.    The supervision missions will follow established Bank guidelines (Operational Directive No.
13.05). Thus, the Bank supervisions would focus on the following key indices:
(i)   implementation delays, cost overruns and disbursements;
(ii)  special account operations;
(ii)  audits and accounts;
(iv)  compliance with project development objectives, legal  covenants, project
management performance, availability of counterpart funds;
(iv)  compliance with procurement muidelines;
(v)   training and technical assistance;
(vi)  environmental aspects; and
(vii)  compliance with technical standards, sub-project management, financial health
of the private sector seed and marketing enterprises and management of
individual components.
7.    The implementation plan presented in Annex 14 will provide the basis for Bank supervisions,
which will be reviewed during negotiations.
8.    Mid-Team Review  A mid-term assessment of tht project status, design, objectives, detailed
fares, organization and management, expected benefits in relation to costs and implementation will be
caried out during the first quarter of 1997. The purpose of this assessment is to determine what has
worked and what hasn't, constraints to channelling funds, delivery of technical assistance and training,
Implementation bottlenecks, technical, organization and management aspects. Following this mid-term
review, appropriate changes, as required, both in scope and size, will be made to ensure timely
completion of the project and achievement of project objectives.
9.    Project Completion Report A project completion report will be prepared at the close of the
project in accordance with standard Bank guidelines.



187                                   ANNE  IS
Page 3 of 4
Table 1: Proposed Supervision Plan and Schedule for the ARIS Project
Approximate     Activity                     Expected Skill Requirement'             Staff
Date of lnut                                                                       Weeks
(mo/yr)
July 94          Supervision mission         Task Manager                              25
(Project launch)            Market Specialist
Extension Specialist
Seed Specialist
Financial Analyst
FLocurement Specialist
Disbursement Specialist
Institutional Dev. Specialist
Oct. 94         Supervision mission          Task Manager                              15
Market Specialist
Extension Specialist
Seed Specialist
Financial Analyst
Pf 3curement Specialist
Institutional Dev. Specialist
Jan. 95          Supervision mission         Task Mar.ager                             15
Market Specialist
Extension Specialist
Seed Specialist
Procurement Specialist
Institutional Dev. Specialist
April 952        Supervision mission         I ik Manager                              15
Market Specialist
Extension Specialist
Seed Specialist
Procurement Specialist
Institutional Dev. Specialist
(conmied)



188                                    X  15
Page 4 of 4
Aprimate        Activity                    Expected Skill Pequirement'            Staff
Date of Input                                                                    Weeks
(mo/yr)
July 95         Superision misreons         Task Manager                            153
Nov. 95                                     Market Specialist
March 962                                   Extension Specialist
July 96                                     Seed Specialist
Nov. 96                                    Institutional Dev. Specialist
March 972       Supervision mission (mid-    Task Manager                            25
term review)               Market Specialist
Extension Specialist
Seed Specialist
Finar:ial Analyst
Procurement Specialist
Disbursement Specialist
Institutional Dwv. S"ecialist
Jly 97          Survision missions          Task Manager                            153
Nov. 97                                     Market Specialist
March 982                                   Extension Specialist
Seed Specialist
Institutional Dev. Specialist
July 98         Supervision missions        Task Manager                            153
Nov. 98                                     Market Specialist
March 992                                   Extension Specialist
Seed Specialist
lnstitutional Dev. Specialist
July 99         Supervision mission         Task Manager                             15
Market Specialist
Extension Specialist
Seed Specialist
Institutional Dev. Specialist
Dec. 99         Supervision mission         Task Manager                             25
(and PCR preparation)      Market Specialist
Extension Specialist
Seed Specialist
Financial Analyst
Institutional Dev. Specialist
£Aitoal ski reqiements may emerge durng project implementation.
2     j1A0 iWudes a   al revims.
3 15 staff Wek for each supervision Mission.



189                                 ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 19
RUssIAN FEDERATION
AGRICULTURAL REFORM hMPLmNENTATI  SUPPORT (AIS) PROJECT
ECONOmiC AND FiNANCIAL ANALYSIS
1.    This annex provides the main assumptions of the economic and financial analysis of sub-project
investments for hybrid corn and sunflower seed enterprises, fruit and vegetable bases; and cold storage
facilities for fruits and vegetables.
ASSUMPTIONS FOR ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
2.    The following are the main assumptions for economic analysis:
General: (i) All calculations have been carried out in constant November 1993 US dollars, using
the G-5 Manufacturing Unit Value Indices for conversion from current price projections to constant 1993
values. (ii) All tradeable inputs, such as fuel, gas, chemicals and imported inputs have been priced at the
import parity ex-fictory gate prices which have been derived from the prevailing and projected world
market prices. Non-tradeable goods, of which labor (skilled and unskilled) is the most important, has
been shadow priced using a factor of 0.5, which represents its opportunity cost in terms of production
foregone in alternate activities. (iii) Analysis covers 15 years of project operation.
Seed enterprises: (i) The price projections of internationally traded commodities, viz., feed
quality corn, U.S. No. 2 Yellow have been used to derive the economic prices for corn seed prices.
Soybean prices have been used as proxy to derive sunflower seed prices. These prices were provided by
the Interational Economics Department of the World Bank. (ii) Seed to grain price ratios for hybrid
corn and sunflower seed have ranged between 14 to 16 in the past. For the purposes of this analysis, the
lower range of seed to grain price ratio of 14 has been used.
Marketing enterprises: (i) The financial models have been used as the basis for the derivation
of economic rates of return on the representative fruit and vegetable bases and cold storage facilities.
(ii) Economic prices for fruits and vegetables used in the analysis are import parity prices, as without the
project, the produce would have to be imported from neighboring FSU countries or East European
countries. (iii) The general assumptions stated above have been applied for valuing tradables. Non-
tradables have been valued using opportunity cost principles.
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
3.    The following are the main assumptions for financial analysis:
(i) All input and output prices, costs of equipment and materials are as of November 1993 obtained
during appraisal. (ii) Assumptions related to taxes, duties, depreciation, financing and sales are reported



190                                 ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 19
in the feasibility studies. (iii) All local costs have been expressed to US doallars. (iv) All calculations
have been carried out in constant November 1993 US dollars.
PLoT INvEmENT iN SEED ENTERPRLsEs
4.    Production of the hybrid corn and sun; ver seeds are expected to comwrence soon after the
establishment of the plants, which would take about one year for construction. The engineering design,
production costs and other operating details were prepared by Giproselkhozzemo, wihirh has several years
of experience in the seed industry. These were reviewed by the World Bank mission during the appraisal.
5.    The rr-in sources of revenue in the case of seed enterprises will be from the sale of hybrid corn
and sunflower seeds to state fanns, collective farms and individual private farmers. The seed prices
assumed for the financial analysis would cover raw seed procurement price, other production costs,
processing and storage costs, quality control costs, market promotion and marketing costs, costs of re-
processing, revalidation of carry over stocks, management overheads, debt servicing, depreciation, sales
and delivery costs, product development costs, such as varietal testing and taxes.
6.    The assurance of timely and reliable delivery of these seeds to the users, especially to those who
are located in close proximity to the seed plants, would ensure a steady market. Moreover, given their
lower production costs, the seeds produced by the project financed corn and sunflower plants would
compete with imported seeds. In the light of comparative advantage and continued demand for high
quality hybrid corn and sunflower seeds, the enterprises are expected to remain finncially viable and be
credit worthy for the life of the loan.
Piwr JNVEsTmENTs IN FRUIT AND VEGETABLE BAsES
7.    The main focus of these sub-projects will be to demonstrate how fruit and vegetable bases could
begin to function as cash and carry and mini-wholesale markets and distribution centers, and gradually
reduce their past function under the centrally planned system as the city government's long-term storage
and distributors of fruits and vegetables.
8.    The mini-wholesale markets will operate under well-defined guidelines providing for cost
recovery, and allow producers/traders and retailers to operate in a competitive environment. Existing
buildings and facilities at the bases are physically worn out, and even if they were to continue their
existing functions, massive investments would be needed to demolish and replace these, which is not
feasible in the short-to medium-term. As the market economy deepens, the bases would restructure their
overall operations focussing more on short-term storage and distribution in a wide range of commodities,
exploring at the same time, how the valuable urban land currently held by them could be more prof.tably
used. The proposed sub-projects will demonstrate this conversion aspect of the industry while broadening
the product range available to urban consumers; improving product quality; reducing post-harvest and
transportation losses; and improving producer incentives by allowing them to participate directly in the
marketing chain.



191                                  AN-NEX 16
Page 3 of 19
Pnr INvEsFmENTS IN CoLw STORAGE FACILITIES
9.    The proposed cold storage facilities for vegetables and potato in Moscow Oblast will assist
participating farms to substantially reduce transportation and storage losses; restructure existing
production practices to increase productivity, product quality and its ability to be stored; and producer
incentives.
10.   The project will provide incremental working capital to introduce new varieties suitable for long-
term storage, improved crop Iusbandry and post-harvest losses and demonstrate economically efficient
strategies for vegetable production, storage and marketing in the outskirts of major consumption centers.
The benefits will include improved prices to producers, based on storage of larger quantities of products
for longer periods compared to the situation without this investment, and will help reduce substantial post-
harvest losses. The financial analysis captures these benefits.
11.   The project will provide incremental working capital to participating enterprises to irtroduce
improved production and storage technologies, which the farms are expected to use to bring about
production efficiencies to reduce the per unit production cost, improve product quality; and increase
marketing margins. These improvements will potentially improve the financial rates of return by about
5-10 percent. These benefits are not currently reckoned in the financial analysis though the costs have
been included. The financial rates of return are particularly sensitive to product prices and marketing
margins and, therefore, project will require, as a condition of sub-loan approval, that enterprises
undertake to introduce mouern production and storage technologies; pay attention to bring about
efficiencies in vegetable and fruit production; and ensure optimal storage capacity utilization using energy
efficient practices. The project will provide necessary technical assistance to enterprises.
SummARY OF PRELIMNARY RESULTS
12.   The preliminary results of economic and financial analysis for seed and marketing enterprises are
summarized in the following tables.
(i) Comparative analysis of hybrid corn seed production costs (Annex Table 16.1)
(ii) Derivation of economic prices for seeds (Annex Table 16.2 and Annex Table 16.3)
(iii) Economic analysis for seed enterprises (Annex Table 16.4 and Annex Table 16.5)
(iv) Sensitivity analysis for economic rate of return (Annex Table 16.6)
(v) Financial analysis for seed enterprises (Annex Table 16.7 and Annex Table 16.8)
(vi) Estimated crop budgets (Annex Table 16.9 to 16.13)
(vii) Financial and economic analysis of marketing enterprises (Annex Table 16.14 to 16.16)



192                                  ANNEx 16
Page 4 of 19
Annex Table 16.1: Comparative Analysis of Hybrid Corn Seed ProductVon
Costs
(US $per tn)
North   Wes*=        hEatrn
Producton Cost Categres            Rus       Amerca    Euope         Europ
I. Variable costs: Raw seed.
('i) Parent Line Seed            42.50       97.50    105.00       103.00
(ii) Fertlizes
(a) Nitrogen                 17.87      19.50     24.10        19.11
(b) Phosphorus               18.50      22.60     28.40        21.8G
(c) Potash                   2.13        4.80      4.30         4.60
(iii) Pesicides
(a) Herbicides              23.33       30.65     28.25        29.20
(b) Lnsecticides             12.40      12.85     12.40        13.79
(iv) Machbiey Costs              46.07       51.75     62.50        54.80
(v) Labor                        22.67       86.50     98.50        64.50
(iv) Managment Costs              3.67       25.00     36.00        15.60
Sub-Total Raw Seed          189.14     351.15    399.45       326.31
H. Processing Costs               275.00      438.00    472.00       290.00
m. Total Cost of Processed -      464.14      789.15    871.45       616.31
Hybrid Corn Seed
IV. Comparative production
Cost of Russia with (%):
(i) North America         58.8
(ii) Western Europe       53.2
(iii) Eastem Europe       75.3
Asumpons:
1. Raw hybrid cor seed yields av asumzed to be 1.5 to/ha in Russia, 2ton/h in North America
and Westem Europe and 1.t    in Eate  Europe.
I Ptocesipg cost icude al varable cost, dpciton and financa chages



_mw      _Wu pwpq mupa*d mgadsqqWm.e  p*woq_Ao
8.qdogsaap .ip weoro *oqisno.  ase .mpu*uow"d pIPAOm  an  Wm) %odw 'A.uun  *.Oius 844-n   -  WoO poSaStO -NMNVM'WP=mMI  &W43COMOR PAWNIOUTCJ
w                   .eOw. pea uo.q mq   p
flWO api ap-.-      rAl -,W us %000311 08 ON*i0lSP UA-00 4109 .m q-4 ems 00 PMr "  q wan. 3630 PO uAP.m.mq Ml eupewdW Omin .q
e ~~~~~aw0ooa' PluP"4e pWm Nov 4u
ep zw_  p_        tql             mi  ewzr   iiF         2eo   p  xw   2Wq e22                W  ,wuweqd  pap _WOOWSU 1 1
wapmAsMs.mqeIwu0
°~~o                 to      to      to             to      to      to     a       to      to     to      4     s 9    __40_
IW     got    ta       mi    0061    amt    aspt    sipt    Mt    S1         663    eOft    Osp    cen    CMo       e&                                 _
b _qWu Bd -  D
op     op      oo    oe       ot      oP      >       op     op      e>      op      Op     op      op      op      opr                (uw9s00wmq  -pmAia
t    gm        aclt   6gm   6ot    OM         nu6    IKo 0K             t    a1    CMt    006       St    a"64    00@961      6&OU40*V AnummO
an       M     ea       M     964 55 061 66  it 004    gmO    1831    as$I    Mt    LOLl    Mt3   OMt    IK  gmP   COPIr             soNd p006 4*0 W04 wwognb3&
co     IO    tC        eou   IB    1o0       901    1291       U15l                 Ct    90t    got1   lOt        0UWsnSO SAM Uo
W1     at1   VU        st     ct1    a3t    6at    #t                "t      *it                    081    001 ee1                              U ijeS   iun
n '"hA WOW  iNiOO
pp                s                   i;E iw  *ia  w                         wr wr                  UEas
ii  n   ;      ii      U       g         ;i      i    z2         i       i           i 1    1               e I                            __
im~ Wm
(wg xdBryI sr a"wkIAqr)
aUBId BUISSwOJd p9qS-X3 ju peeS UJwOo pJqAH JO; 9018WAS3 GoIJd OIWOU0O3 :Zog I. ejqj xeUUV



Annex Table 16.3: Economic Price Estimates for Hybrid Sunflower Seed at Ex-Seed Processing Plant
(in conAn   13 US$ p                                                                              6Om)
PftDAW                               9       ~        ~        ~ i                                     z         I        a        a        .u       a                           is-a 
ALEMYEA                                                            16       190      1t        1OOO Z9 jM                                                                                   200 6
hn_lSSln                                      aS       as        2st      u         278        0      ong       asga 2t 2e 9       M3                041      341       341      041      041
_o t timS  USn                               260      26i1      g42      240       246      2E0      206      236       2e0      20        260      266      200       260      26       20
FAeboand Inw        0^  GUF
soAna r                                         so       so        so       so       so        so       so       st        so        so      as        so       so       so       to        so
EOYBEANO   too PORtS                            22a       2M       212      210       216               236       206      210       20       220      226       229      220      229      229
EqWWta      ftMH      b flOotedPie             3122      0s0      2002      2904     Om08     0078     0146      20am     2943      s010    a004      0147      s200    3s20      m20e     O6
C- AdtMt(6%)                                  2go"       2944     2D14      27;t    2g6       2926     2DsD      2720     2796      26       2030     2SD0      3047     307      SU7       047
Fret NW keawo (US a)                             40        40       40       40        40       40       40        40       40        4^       40       40        40       40       40       40
OIF IOJOMNPORt (mclnsk*.
ecNwcykhs)                                     O aO               2864      2627     209      2N6       N        27       23        2W?07    270 S     030      30? 3O07 WV        007    3007
mtdOowsIeeTTmpa "WA"                             0?        67       07        07       07       07        67       67                 67       a7       e?        67       07       67       07
Ecanb Impet PFt y FWO ot
Itty    Suaflw Sod Ex4Povew_      t           s07a     3061      2          04                                                              BE07     3o07     3164      3164     3164     316.
1Nob: 1. Theo      pr4woln kWe nton l _t     eedyboae ha been uted t lw bab IDdot Oe tuw.wcoaord p_m On Omi" pb   teo antdd eed-tw-gmln pde MOc o d14 hw boo used
4.d.io  me p4cc 0 ewnil  acc
Z The UttI Vabn ne x  hS WOl  simst t f maitmho tlpoo *_    m th 06 coneleeb   o.OimwJsa.   lA( aidX USA) wegted p _t          o e.*llecubs' expone boXdowhpgcounsb
has been usd  to balig I o ae04s  *tlkec    _t t.0 e    ssl 00 aoo
0% 
II.



Annex Table 16.4: Economic Analysis for Hybrid Com Seed Enterprises
(i constt 199 US$ dousand)
lleb"Y                                             1                   a _       4                   I         7         8         5        160      f         12                  14        16
CRA!                                            ifl       lBE       J      .     ?      UN        tiN      r ee Us s  SUN                          2904      2668      SU        290?1      l    2SN
tb d CM OmObed bmp3eS                                                 s         2
L. MVEWTMENTOCOSTS
t.0110LVIO
LOCALCO0ST
FOIWOCOST1
De~Ia  Pce_eedo~. _he30~g. UIip.clm 2167                        2167      143s
* ZEWUMNTAlMAC3SNUW
LOCA  OMST
Po b and F. Equip,                            s14                  476       56
FOOOS1MS
Peo eee    wdftm Equip                                 20688    gem6      187
VALCO4TIMECS                                     13    3a"?       S316      204
a.TOrAL INOOM IT0                               148    364144    381E4    22466
. OPEMIIS coCrO8
* ZtRaw seed aegIs                                     6611      112    22363    22363222363             MU         3       223       2    2221 S 9                 23       2M2  
46 Pvooeeskag S sterna. coal.                          666S 1)6_           6m       26        26t       268       2568      268       266       26        288      266       266       266
ZA         dn_b* t eo taft                     40         Ns       1361      164        64       184      1(4      1t4        154       16        184       I64       134       16        18 4
Mwatenr1  ...als                                        36n        61S       UN        024      624      6Om        6l24      611       621       624       04 6o1              924      92N
) PAReP*    d_ ,.1lawn1t                t                         306      406       4664      406       4684      406       4064      406       4064      4064      4064     4064      4064
dTfr      1tace  tdwM                                   663      t1e16      168       1660      166      1610      1666      1680      16        1680      1660      160       1860     1880
t) Uloelb sol                                           261       462        74S       743      743       743       743       74        743       74$       743       743       743      143
-ToWTale nsgcs                                  s0      6e        1866     6aw       32m       34"       826       am"       3244    3464        Sa6       324      39m       826        am
I TPAN                                                     274       234        70
IW. TE *40AL ASSISANCE                            so       400       27n       t7S
U. TOTAL COSTS                                           at"   "W   6son   M6m  32    Sam8246                           "  S             Om   am"4 MM   MM   2                            3M249
Ptooe_     of   d cea n aced ta                                   16O       30666    406        40000    40066     4600 0    4 0000    46O6O     40466          4     00066     4066   400X
MPt at ocyInIdc owd(tI#Aw )                                        1467      16t       17n       lo3       1636      1861      1466      1447      1a        130      134       1346      130
Revenekmer   deaneedoc                                            224       46        6612      73443    644    68           6061        736    86         83972    862    63072          872
Seeliducvshaelconp4fte                                                                                                                                                                  3216
TOTAL ENE                                                         X         463    6128    7             644        W0       861       676       6s6W      6372    639 72    63972    64166
V.-lIEBEAS                                      -28     - :       -M 316      _                      S6M 817b46M 2                                           23478    21478    21478    61
VL ECONOMIC MTEOPPETI94N
VI NPVAT tO9                                   Zen| 
*eo



Annex Table 16.5: Economic Analysis for Hybrid Sunflower Seed Enterprises
(in cwstaat 1993 US$ per tm)
PKIUECTYEAR                                         1        2         3         4         6        6         7        8         9        10       11        12        13       14        16
C4LENDM                                         '1094      toSS  ts8 o        ii        1006     Ige       20ht     2001      2002 S                       2006     2006      2007     2006
L NCESTBfC0S1b
No. ci    d 8unM w Seed _nIpib                               I        I
1. CtILWORK
LOCAL COSTS
OfloAb.,=gs tto                                          282       202
FORSNCOSTS
"---I k1eJSWoIpholyksg.eIs                               161       18
TOTAL COSOS FOR CML WO6U.                                443       44t
2.eOIJIFENI ANDMACH4RI'
LOCA. OOSTS
Proessbng EsuIpet                                        280      280
FOREOS COSTS
ReM £qu_Ent                                              600F     6900
SAb-ToW                                                 62a0     6a
TOrAL COSTS FOR E PUWU r & MACNEY                       6600       600
PIffOCAL COISENCESFORCNML VOK                              44       44
PHYSICAL CONTKIENCES FOR EQ. & MIO                        so        i
S. TOTAL ONESTWN  COSTS                                   7837      757M
IL OPERATINa COrS
()Iased cat                                             1874      24       4122      4122      4122     4122      4122     4122      4122     4122      4122      4122     41        4122
(a) Proceelag £   g cst                                  132       2t4      356       62        a2       62S       628     6VA        62        62       68         2  62             628
(OtOA*rAnbtraflvtl                              10        28        67       6?        67        67       67        67       67       6S          ?       67        67       6?        6?
v)M U      _ance Cosa                                     46        62       62        62        62       62        62       62        62        62       62        c2       62        62
(v) Ip*ls aiPad pl     t                                  28        60       66        66        66       66        66       66        66       66        e6        66       a6        66
MT--eped £ olo   chuwg
Cd Ms.Snwcost
Sub-Tott Op patng Cot                            t       160       3171     4692      4624     4624      4624      4624     4824      464      4624      42        462      4624      4824
aNL TwinIn                                                   6       274       200       176
IV TenIal A       _atne                            6t      400       276       176
IIL TOTAL COSTS                                    JO    0se6      11360      606      4000      4624      484      4624      42       482       4t24      4824     4624      4824     4824
IV. BENEFIT
Poducton of hybud eurfo     codon)                                 2000      4000      4000      4000     4600      4000     4000      4000     4000      4000      4000     4000      4000
Pdoo dl hdM suniwet soed Saon)                                     2004      2066      3031      300?     2827      2002     2974      8037      8007     3164      3164     3164      3164
Ro i krom Stnfotw  Seed StJo                                       6787    i160e   12126    12308        11308    11810    11e80     12147    12387    12816    12816    12616    12616
ReoldVaba.e SnfowrPt                                                                                                                                                                  40e6
TOTAL SENERlS                                                     6787    11s86      12126    12386    11300    11010   l10         12147    12307    12616    12616    12616   1Ism1                        (8>
00 
V. NET SENEFITS                                   -                -6         6706 _n GM 7126    766       62         6                73        76        77s      77        T        11617                       Z : 
VL ECDOOMC RATE OF _tU%4
VW NPVAT-0*                                    26717



197                                    ANNEX 16
Page 9 of 19
Annex Tabis 16.6: Sensitivity Analysis for Economic Rates of Return for
Hybrid Corn and Sunflower Seed Enterprises
Corn                     Sunflower
I.  Base Economic Rate of Return        25%      25%     25%          37%     37%      37%
II. Increase in Cost by                 10%      15%     20%          10%     15%      20%
Ratos of Retoun (X)         Rates of Return (%)
(i) investmentCosts                    23       22      20          34       33       32
(ii) Operating Costs                   21       19       17          34      33       32
(iii) Total Costs                      19       16       14          31      23       26
HI. Decrease in Benefits by              10%     15%     20%          10%     15%      20%
Rs jes of Retoun (%)        Rates of Ren (%)
(i) Total Benefits                     18       15       11          30      27       23
IV. Switching Values at                  10%     15%      20%         10%      15%     20%
(i) investment Costs                 +105      +58     +21         +175    +125      +76
(ii) Operating Costs                  +38      +25     +13          +90     +74      +53
(iii) Total Costs                     +27      +17      +9         +62      +48      +32
(iv) - Total Benefits                 -22      -15      -8         -38      -32      -25



Annex Table 16.7: Financial Analysis of a Hybrid Com Seed Enterprise
(n contw 1993 tbom d US )
P r * c   Y eas            _   _  _  _  _   _  _ _  _  _  _   _  _
hms                                  1994   1995       19         97   1998    1999   2000   2001   200K2  2C0)3   200    2005   2006  2007    20
Revenue
By sda of seeds (a)                                  6400    6400   6400    64                6400   6400  6400   6400   6400   6400  6400    6400
Reddud Value Com Unit                                                                                                                              2135
Equment Hlr charges (b)                       8         12      12      12       12      12     12      12    12       12     12      12    12       12
By sale of under zed seeds and reojects                 6        7       7        7      7       7       7      7      7       7       7      7       7
Total tevnea                                  8      6418    6419   6419    6419   6419   6419   6419  6419   6419   6419   6419  6419    8554
Costs
iavestamen costs
Civil Works                        210   2708
Equipment and Machineries          185  10344
Total lIvestment Cots            395  13052
Opaeraing costs
Raw seed deivery cost                     2275      2275    2275   2275    2275   2275   2275   227S  2275   2275   2275   2275  2275    2275
Processing and storage cot                  332       332     332    332       332    332    332    332   332    332    332    332   332            332
Alndnistrdve ovorhead                1:     23        23       23      23       23     23      23      23    23      23      23      23    23       23
Maintenance Costs                            63        83      93    103       103    103    103    103   103    103    103    iO3   103            103
Replaement and repair cost                   37        37       37     37       37      37     37      37    37       37      37     37    37        37
Transport and odier charges                 195       195      195    195      195    195    195    195   195    195    195    195   195            195
isOcelaneous Cost                     8      77        77      77      77       77      77     77      77    77       77     77      77    77       77
Total Operating Coss              810   3002       3022    3032   3042    3042   3042   3042   3042  3042   3042   3042   3042  3042    3042
Total costs                          1205  16054       3022    3032   3042    3042   3042   3042   3042  3042   3042   3042   3042  3042    3042
Net Incremental Revenue             -1205 -16046       3396    3387   3377    3377   3377   3377   3377  3377   3377   3377   3377  3377    5512
Fianming
Loans Long term                           11695
Equity                              395   1357
Total Fanncing                   395  13052
Debt Service
Loan repayment                                       2192    2192   2192    2192   2192   2192   2192  2192
Interes @ 10%                                        1170    1067    955       831    695    545    380   199
Total                                              3362    3259   3147    3023   2887   2737   2572  2391
Incrementa revenue after debt Service                    34      128    230      354    490    640    805   986   3377   3377   3377  3377    5512    0  z
Fnancial IRR                          18%                                                                                                                       X
a. Sale prie of Corn secd asumed at US$1280/ton.
b. Equ4wipt hire charges am levied to contact growrs for servic  of  poited seod drls, harvesters and deftsslers.



Annex Table 16.8: Financial Analysis of a Sunflower Seed Enterprise
(a CoDsa  1993 tosad US)
Prlopct Yersr
Items                             1994   1995   199    197    1998   199   2(       2001    22   2003   2(       2005   20    2       2,008
Revenue
Sale of seeds (a)                     2,840  4,850   4,850   5,680  5,680  5,680  5,680  5,680  5,680  5,680  5.680  5,680  5,680  5,680
Hirebcargeson mwlMnery(b)                 6      6       6       6      6       6      6      6      6      6      6      6       6      6
Sale of r*et seeds                        8      8       8       8              8                    a      a8  8  8  8  8  8    8       8
Residual uni value                                                                                                                   2,043
Total Rboveaue                          2,854  4,864   4.864   5,694  5,694  5,694  5,694  5.694  5.694  5,694  5,694  5,694  S,694  7.M
Costs
Ivestmat oats
CMIv Wrks                      43    400
Equlpmait and Machianey         50  5,700
Sub-total Inveetmait Costs   93  6,100
opg Cots
Raw seed delivery costs             2,374  2,374   2,374   2,374  2,374  2,374  2,374  2,374  2,374  2,374  2,374  2,374  2,374  2,374
Procesosg and dkorag coss             394    394     394     394    394    394    394    394    394    394    394    394    394    394
Admnnistrati"Overhweds                28      28      28      28     28     28    28      28      28     28    28      28     28     28
Mabnenanre Costs                       46     46      46      46     46     46     46     46      46     46     46     46     46    46
:lscelman -sexpens.                    28     28      28      28    28      28     28     28      28     28     28     28     28     28
Traning                                 I      I       I       I      I       I      I      I      1      1      1      1      1      1
Total Costs                         93  8,971  2,871   2,871   2,871  2,871  2,871  2,871  2,871  2,871  2,871  2,871  2.871  2,871  2,871
Net Revenue                        (93) (6,117) 1,993   1,993   2,823  2,823  2.823  2,823  2,823  2,823  2,823  2,823  2,823  2,823  4,866
Fh-
Loan,                                 5,S76
Equiy                             93    524
Total                           93  6,100
Debt Service
PricIa                                        1,045   1,045   1,045  1,045  1,045  1,045  1,045  1,045
Intre @ 10%                                    SS8     S09    455    396    331    260    181       95
Total                                       1,603   1,554   1,500  1,441  1,376  1,305  1,226  1,140                                         I
Incaemental Ievenue (afte debt service)          390     439   1,323  1,382  1,447  1,518  1,597  1,683  2,823  2,823  2,823  2,823  4,866
Fingncial ERR                     34%                                                                                                              z
,. Sailepriof  )ridsufowrsedas SdtUS$2840/ton.
b. Equimen Hir charg ar levied to coftac srowws for srvie, of impoed swed dras, harvea  and dets                                                5



200                                   ANNEX 16
Page 12 of 19
Annex Table 16.9: Crop Budget for Corn Grain Production in Krasnodar Kray
(North Caucasus)
Unit       Totl       % of
Units     pico (8)     CodstX       Total
Items                              Unit     perha (h(                             COS
I. Production Cost
Seed                            kg        25.0           1.2        30.0        9.0
Ferdlizer
Organic                       ton        10.0           1.5        15.0        4.5
Nitrogen                     100 kg       4.0          9.0         36.0       10.8
Phosphorus                   100 kg       3.0          10.8        32.4        9.7
Potash                       100 kg       2.0          6.0         12.0        3.6
Dry Ferdlizer                                                      2.00        0.6
Subtotal Ferdlizer                                               97.4        29.2
Other Inputs                                                          1.1        0.3
Pcst-emergence herbicide                                           25.0        7.5
Tractor & M/C Repairs                                              16.8        5.0
Fuel                                                               15.0        4.5
Transport                                                           1.2        0.4
Miscellaneous                                                       2.4        0.7
Sub-total: Other inputs                                            61.5        18.4
Ag- Machinery costs including
Maintenance and Depreciation                                         87.2       26.1
Labor cost                                                           21.0        6.3
Overhead                                                             37.0       11.1
Total Production Cost                                                  334.1      100.0
II. Revenue                        ton         6.0         73.0        438.0
HI. Net Returns per Ha                                                 103.9
a. Pices adjustd to rlect the cal op wmrketpnces.



201                                  ANNEX 16
Page 13 of 19
Annex Table 16.10: Crop Budget for Corn Seed Production In Gulkevichi Farm
In Krasnodar Kray
Unit       TotWl      % of
Units       pioe       C4st&a       ToWa
Items                             Unit      perba he                   ($       Cots
I. Production Cost
Seed                            kg        25.0          4.8       120.0       20.4
Fortilizer
Organic                      ton        20.0          1.8        36.0        6.1
Nitrogen                    100 kg       4.0          9.0        36.0        6.1
Phosphorus                  100 kg       3.0         10.8        32.4        5.5
Potash                      100 kg       1.0          6.0         6.0        1.0
Dry fertilizr                                                     5.0        0.9
Subtotal Ferdlizers                                            115.4       19.6
Oter inputs
Pre-emergence hbicide                                              1.3        0.2
Insecticide and nematicide                                         0.7        0.1
Post-emergence herbicide                                           25         4.3
Tractor & M/C reDpir                                               2S         4.3
Fuel                                                              19.6        3.3
Transport                                                          0.6        0.1
Misceolanos                                                         10        1.7
Sub-total                                                       82.2       14.0
Ag-Machinery Costs Including
Maintanmnco and depreciation                                     180.0       30.6
Labor cost                                                          40.0        6.8
Overhead                                                            50.0        8.5
Total Production Cost                                                587.6      100.0
II. Revenue                       ton         2.0        480.0       960.0
m. Net Returns per Ha                                                372.4



202                                  ANNEX 16
Page 14 of 19
Annex Table 16.11: Crop Budget for the Production of Corn for Silage In
Moscow Oblast
PWice/Uait  Total/ha   X of
Itms                          unit  Units        (A)       ($        Totl
I. Production Cost: Green Corn
Labor                       ha          1.0     23.2      23.2       5.2
Ag-Machinery costs
Tractors                  ba          1.0      22.3      40.1      9.0
Machinery                 ha          1.0      19.7      35.5      4.8
Subtotal                                              75.6     17.0
Operating costs
Tractors                  ha          1.0      17.4      17.4      3.9
Machinery                 ha          1.0      12.9      12.9      2.9
Subtotal                                              30.3      6.8
Fuel                       Cwt         2.8      12.0      34.0      7.6
Seed                       Cwt         0.5     120.0      60.0     13.5
Fertilizer
Organic                  ton        20.0       1.5      30.0      6.7
Nitrogen                 Cwt         1.5       9.0      13.5      3.0
Phorphorus               Cwt         3.0      10.8      32.4      7.3
Potash                   Cwt         2.0       6.0      12.0      2.7
Subtotal                                              87.9      19.7
Herbicide                  kg          4.0       3.0      12.0      2.7
Trnsport                                                   9.0      2.0
Miscellaneous                                              3.0      0.7
Subtotal                                             236.2     53.0
Overhead                                                  36.5      8.2
Total Production Cost                                      371.5     83.4
Corn Green                   ton        40.0       8.5     340.0
Silaging Costs
Labor                                                     15.0      3.4
Tractor & M/C Operations                                   6.3      1.4
Repair tractors & machines                                 2.5      0.6
Fuel                       Cwt         0.3      12.0       3.4      0.8
Transport                                                 27.0      6.1
Miscellaneous                                             12.0      2.7
Overhead                                                   7.9      1.8
Total Cost of Silag. Production                           74.1      16.6
Total Prod. Cost of Silage  to          30.0      14.9     445.6    100.0
II. Revenue from Silage    ton          30.0        18     540.0
III. Net Return per Ha     ton                              94.4



203                                  ANNEX-16
Page 15 of 19
Annex Table 16.12: Crop Budget for Sunflower for Grain (Commercial) in
Belgorod Oblast
Pic/Unit  Cost 1       % to
IAns                               Unt    Units./h          (         (M      TOt
I. Production Cost
Seed                           kg          5.0         4.0      20.0      7.2
Fordlizer
Organic                      ton          3.0         1.5       4.5      1.6
Nitrogen                    100 kg        1.6         9.0      14.4      5.2
Phosphorus                  100 kg        1.4         3.0       4.2      1.5
Subtotal                                                       23.1      8.3
Other Inputs
Proe-mergenc herbicide        kg          12.0         2.5      30.0     10.7
bIsecticide and nematicii.    kg           5.0         3.0      15.0      5.4
Tractors                                                         9.0      3.2
Machines                                                        11.3      4.0
Fuel                           kg          2.0        10.0      20.0      7.3
Miscellaneous                                                    1.8      0.6
Total other Input csts                                         190.8     68.3
Ag-Machinery coss including
Maintenance & Depreciation                                         43.6     15.6
Labor cost                                                         15.0      5.4
Overhead                                                           29.9     10.7
Total Production cost                                               279.3    100.0
:1. Revenue                        ton          2.0       240.0     480.0
m. Net return per ha                                                200.7



204                                   ANNEX 16
Page 16 of 19
Annex Table 16.13: Crop Budget for Production of Sunflower Seeds in Kazanskaya
Farm, Krasnodar Kray
Price/Unit  Cost /he    % to
Itms                                Unit    Umits./ba        (M         (       Total
I. Production Cost
Seed                             kg           5.0        12.0       60.0     13.7
Fertilizer
Organic                        ton                       1.5
Nitrogen                     100 kg         1.6         9.0      14.4      3.3
Phorphorus                   100 kg         1.4        10.8      15.1      3.4
Potash                       100 kg         1.0         6.0       6.0       1.4
Sub-total                                                        35.5       8.1
Other Inputs
Pre-emergence herbicide        kg           6.0         2.5       15.0      3.4
Insecticide and nematicide      kg          2.0         3.0        6.0      1.4
Tractors                                                          10.8      2.5
Machines                                                          13.8      3.1
Subtotal
Fuel                                                               12.0      2.7
Miscellaneous                                                       1.8      0.4
Total other inputs                                               59.4      13.5
AgMachiney cost including
Maintenance & Dep.                                                 167.4     38.1
Labor cost                                                           65.0     14.8
Overhead                                                             52.0     11.8
Total production cost                                                 439.3    100.0
II. Revenue                         ton          0.8      1,000.0     800.0    182.1
III. Net Returns per Ha                                               360.7     82.1



Annex Table 16.14: Financial Analysis of Sverdolovskoye Fruit and Vegetable Base
(kO 1993 WO
Moscow CRY
P*64 Pdo   rxw              P*
Mmg   o"  Moe   Mo    Moe
Naabu    naa/S   sh/S    ash/S           it/
AM                       Unit as,  year3  ywr4  yerw-7 ywrS-15   Year I    Year2  Yerr3  Yewr4  YerS5  Year 6  Yeor?   Year    Year 9  YearIO  Year Ii  Ycar12  Year J3  Year 14  Yrear S
Production Scale
Dligbgjhq  cact        m2   5760        54      66        t4       tO1                     264384 323136 411264 411264 411264  5.068   S28768  S2S76S  528768  S28768  S28768  S28768  328768
Pteo moe               too   4000      5.6                                                  22400  22       22400  22400  22400   22400   22400   22400   22400   22400   22400   22400   22400
Refdgtldokr            ton  12000      3.8                                                  45600  450  450  450   4                45       45       456      45600   45604600   45600   45600
Wboeale mIni-mke   m2   2700            84      96       108        132                    192730 2332S0  277020 277020 277020  33850  338580  338580  338580  338580  338580  338530  338580
CA & caty              m2   125        72      84        96        120                     90000 105000 12000 120000 120000  150000  5S0000  IS00   150000  15000010 ISOO0   15000   ISOOO
Rm _tibt               .2    275        90      90       102        114                     24750  24750  2805  28050  29050   31350   31350   31350   31350   31350   31350   31350   31350
Trbukan                pCs 10500         1                                                  lOS15    10500  1OSO0   10500  IOS15     10500   10500   10500   1OS30   IOS15       1OSO0    10500   1os00
Fall. & tmtk eaIng           3600                                                            3600   3600   3600   3600   3600    3600    3600    3600    3600    3600    3600    3600    3600
RevenUe                                                                                    654014 768266 918434 91S434 918434 1130798 1130798 11307W9  130791 11309M I8V30791 1t30798 1M30793
costs
a. licnvtmai cost
Cyweb                                                                     83333  1421750                                                                                                         9036S5
Eqiuned a-Aity                                                            5000S0 107000
Design and eqiassalnW 265600
HqskaI ceadaeal                                                            84913   360768                                                                                                                      O
Sb toiem                                                                934046  2853SIS
b. Optanits cost
Labmw and -                                                                                  7693   7693   7693   7693   7693    7693    7693    7693    7693    7693    7693    7693    7693
Wu    and gaw                                                                                11740  11740  1174   11740  11740   1740   11740   11740   11740 t1740    11740   11740   1174
u                                                                                             S    Sff39 MM4 54630  54630  54630 54630   S4630   54630  5430   86030   660       OM 860           86030
hCnienM wasg  I--    -mg                                                                                                                                                                        -300m
3   teow                                                                                  174063 174063  74063  74063  74063   74063   74063   4063   10463  105463    0543   105463 -194537
Total Cost                                                                 934046  2853518  74063 174063  74063  74063  74063   74063   74063   74063  10563  105463  105463  105463 -194537
fincrmental Revenue                                                       -934046 -283518 4799S1 494203 844371 844371 844371 1036735 1063  1056735 12335 1025335 102533  1025335 22M2885
Finaning
Be     (Oms OMUINtA                                                      2735 6 3296
LeZt                                                                     660462030 72211000    2000W
Taw                                                                    934046  2153518 10000 2M0000
Debt Service
Lea         _  tqft                                                                                149068440000 500000 5S5000   800000  53t617
tstO 105%                                                                                  47449 289068 284t62  W862  188162  133162   53162
lncrementa  Revenue (After debtservice)                                                        5302  S3606 1O0209 106209 106209  123573  471956 1OS6735 1025335 102335  1025335 1C2S335 2228985                I
_moo   Rm afIt                  26%                                                                                                                                                                          °0
NnS ato 10    ust US          2



Annex Table 16.15: Financial Analysis of Bunyatino Farm (3000 ton cabbage cold storage)
Onceetn 1993 WSS
Mosoww Obla8t
Number
Anab                            Unit  uite  SAM         YearJ    Year2   YeVr5   Y.ar4  Year5   Year6   Year7   YearS   Ycar9  YearlO  YearIl  YearI2  YearI3  Ycarl4  YcariS
Prodluction Scale
a. kmad price
Stwage up to 2 months          ton   750      62.5                             46       54S 466SS 468 75 46S?5  46S        75   4687S   46875   46875   4687S   46875   46875    46875
Stoop up to 4 mooa             ton   750    125.0                         93750   93750  93730   937S0   93750   93750   93750   9370   93750               93750   9370   93750   93750
St      oer S Mon&$            ton  1500    250.0                        375000  375000 375000  375000  375000  375000  375000  375000  375000  375000  375000  375000  375000
b. Woduced lose (IS%)           ton  3000       18.8                        56400   56410  56400   56400    56400    5400   6S400   56400   56400   56400   56440   56400   56400
(at t50 RA1g)
Revenue (1)                                                                57 5       225 57202S  572025  572025           0     57202S  572025  57272025 2D2S  572 57        572025  57225
costs
a. [aveatment cost
Cih lo                                                930733   501300                                                                                                                   63420
-            t d  yaaemn                                        430500
D*a.SgWJWMU.                                           20517     11217
TraiJe                                                                    64667
Tc a   d e                                                               113333
ConIigcke                                              93067    91817
Sub too  (                                          1044317   1041834  178000
b. Operating cost
Labour and meenlat                                                         2Q00      20Q0    2000    200o    2000    2000    2000    2000    2000    2000    20o0    2Q00                2000
Waw An    e                                                                100o.9   10o08    1009   lo009    10089   t1089    10089    10069    10089   10089   10089   10089    10089
met                                                                       20110    20110  20110   20110   20110    20110   20110   20110   28720   23720   28720   28720    287
OUer Coal
lnrmnca workig cap.                                                       66M0   100000 100000   66700                                                                               -333400
Sub totl (                                                               98899   132199 132199   9899    32199   32199   3219    3219    40809   40809   40809   40809 -292591
c. Taxes (4)
Total Cost (5)                                        1044317  1041834  27689    132199 132199   98899    32199   32199   32199   32199   40809   40809   40809   40809 -292S91
Net revenue
Incremental Revenue                                  -1044317 -1041834  295126  43m26 439826  473126   S39826  S39826  S39826  s39826  531216  531216  531216  531216 1728036
Financing
EqUIty (own contrtKIon)                              33s553    234583   IO000
Low                                                  708734    072S    17800    100000 100000
Total                                              1044317  1041834  278000
Debt Service
Loan rpayment                                                                     200000 200000  240000  31000o  340000  360000  243985                                                                   O5
lntrest @10%                                                             236298   174398  164398   144398   125398   94398   60398   24398                                                                     >
Total                                                                  236298   374398 364398  384398  43539s  434398  420398  2683s3                                                                    oc z
z
Incremental Revenue (After debt servce)                                    s58       6s427  75427   8872    104427  1OS427  119427  271442  531216  53U216  531216  S31216 1728036
FLAnOal RAte of Rettam          19%                                                                                                                                                                          _
Ecooma  Rate of etum            26%
NPV at 10 % tO US $)           1281



Annex Table 16.16: Financial Analysis of Plodoovoshprom Farm (Fruits and Vegetable Base)
(in constant 1993 US$)
Belgorod Oblast
Number
Am                          Unit    aits  SM1on  Year Z    Year2    Year3    Ycar4   YearS   Year6   Year7   Year8   Year9   Year O  Year 11  Yearl2  Year13  Yearl4  Year 15
I. Production Scale
a. PFnts
Stoog uto 2 months           ton   112   213                           235    23856   23856   23856   23856   23856   23856   23856   23856   23856   23856   23856   23856
Stoage upto 4 months         ton   223   290                           64670   64670   64670   64670   64670   64670   64670   64670   64670   64670   64670   64670   64670
Stor   upo S months          ton   223   305                           61015   68015   68015   68015   68015   68015   68015   68015   68015   68015   6801S   68015   681IS
Sub-Tota                                                             156541  156541  156541  156541  156541  156541  156541  156541  156541  156541  156541  156541  15541
b. Vcgtablt
Stoup upto 2 montes          too  132?    63                            8293s   8293s   8293s   S2938   s293s   s2938   82938   1293S   s293S   s2s3s   8293s   $293s   s293s
Storago upto 4 months        ton  1689    91                          153066  153066  153066  153066  153066  153066  153066  153066  153066  153066  153066  L53066  153066
Stoage to S mooths           ton  1689   130                          219570  219570  2195s0  219570  219570  219570  219570  219570  219570  219570  219570  219670  219s70
Sub-Total                                                           4M    455m    45ss73  4ss73  45ss73  455573  455573  4555    455573  455573  455573  4ss573  45ss5
C. Potto Stooa                 too  m         6                          48000   4800    4S000   4000   41000   4S000   4SO0    4SO00    48000   41000   4100    41000   41000
d. Dlstbuto  Leasin, other services                                     115200  115200  115200  10   115200  115200  115200  115200  115200  115200 11200  11520    115200
e. Reduced Lems (15%)          ton  5263    IS                           94734   94734   94734   94734   94734   94734   94734   94734   94734   94734   94734   9474   94734
TOtal Rames                                                             822048  822048  822041  822048  822048  822048  822048  822048  822D48  822D48  822048  822048  822041
L. Costs
IL h bcstuiait cos
civil worts                                        135500   316000                                                                                                               225750       o
Euptlme  sold mahly                                546400   819600                                                                                                                            -
TrInn                                                         5X000
C     o_tngenies                                    13550    3t600
Sub total                                         695450  1367200
b. Opeatig cao
Labour ad manamat                                                      113400  113400  113400  113400  113400  113400  113400  113400  113400  t134W0  113400  113400  113400
Water anda me                                                          129600  129600  129600  129600  129600  129600  129600  129600  12              129600  129600  12960  129600
Trq                                                                      8300    8300    8300    8300         300    8300    S300    8300    8300    O3M0    8300    8300    8300
_      Iermal   W8 c.                                                  110000  100000                                                                                           -2MM
Sub total                                                             351300  351300  251300  251300  251300  251300  251300  251300  251300  251300  251300  251300   51300
Total Cod                                           695450  1367200   351300  351300  251300  251300  2513£0  251300  251300  251300  251300  2513£0  251300  251300   51300
m. Inbremel   Revenue                              -695450 -13672£0   47074   4748  570748  570748  570748  570748  570741  570748  570748  570748  570748  570748  996498
IV. Financing
Equi (Own Cautrib)tan)                             208635   410160
LAM                                                486815   957040   100000  200000
Total                                             695450  1367200   100000  20000
Debt Servic                                                                                                                                                                                o
L<oan tr _yns                                                          290643  290643  290643  290643  290643  290643                                                                     c>
Jate     b10%                                                         149254  125321  116257   S7193   58128   29064                                                                        Z
Total                                                                 439896  415964  406900  377835  348771  319707                                                                         Z
V. Icemental Revenue (After Debt Service)                                30852   54784  163849  192913  221977  251041  570748  570741  570748    0748  570741  570748  996498 -4
Base P bula Roe of Rdett                    23%
Eccoomklaw ae of turn                       29%                                                                                                                                                O
NPV of Net Reveu at 10% 900 Us$)           1547



208                                 ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 10
RUSSIAN FEDERATiON
AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (ARIS) PROJECT
ANALYSIS OF REPRESENTATVE PARTICIATING ENTERPRISES
Moscow CffY FRuff AND VEGET rABLE BASES
1.    The two fruit and vegetable bases - the Sverdlovskaya and Perovskaya - which are likely to
r_ceive project assistance are part of the Moscow City's massive procurement and distribution system
consisting of 25 such bases. Under the ongoing privatization program, most of these bases have been
privatized. The Perovskaya has completed the privatization process while privatization of Sverdlovskoye
is und.frway.
Marketing Reforms
2.    Until 1991, tue Moscow City's fruit and vegetable bases worked under directions issued by the
City Government's Fruit and Vegetable Committee. In particular, the Committee directed all the bases,
as to how much quantities of the five main (often referred as political) commodities - potatoes, cabbage,
onions, carrots and red beets - must be received, stored, and distributed, and the prices at which these
commodities must be bought and sold. Consistrmt with the then prevailing practices of the command
economy, the City Government subsidized losses incurred by the bases.
3.    With the liberalization of fruit and vegetable marketing in 1992, the City Government did reduce
the magnitude of its interventions in the vegetable market. The bases' mandatory storage of the five
commodities during the past three years has decreased by about 40-50%, as also the subsidies provided
by the City Government. As for other commodities, the bases now enjoy almost total autonomy in
transacting business. The Moscow City Government's new policy is to further reduce the bases'
contrctual obligations concerning the five main commodities and related subsidies which should normally
be absorbed by the entire commercial food chain and the consumer. This process is however constrained
by the lack of adequate and efficient marketing infrastructure and the banking system that will provide
worldng capital and investment funds.
Markedng Operations.
4.    Currently, both producers and bases incur substantial losses as the products are shipped,
immediately after the harvest, without cleaning, sorting and grading. The storage facilities at the farin
level are inadequate and outdated. The emerging marketing strategy for perishables for major
consumption centers such as Moscow City focuses on shifting long-term storage to production centers.
In future, the bases will therefore increasingly undertake short-term storage; devote larger capacities to
high-value products; perform the role of a distribution center; and offer better quality products to
consumers at competitive prices.



209                                  ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 10
5.    Most bases have already begun to reduce long-term  storage and diversify the range of
commodities handled, focussing of storage of high value products, leasing of short-and long-term storage
capacity to commercial enterprises, improving quality and presentation of goods, offering full-service
storage and marketing facilities, including stock management, inventory control, grading, packaging,
training of workers and construction of market facilities. Leasing operations and trading, outside the five
main vegetables, are the main sources of the bases' income.
Financial Condition.
6.    While the bases are going through a rapid transition in terms of ownership, management and
functions, they also face serious financial stringency, exacerbated by high rates of inflation which rapidly
reduce the real value of balance sheet items, including equity, receivables, payables and the bank loans.
The collection rates for receivables, in respect of products sold on credit to retail stores, are particularly
low. As a result, the bases often default on repayment of bank loans and other creditors. To reverse this
trend, the suppliers are . -ginning to demand advance payments from the bases, while the bases
increasingly want to resort to wholesale and cash and carry marketing rather that providing products to
retailers on credit.
7.    The size, characteristics, and age of the buildings of the bases are such that they cannot
competitively meet the demands of modern urban storage. The bases are heavily built and are not
particularly well laid out for easy movement of goods. The buildings and equipment have been used for
many years - while they are structurally sound, they are badly run-down.
8.    It is for this reason, the proposed project would not renovate old buildings which must be
demolished but instead introduce new marketing concepts such as wholesale and cash-and-carry
marketing, by developing infrastructure on lands owned by the bases and ensure that the cost is amortized
over a period of 7-10 years.
9.    In the prevailing inflationary environment, the financial condition of the two bases, Sverdlovskaya
and Perovskaya, is difficult to assess accurately given that the value of current assets and liabilities is fast
depreciating in real tenns. The bases, however, have large fixed assets (especially land and buildings)
at prime locations, which will continue to provide sizeable incomes, especially through leasing of cold
storage capacities to commercial users and trading in high value commodities.
10.    A summary of the balance sheets and income and expense account of the two bases is presented
in Annex Table 17.1. All these bases handle a substantial volume of business but their profits on trading
in the five main vegetables are relatively low; one base in fact had a negative margin in the first three
quarters of 1993 though the base is hopeful of reversing this situation in 1994 through more efficient
purchase, sales strategy and stock management. The bulk of the profit comes from non-operational
income the sustainability of which has not been proven. Clearly, the bases must focus on making the
operations in five main commodities more efficient and diversify to include high-value commodities. The
pilot projects are expected to assist the bases to achieve this objective.



210                                 ANNE  17
Page 3 of 10
Annex Table 1: Moscow City: Selected hdancial Indicators for Two Bases in November 1993
Item                    Sverdlovskaya        Perovskaya
Fixed Assets (Net of depreciation)                 97                  376
Commodity stocks on hand                          939                 3045
Current assets                                    1095                 884
(mainly accounts receivables)
Cash and bank balances                             43                  28
Total                                 2174                 4333
Equity, special funds, retained profits            173                 414
Long-term Liabilities, Long-term bank and          1
other loans
Short-term bank loans                             1435                 566
Accounts payable                                  565                 3353
Total                                 2174                 4333
Income (Before tax) (for 9 months)                155                  187
Gross margin on main commodities                  868                 1178
Operating cost (including VAT)                    963                 1130
Net margin on sale of main  commodities           - 95                 48
Net margin on sale of other commodities            1           _
Non-operational net income                        249                  139
11.   Since in the current inflationary environment, the income and expense accounts and the balance
sheets are not very reliable to determine the bases' eligibility for project loans, the bases will be required
to maintain separate accounts for project-assisted investments and a separate bank account to ensure that
receipts and payments are kept distinct from the bases' normal operations. The bases will ensure that the
income from project-assisted investments will not be used for cross-subsidizing the bases' non-project
operations. Sub-loan terms and conditions will include these aspects. The bases participating in the
project will mortgage land, project-assisted buildings and fixed assets, accompanied by a general charge
on all assets of the bases. The current assets for these bases are as follows: the Sverdlovskaya: land,13
ha, storage 36,200 tons (of which cold storage 12,200 tons); and Perovskaya: land 8.2 ha, storage:



211                                ANNEX 17
Page 4 of 10
63,300 tons (of which cold storage: 58,000 tons). Project sub-loans will be subject to agreed terms and
conditions. The two bases will have to raise down payment (at least up to 25 percent of the sub-project
cost) which they intend to do by asldng the prospective users of wholesale and cash and carry markets
to contribute and from renting of cold storage facilities to commercial users. These arrangements must
be firmed up before a sub-loan is approved. Approval of individual sub-loans will be subject to the
preparation of individual feasibility studies and the bases' agreeing to the above arrangements.
Moscow OBLAsT VEGETABLE SToRAGE AND ASSEMBLY FACLTEs
12.   The Moscow Oblast produces about 695,000 tons of vegetables (7% of Russia's total production)
and 1.2 million tons of potato (3% of Russia's total production). About 55,000 ha of land is under potato
cultivation and 16,500 ha under vegetables with 9000 ha under cabbage. In 1992, about 434,000 tons
of vegetables and 1.4 million tons of potato were shipped out of Moscow Oblast, with Moscow City
receiving about 34,004) tons of vegetables and 80, 000 tons of potato. While the Moscow Oblast accounts
for only about 23 % of the total quantities of potato sold through the fruit and vegetables bases in Moscow
City, the vegetables account for as high as 66% with cabbage accounting for 98%. The Moscow Oblast
thus plays an important role in supplying potatoes and vegetables to Moscow City.
13.   In Moscow Oblast, large scale producers (former state and collective farms) account for about
61% of the total area under vegetable and 36% of the total area under potatoes. However, during the
past three years, the area cultivated by large producers for potato and vegetables is declining in response
to competition offered by increasing numbers of private farms and household plots which produce mainly
potatoes and vegetables. This trend is forcing large producers to become more competitive in both
production and marketing of potato and vegetables given that they are now privatized (joint stock
companies) and have more economic freedom and incentives following the liberalization of prices, and
marketing reforms.
14.   The prevailing practice of moving large quantities of perishable produce through the winter into
Moscow City is uneconomical and is not likely to sustain as new storage capacities are built at the farm
level. Larger producers and the private farms increasingly want to hold products at the farm for securing
higher off-season prices and retailers directly, instead of through monopolistic fruit and vegetable bases
in Moscow City. This is forcing the bases to become more competitive and diversify.
15.   Existing storage capacities in Moscow Oblast are sizeable but inefficient involving considerable
losses. They do not reflect the real technical possibilities to accept and store produce during the entire
fall-spring period. The storage capacities at the five farms - Podmoskovnoye, Sergievskoye, Ozera,
Bunyatino and Kulikovsky - which are likely to participate in the project have only 5 to 40% of the
actual storage requirements. The feasibility studies of two typical farms - Bunyatino and Ozera-
indicated the following profile. of these farms and selected financial indicators are reported in Annex
Table 17.2.



212                                 ANNEX 17
Page 5 of 10
Annex Table 17.2: Moscow Oblast Farms: Selected Financial Indicators for Two Farms
Item                                                   Bunyatino Farm     Ozera Farm
(Oct 1, 1993)    (Jan. 1, 1993
Fixed assets (Net of depreciation)                         583               372
Commodity stocks on hand                                   391               87
Current assets (accounts receivable)                        86               143
Cash and bank balances                                      74               61
Total                                                 1134              513
Equity, special funds, retained profits                    731               488
Long-term loans                                             10
Current liabilities: short term bank loans                 249
Current liabilities: accounts payable                      144               25
Total                                                  1134              513
Income (before tax)                                        363               158
Bunyatio Farm
16.   The total area of Bunyatino farm is about 1,300 ha, of which 800 ha land is used for potato and
vegetable production. The average annual vegetable production is about 12000 tons but the production
potential can be increased to 25,000 tons. Main vegetables produced are cabbage (5000 tons) and table
beet (1200 tons). There is a primitive storage facility for seed potato for 500 tons and a vegotable cold
storage with a capacity of 2000 tons. The farm vas privatized in 1992 with an authorized capital of
Rubles 14 million. The total number of staff working on the farm is about 475. The pensioners depending
on the farm are 111. The farm can undertake all kinds of farn production, processing and marketing
activities. It is managed by a director, assisted by three deputy directors, and technical experts in
construction, engineering, agronomy, livestock and social affairs. The farm eamed a net income of over
Rubles 209 million in 1992 (according to Russian accounting practices).
Ozera Farm
17.   The Ozera farm is organized on a basis similar to Bunyatino farm. The total area of Ozera farm
is about 3181 ha of which 445 ha land is used for potato and vegetable production. The average annual
vegetable production is about 19000 tons comprising of 12,500 tons of cabbage,.2400 tons of carrots,
900 tons of red beets, and 300 tons of other green vegetables. The major constraint to improving farm
productivity is the lack of storage capacity on the farm. Currently, there is a primitive stock of 1,000 tons
and two vegetable stores with a capacity of 400 tons each constructed in late 1950s. The farm is a close
type of joint stock company founded under the 1990 law on enterprises and entrepreneurship. The total
number of members working on the farm is about 640. The farm can undertake all kinds of farm
production, processing and marketing activities. It is managed by a director, assisted by three directors,



213                                 ANNEX 17
Page 6 of 10
and technical experts in construction, engineering, agronomy, livestock and social affairs. The farm
earned a net income of over Rubles 154 million in 1992 (according to Russian accounting practices).
18.   The sub-loans for pilot projects will be subject to similar terms and conditions. The mortgage
of land and other fixed assets and the farms' commitment to efficiently manage the proposed cold storage
facilities and carry out productivity improvement plans will be the basis for sub-loan approval. The farms
participating in the project will contribute to sub-project costs by way of labor and materials for the civil
work; raising contributions from the prospective users of cold storage facilities; equity contributions by
members; and possibly local government contributions. The project-assisted cold storage facilities will
be accessible to private farms.
KUBANGIBRID (BARI) SEEDS COMPANY
19.   Kubangibrid seed company, which is expected to receive a project sub-loan for corn seed
production facility, is located in Gulkevichi Rayon of Krasnodar Kray. Its main activity is seed
production. It provides technical guidance on corn production to the farms in Krasnodar Kray, Rostov
and Stavropol Oblasts. I. also specializes in the production of corn parent lines for hybrid seeds
production.
20.   The company was privatized and registered as joint stock company in 1992. Private individuals
(23) hold 69.7% of the shares while 23% are contributed by group of three joint stock companies. The
balance of 7.3% of the share is held by an experimental station of RAAS. This seed company bought
an old Roskhleboprodukt (RKP) processing facility in 1992. It has renovated this facility with Russian
equipments to process about 1500 tons seed per year.
Ownership and Assets
21.   The company owns 13 ha of land and office buildings at Tikhoretzk. The Company leases 190
ha at village Kazanskaya for parent seed multiplication. Further, the company acquired, on 35 year lease,
a plot of 6 ha at village Ladozhskaya of Ustlobinskaya Rayon, which will be the site for establishing the
proposed seed processing facility. The company is constructing a seed store of 25, 000 tons capacity
at this site. It owns four harvesters, 5 trucks, 18 small transport vehicles, 2 cars, 1 truck crane, 5
tractors, and 3 seed-cleaning and grading equipments. The current (October, 1993) assets of the company
are valued at Rubles 523 millions. The proposed project site has all the utilities such as power, gas,
water supplies, drainage and sewerage. About 16,000 tons of raw hybrid corn seeds are produced within
a radius of 30 km of the proposed location of the unit.
Company Management
22.   The shareholder's general body is a principal decision making body and elects three members of
the Board of Directors, one each to represent the three groups of share holders. The Board functions as
an executive body of the company. It holds office for two years. The general body appoints the
Managing Director of the company. Board delegates part of its powers to the Managing Director as an
executive head of the company. Board of Directors convene Board meeting as and when necessary, but
at least once a month. The company publishes a well-documented statement of the results of the
performance, disclosing the interests of the company, which is passed by the general body meeting, for
circulation to public.



214                                 ANNEX 17
Page 7 of 10
Administrative Structure and Management
23.   The Managing Director, Deputy General Directors, Seed Processing Director, and Chief
Economist have considerable managerial experience. The Managing Director has twenty years of
experience in seed production management. The Director (Sales) has fourteen years of experience. Seed
Production Director (Chief Agronomist) has been a manager of seed production farm for 10 years.
Senior Book Keeper is a gradw.e with ten years' experience in book keeping and accounts management.
The seed production unit of the company has qualified agronomists, and plant breeders. They are trained
in seed technology and seed production management skills.
Traing Program
24.   The company does not have on its roll marketing experts with good qualification in marketing
management. The company wants to organize regular training programs to upgrade the technical and
managerial skills at all levels. The company realizes the need for the training in special cost accounting,
computerized data management and general management in production and processing. The managers
at higher level shall be exposed to the management skldls abroad. Special training is planned to
strengthen the marketing section of the company.
Sources of Parent Seeds
25.   Corn hybrid seed parent lines are obtained from the following Research Institutes:
o Yugo-Vostok Research Institute, Srednevolzhskoe NPO, Saratov Region;
e Elita Povolzhia Research Institute, Bezenchuk, Saniara Region;
o Kinelskaya Variety Testing Station, Samara Region;
o VIR Experimental Station in Kuban, Botanical, Gulkevich Rayon, Krasnodar
26.   The company gives 1.0 to 2.5% of the profit to the research institutes for the technical service
and parent seeds provided to the Company over and above the parent seed costs. During 1992, this
profit share provided to the Institute was Ruble 13 million.
Seed Production Program
27.   The company now produces the following hybrid corn seeds:
(i) Very early maturing varieties:
FAO 160 Series
150 SV  1993        (For grain/ silage)
Bemo                   181 SV  1985
Kollektivni           170 MV  1994
Kollektivni           160 MV  1994
Kollektivai           172 MV  1994



215                                  ANNEX 17
Page 8 of 10
(ii) Mid-Early maturing variety:
FAO-200 and above
TOS                   246 MV  1993 (grain/ silage)
(iii) Medium maturity varieties:
FAO-300 and above
KOS                   389 MV   1993 (grain)
(iv) Mid-Late varieties:
FAO-400-500
Dneprovski            472 MV   1988 (grain, silage)
Moldavski             425 MV   1988
KOS                   433 SV    1993 (grain, silage)
(v) Late variety:
FAO-500-600
KOS                   600 AESV  1991  (grain, silage)
28.    Because of its good quality, farmers prefer to buy the seed produced by the company even
without the govermnent subsidy. Corn is mainly grown (90%) for the green fodder (silage). The
percentage of investment toward seeds, for the commercial corn grain or silage production, constitutes
hardly six to eight percent. The price of F1 seed however, is higher i.e. 14 to 15 times the normal
grains. The price of parent seeds for Fl seeds production is four to five times (depending upon the
variety and the maturity period) that of Ft hybrid seeds.
29.   The pre-basic and basic seeds of the corn hybrid are produced at present by the Russian Crop
Research Institutes of RAAS, their affiliated Regional Research Farms in the experimental stations. First
generation (Fl) seeds are produced in kolkhozes, sovkhozes and private farmers. Production target for
the first stage of the project is 5,000 tons of processed seeds annually. Area under production is more
than 3000 ha. An area of about 2500 to 3000 ha is essential for the dependable production of 5000 tons
of processed hybrid corn seeds. Company is proposing to expand its activity to produce 10,000 tons of
processed seed in the second stage.
Quality Control
30.   Seed quality testing will be carried out by the trained staff. Manager-Seeds Production supervises
the area of 2.5 to 3.0 thousand ha. Company sends the seed samples to the state-run seed inspection
system for testing The seed inspectorate issues certificate cn seed vigor, purity, germination and other
a characteristics of seed processed at the facility. The fee paid for the services rendered by state-run
inspections is according to the norm fixed by the seed inspectorate from time to time. The conpany
however conducts field inspection regularly. It inspects the field and guides the growers on:
e     selection of land, land preparation and isolation of plots;
Q     receipt of parent seeds, planting methods, protection through training;
°      sowing operation and weed control;
°     provide package of cultivation practices;



216                                ANNEX 17
Page 9 of 10
°     field purity maintenance and technical supervision for off plant identification  and
removal;
O     supervision of parent line and determination of biological crop maturity and yield; and
o     harvesting and finalizing delivery schedule to processing center.
31.   License is needed to market seeds outside the oblast. The license is issued by oblast/kray
Department of Agriculture. The Government provides varietal testing and seed testing for the quality
control support.
Packaging and Labeling
32.   The company's seeds are proposed to be packed in four-layered paper bags to ward off moisture
and to improve the quality of seeds during storage and the presentation of the compaiiy's logo and
packaging style of its own identity. Each bag will contain 25 kg of seed and will be labelled w;ih. the
following information printed on:
*      Company's Trade Mark
°      Name of the hybrid seed variety
0      Status of germination percentage and the generation
o      Year of harvest
o      Name of the seed treatment chemical used
0      Warning about the human toxicity and nature of poison
*      Lot number of the seed grower
o      Shift number and date Processing
*      Fraction specification and grade.
Seed Marketing Plan
33.   The seed demand in these oblasts and krays is of the order of 170,000 tons. The company is
planning to produce 50% of its total seed production with shorter duration varieties of FA 160 - 300 and
the balance 50% with longer maturity varieties of FAO 400 -600. The FAO 160 - 300 will be to meet
the demand of the Central Russia and Siberia market and the FAO 400 - 600 is to meet the market
demand of North Caucasus region. The company will produce these varieties of seeds on contract basis.
34.   Hybrid seeds of different maturity groups are proposed to be produced, processed, packed, stored
and marketed. Since the market system is not well developed and the supply is less than the demand
there is no problem with retail sales at present. Large collective and state farms are the main clients of
the company. The distribution of the seeds at present is regulated by the oblast government; however
the company uses the government channel for distribution of its product. The company uses the
government departmnent to disseminate the information about the company seeds to the clients. However
the company has direct contact with major large collective famns and etnters into contract for seed supply.
As the production increases, the company is planning to set up its own independent market network of
retailers working directly with the company.



217                                 ANNEX 17
Page 10 of 10
Projected Market Share
35.   The company organizes corn grain production and corn cultivation in the following area:
°      40,000 to 45,000 ha in Krasnodar Kray;
0      20,000 to 25,000 ha in Rostov Oblast; and
O      4,000 to 5,000 ha in Stavropol Kray
36.   About 150,000 tons of com grain is produced in Krasnodar alone. When the Kubangibrid facility
is established it will produce 5,000 tons of seed in Ladhovskaya and it will also continue producing 5,000
tons in Tikhoretzk. Thus in all it will be producing 10,000 tons of seeds.
Capital Investment
37.   The proposed seed processing facility requires modern processing and calibration and seed
treating equipments which has to be imported from abroad. The company entrusted the work of
preparing feasibility studies to Giproselkhoszerno (GSZ). The institute has qualified Civil, Mechanical
and Design Engineers with substantial experience in the area.
38.   It is also essential for the Company to have good quality combines to quickly harvest the crops
on time to maintain high quality standard of hybrid seeds. It is also necessary to have de-tasseling
equipments and vehicles for quickly transporting the fresh ears immediately after harvest to the processing
units. Provisions for all the modern equipments and machineries are made in the project. The proposed
processing unit design is contemplated to have good dust control system to protect from any possible fire
accidents and to maintain high level of hygiene condition in the seed unit for the safety of workers. These
dust control systems are to be installed in the shelling, cleaning and grading sub-units.
39.   Foreign exchange will be used to finance the imported seed processing equipment, whereas the
finance charges, the civil works, the working capital, and some of the local equipment will be in ruble
expenses. Seed processing equipment is exempt of import duties as per: (i) the law of Russia's
Federation "About customs tariff" clause 35 item (K); and (ii) the Order of State Customs Committee
of Russia's Federation No: 228 from June 11, 1993.



218                                  ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 5
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
AGRICULTURAL REFORM [MPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (ARIS) PROJECT
LIsT OF DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
MARKET INFRA-crRucruRE DEVELOPMENT
Preparation Reports
1.    ARIS Project - Primary and Wholesale Market Development Component, Russia, Preparation
Mission's field report, two volumes, August 1993.
2.    ARIS Project - Market Development Component, Preparation Mission's Report, Three Volumes,
January 1994.
3.    ARIS Project - Establishment of Market Information System, Russia, Preparation Mission's
Report, November 1993.
4.    Russian Federations - Rural and Wholesale Market Development Technical Assistance, consultant
report by W.R. Kriebel, 1993
Mnistry of Agriculture and Food Reports and Documents
1.    Fornation of Organized Markets in Agro-industrial complex - Methodological Considerations,
by Mr. A. Kopylov, MOAF, Moscow, 1993
2.    System of Information on Markets of Agricultural Commodities and Food, by L. Kholod,
T. Ukhanova and S. Strokov, MOAF, Moscow, 1993
Other Docunents
1.    Concept of Moscow Region's Programe of Agro-industrial Development - Moscow Regional
Council of People's Deputies, Moscow, 1992
2.    Rural Market and Food Distribution Development in Russia, draft final report by the Euroconsult
(for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development), January 1992.



219                                 ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 5
FARMER INFORMATION AND ADviSORY SERvmCE
Preparation Reports
1.    Farmer Information System, Preparation Mission, Team member Report, M.L. Olson: Multi-
media Specialist, August 1993.
2.    ARIS Computer System Design Rationale and Plan - Open System Associates,Inc., 19 January
1994.
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Reports and Documents
1.    Transfer of Technology Services in Russia, Sector Work -Main Administration of Science and
Technological Progress, The RF Ministry of Agriculture, Scientific and Research Institute of
Information and Technical and Economic studies in Engineering and technical Provision of Agro-
industrial Complex, Moscow 1993.
2.    All Russian Scientific Research Institute of innovation problem and Marketing in Agro Industrial
Complex, Ministry of Agriculture of Russian Federation.
3.    List of Scientific Research Institutes financed by Ministry of Agriculture of Russia from
Government budget as of 01/05/93.
4.    Establishment of Consultant Information Services for Agricultural production in all types of
industry - MCX RF, VNIIM, GVS, Russian academy of management and Agribusiness, AO
Russian agricultural information agancy-Oct 1993. (Russian)
Other Documents
1.    Agricultural Education and Training in Russian Federation - Russian Academy of Agricultural
Sciences, Agrarian Institute, Moscow, 1993.
2.    List of Government TeleRadio organizations in Russian Territory.
3.    Establishment of Public Information System Project - Project proposal, Russian Agricultural
Information Agency, Moscow, 20 January 1993 (Russian).
4.    Actual questions came up on Federal KIS, Regional KIS and Rayon KIS on 01/06/93 (Russian).
5.    Towards Integration of Agricultural Research and Education-Agrarian Reform and Emerging
needs for Integration of Research, Education and extension.
6.    Agricultural Research in Russia, Analytical summary and proposals - Professor Lazovskij V.V.
7.    Integration of Agrarian High Educational and Research Institutions in Russia, A model- Working
Paper.



220                                  ANNEX 18
Page 3 ofS
8.    Institutional System and Support Services - Moscow. 1993.
SEED iNDUsTRy DEVELOPMENT
Preparation Reports
1.    ARIS- Project Identification Mission Report- April 1993. by Walter Migus,
2.    ARIS- Project Identification Mission report -April 1993 by Carl Pray,
3.    ARIS- Project Preparation Mission Report - July, 1993 by Walter Migus,
4.    ARIS- Project Preparation Mission Report - July 1993 by Gary Reusche of Euroconsult
5.    ARIS - Project Appraisal Mission Report - December 1993 by Walter Migus,
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Reports and Documents
1.    General Position Statement on the Functions and Responsibility of Division of Crop Prod .ction,
Ministry of Agriculture, Russian Federation. As approved by Minister for Agricuhure.(in
Russian) As of March, 16' 1993.
2.    Seed Development in Russia - a concept paper of MOAF (in Russian) as approved by Dy,
Minister for Agriculture, MOA, RF. As of March 1993.
3.    Policy of seed pricing: A paper on the methodology and principle of seed price fixing by the
government. The paper deals with the formula employed for the price determination for cereals
such as Wheat, Corn, Sunflower, Rape-seed, soya, etc. The economic data collection section,
crops division, MOA, RF June 1993. (Russian)
4.    Proposal of Ministry of Agriculture, Government of Russia, for the seed industry Development
in Russia to the Bank Mission in May 1993, as a part of the ARIS component, Moscow (Russian)
May 1993.
5.    Seed development Program for Russia - A basic approach . (In Russia) This is a report prepared
by Mr. Lyapochkin and Ms.Irina Sondamirskaya in association with Seed Division in the Ministry
of Agriculture. the paper provides details of the seed development mostly assuming centralized
role of the Government for seed development in Russia. The data provided are basically from the
GOSKOMSTAT.
6.    Seed Industry development through cooperation from THE WORLD BANK - a proposal for
World Bank assistance for seed development in Russia, (Russian) submitted to the Bank mission
in May 1993 by MOA.
7.    Quantity of different classes of seeds produced during 1985 -1992 for various crops in Russia.
A tabular presentation in Russian. Provided to the Mission by the Seed Division of Ministry of
Agriculture, during April 1993.



221                                  ANNEX 18
Pale 4 of 5
Other Reports and Documents
1.    Working Paper on Seed Component, (CILAG) Report of T. V. Sampath. April 1992.
2.    Program for the Agrarian Reform and Development of agro-industries In Russian Federation for
1993-1995 and up to Year 2000, Moscow 1992. (A draft of the program in Russian).
3.    Development of Seed Industry in Russia, A paper by Sarova and Irina of institute of Economic
Analysis. April 1993.
4.    System of Varietal testing in Russia- a proposal for the development of the system (in Russia) -
This is the proposal Document provided by the GOSSORTKOMISSIA during April 1993 to the
mission for Bank assistance.
5.    Governm nt Varietal testing system in Russia- a position statement (Russian) October 1992.
6.    Techno-Economic report on the proposed Seed Project of "KAVKAZ  SEMINA" in
ORLOVSKAYA RAYON, of Agricultural Research Station OPX in STAVROPOL Oblast at the
oblast level visit. March -1993.
7.    The Techno-Economic analysis details prepared for Orlovski Seed Company in Stavropol Oblast
with an idea of establishing a Joint-Venture with Pioneer Seed Company ( Analytical Details as
of March -1991.
8.    Techno-Economic Report for the corn facility of "OPX-ROSSIA" in Nikoloaiski Rayon in
Volgograd Oblast.(Russian) prepared by the GI?ROSELKOZERNO of Krasnodar April 1992.
9.    Results of the Corn Varietal trials conducted at the Orlovski- A leaf-let on Corn field day of
scientists and farmers meet at "KOLKHOSE ORLOVSKI" 1989. (Russian) provides a
comparative picture of the Pioneer Hybrid Corn Seeds v/s local.
10.   Accounting in Farm Production activities, Part m, AKKORINFORMISDAT, Moscow 1991.
(Russian).
11.   Ownership- Land and Private Property, series No:5, AKKORINFORMISDAT, Moscow 1992.
(Russian)
12.   ORGANIZATION OF FARMER'S FARMS, Series 2, (Russian), Akkorinformisdat, Moscow
1992.
13.   Reorganization of Kolkhozes in to Associations, Akkorinformisdat, Moscow 1992, (Russian).
14.   Terminology in Market Economy, series 8, (Russian) Akkorinformisdat, Moscow 1992.
15.   Organizing a Farm for Profitable Farming, Series 9, (Russian) Akkorinformisdat, Moscow 1993.



222                                 ANNEX 18
Page 5 of 5
16.   Strengthening of Government Seed Control system in Russia, (Russian) A proposal of the Seed
Inspection Directorate (GOSSEMINSPEKTSIA) for world bank assistance, Aprii 20, 1993.
17.   Statement on Government Seed Control Service System in Russia, (Russian).
18.   AGREEMENT- on Co-Operative Action between Experimental Scientific firm  "ROSSISKAYA
SEMINA" and PODMOSKOVIA- A Scientific Production Union of Non-Black soil research
center near Moscow. March 16, 1993.
19.   Elite and First Generation Corn seeds produced by Scientific research Institutes 1981 to 1990 -
(a table in Russian) April 1993.
20.   Information about 'ROSSISKAYA SEMINA' (Russian), A brief write up about the Russian seed
Corporation an agency of the Government, formed under the Ministry of Agriculture, to deal
with seed.
21.   Proposal of the "ZOLOTHOI POCHATHOK" for corn seed facility as prepared by
"GIPROSELKHOZERNO", presented to the World Bank Identification Mission during March
1993. (Russian).
22.   Feasibility Study report for Corn seed production facility by Kubangibrid (BARI) seed company
November 1993, prepared by GIPROSELKHOZERNO, Krasnodar, (Russian) as per World Bank
guidelines.
23.   Feasibility study report for corn seed facility by Kadgoroan seed Company, of North-Ossetia
(Russian), prepared by GIPROSELKHOZERNO, at Krasnodar, as per World Bank
guidelines, November 1993.
24.   Feasibility Report for corn seed production facility by Zolotoi pochathok in Pavlovski Rayon, of
Voronezh oblast (Russian) prepared by GIPROSELKHOZERNO OF Krasnodar, October 1993,
25.   Feasibility study Report for Sunflower facility by Chernozeniia, in Belgorod. November 1993.
26.   A map indicating the corn growing (for grain and Silage) belt in Russia.
27.   Sunflower leaflets (7) for Peredovik, Berezanski, Pochin (Hybrid), Lider, Improved-VNIMIK
8883, and Confectionery varieties. Brought out by the Pustovit National Institute for Oilseed
Research, at Krasnodar. (Russian).
28.   New Varieties, Introduction, Multiplication, and Dispersion, A Scientific Collection of Papers,
Brought out by Russian Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Moscow-1992. (Russian)
29.   Nauchno Poisvodstvinnoe Obegineniya (NPO) Podmoskovie - a leaf-let (Russian) on the Scientific
activities in breeding and varietal selection at the Nemchikova, Non-Chernozem Research center
of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Moscow.



| ~         -.                                                    '                                                       >    ^~   >    ~  ~  \    A  OA    r   T I f C f%   'AK AA  ) I
IBRD 25149
KILOMETERSO             530                                                                               RUSSIAN  FEDERATION                                                                                   o  .  ,              U.S.A. .'
MILES o                 400                                                  AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (ARIS) PROJECT
MARKET INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
OBLAST, KRAI OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES                                                  { f           S
MARKET INFORMATION SYSTEM                   AUTONOMOUS OBtAST, OKRUG OR
UNITED                               Norwegian                                                                                       REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES 
MARKET DEVELOPMENT                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                               East
,including Republics of Adygeyu, Altai, KarochliiCherkess and Khokosio.                     Sibericn
_ _ _ _ _ _ __:_ _ _ _ __'_ _ _ _ _ __'_ _ _ _ __-_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __._ _ _ _ __._ _ _ _ _ _ _ ._ _  S eo
ARTCOCEAN
NORWAY                                                   Barents                                   a   >tA R C r I c o c E A N    g                                    4    ,a                 ,   lo
UKAIN    /g;Je  ~2\  -~MOGLAy~   S on
Sev~~~~~~~~~~~~8                                             e
..Seo
S 1RIA*hnesoc                                                                                                                                                       Theos  1ondri.   colorsa brs  7.S  nnkaaols  S.Prsoi  bt7. dnenomination kaidayohritrnso
2. Nenetshil Autonomous oknug                  20. Tverskoia oblost                     38. Srartauskelo oblost                     56. Komi-Pemiyalskoio autonomous okrug               74. Republic of Khokouio
3. Republic of Karelia                         21. Tul'skaia oblast                     39. Republic of Toalruton                   57. Sverdlovskaio oblasl                             75. Taimyrsh'i IDoIgano-Nenelsk~ii ostoriomaus okrua
4. Republic of Komi                            22. Vlodimirskoie ablest                .40. Ulionovskoio oblost                     58. Udmurt Republic                                  76. Evenhliskuii autonomous okrug
5. Murmanukioa obloul                          23. loroslovukalo oblost                 41. Volgogrodukeloaoblost                   59. Altoishli knai                                   77. Republic of Tuvo
6. Vologodskoio ablest                         24. Republic of Chuvosh                  42. Republic of Degeston                    60. Republic of Ahita                                78. Amuruksol ablest
7. St. Petensburg                              25. Kiroeskoic oblost                    43. Chechsen Republic and Ingush Republic   6i1. Kemerovskoio oblaut                             79. Komchotskaio ablost
8. Leningrodskaia oblosl                       26. Republic of Marii-EI                 44. Kabordina-Bolkor Republic               62. Novosibinskaioaoblest                            80. Karik'i autonomous oknug
9. Novgorogskeio ablest                        27. Mondovian Republic                   45. Krosnodertkii krei                      63. Oruskae aoblost                                  81. Khobnorvskii brai
10. Pskovskoio ablest                           28. Nizhniy Noyeorod oblast              46. Republic of Adygeya                     64. Tomukoica blest                                  82. Jewvish autonomous ablest
11. Brionukoloa blest                          '29 Belgorodskaia oblout I                47. Norlth-Osetien Republic                 65. Tyumenskeo aoblast                               83. Mogodonskaia ablast
12. lvonovskaio oblast                          30. Kurnsboi ablest                      48. Rostovskaioaoblast                      66. Khonly.Monsdisli autonomous okrug                84. Chukotshii outonomous okrug
13. Kolucliukoica blest                         31. Lipetskoia ablest                    4°. Stowropolskil Iurai                     67. Yamal-Nenets autonomous obrug                    85. Primorskii kroi
14. Kosmomskaioa blest                          32. Toinbouskoloacblest                  S0. Korechol-Cherkess Republic              68. Republic of Euryotiia                            86. Sokholinukoio ablest
.l.IdozQkayskaic2ablost                         33. Voroneshukolo ablest                  51. Republic of Bostikerlostan              69. Chitinskoia oblast                               87. Republic af Sakhua (Yakuha)(
JtooSCOa   Cily                                  34. Aclrekhenskoia ablest                52. Cheliobinskaia ablest                   70. Aginskii Buryatskii autonomous obrug             88. Koliningradsbaoia blest
17. Orlayskojo ablbst                           35. Republic of Kalmyhda                 53. Kurgonslcejo ablest                     71. Idkcutskoia obbost
18. Riozooskoic ablest                          36. Penzenskoio ablast                   54. Orenburgskoiao ablost                   72. Ust'-Odnisnsdi Buryolskii autonomous akrug
JUNE 1994



IBRD 25150
KILOMETERSO              500                                                                               RUSSIAN   FEDERATION                                                                                      *                   U.S.A.    -
MILES o                  400                                                 AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (ARIS) PROJECT                                                                                    (   "
FARMER INFORMATION AND ADVISORY SERVICE COMPONENT
OBLAST, KRAI OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
-- AUTONOMOUS OBLAST, OKRUG OR
-ONITED                                Norwceaion                                             POTENTIAL PROJECT AREA                    REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES'
KINGDOM           '                        Sea                                                                                      0  MOSCOW(16i
.-  _    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                               fisi                84
'Including Republics of Adygeya, AItoi, Karachoi-Cherkess and Khokosia.         *                                      -
No i               *                                                                                                                                                                         Son
AR( r  T   C  Gil.E A N
NORWAY                                                    &i ns                                                                                                                                                                  s
Sea
_IDENMRK EE  ; 4;,;A
.~~~~~~~~~~,                                                                                Lopl. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~80
75~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
z   V.i     -                   f *ufi Ro! In                     t                                             KoraJD *                                  ]IC                           
£ ''       - B aflhc     f    FINLAND           ffXvzr                                                                                                                                                    83      (. 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~I
POLAND                      -~~~~      -                                2 0Sea
of
BELARUS                                     )-                                                                                                                           ,io                   lOkhotsk
4                                                 67      i~~~~
00                                                                                                                                                                                                          818
0                                                                                                                                          76
5. M UrmonsKsiaabist                    3. orsleskoo ofNE                        4.              oob                           9. hciWi  i77  epuliccf uv
3  57~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
48  41       >37i~~~~~~5                                                                        7
45 i'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8                                                                                                                         u
44                                                                                                                                                  85       Se~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ci
6. VoloGoEOsk GIA oblostJ24. Repubak of Chuvosh                                     42. Republic of DagesnJAP60. Republic of Altui                                                     78. Amurskaia obl                              JP
SYRIA                                                                    60~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HN 
AR  S.PKrbr                                        5  itskJools                               3  hce   cpbkoe  rgs  ouS .                                                   Th   oundaries.a oblast  7. deominatskion  an   ay   thr,norst
AZE Pslaio oblost          28. Nizhniy Novgorod oblo t               46. Repu   of                                64.shon on thios                                   8ap do       impl,h on tho   pot of Th. World Bank
MONGOLIA                   Gru,ay jg.  ent on the  ea  ttso   n   ert,o   n
IRAQ              ~~~~~TURK                       x                                                             N                                                  endrsemnt or aeptance `of Su-Ch bou.-ndt'ear,es.        t''      "
1. Arkhongelskaio oblost                        19. Smolenskaia oblbst                    37. Somarskoic oblost                        55. Penmnskoio oblost                                 73. Krosnoiorsldi kroi
2. N.nereskii Autonomous okrug                  20. Tverskaio oblost                      38. SoratPvsio obbst                         56. Komi-Permyoltskii autonomous okrug                74. Republic Of Khokosio
3. Republic of Karelia                          21. TuLiskoio oblost                      39. Republic of Tkwrotn                      57. Sverdlovskoio oblost                              75. Taimyrskii IDolganoeNenetskii) autonomous okrug
4. Republic of Komii                            22. Aordimirskio oblost                   40. Ulionowki-o oblRs u                      58. Udmurt Republic                                   76. Evenkiiskii autonomous okrug
5. Murmonskaia oblost                           23. laroulavskoni oblost                  41. VogR odsoafio oblost                     59. Altaiskii krai                                    77. Republic of Tuva
6. Vologodskoio oblot                           24. Republkc of Chuvabs                   42. Republic of Dageton                      60. Republic of A    utai                             78. Amurskoio oblost
7 St. PetersburgD                               25. Kpirousklio oblost                    43. ChKue Republic and nst gush R7ubric      61. Kenuerovskoia oblost                              79. Komchotskoio oblost
18. Leningradsklio  oblst                       26. Republic of Mobli-E                   44. Kobordino-Boikar Republic                62. tvObinsrkioia *b                                  80. Koriokii autonomous okrug
9. =ogrgkoio oblost                             27. Mordovian Republic                    45. KrounodarsIdi kroi                       63. Omukoio oblout                                    81. Khobotrovskii kroi
10. Puouoiobast                                  28. Nizhniy Novgorod oblast               46. Republic of Adygeyo                      64. Tomskoia oblost                                   82. Jewish autonomous obloist
1 1. Briocnskaia oblost                          29. Belgaordskaia eblast                  47. North-Osetien Republic                   65. Tyumenskoio oblost                                83. Magodnskiai oblcast
12. IvonQvskia aWlast                            30. Kursklcl obkas                       48. Roetovelcaus obkout                      66. Khanty-Mansiisldi autonomous okcrug               84. Ch.kotskil autonomous okrug
13 Koluzhskoio oblost                            31. Lipetskaic oblast                     49. Stavrpolskii krci                        67. Yamal-Nenets auitonomous okrug                    85. Primorsukii krai
14. Kostromskaio oblast                          32. Tombovskwca oblost                    50. Korachai-Cherkess Republic               68. Republic of Buryatlia                             86. Sakhalinskaic oblast
15. Moskonskalo oblos                            33. VorornezlsukioobIout                  51. Reubric of8Bashckortsont                 69. Chifinskaia oblast                                87. Republic of Sakho (Yakutia)
16. Moscow City                                  34. Astrokhoncskaio oblost                52. Clwliabinikoo oblast                     70. Aginskii Buryatkidi autonomous okcrug             88. Kaliningradskaia oblast
17. Orlovskoio oblost                            35. Republic of Kcilniyko                 53. Kurganekoo oblost                        71. Irkutskaioi obloet
18. Riroonskola oblost                           36. Penzenskoio oblost                    54. Orenburaukola ablasst                    72. Ust'.Ordynsldi Buryotukii autonomous okrugj
JUNE 1994



Nt )WVAY         -           _       f      _r.                        cJuiaia
KILOMETERSO             500                                                                             RUSSIAN  FEDERATf10N                                                                                       -   - ,   ,      U.S.A.
MILES o                 400                                               AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (ARIS) PROJECT
SEED INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Potential poiect area for seed production            Oblast, Krai or Republic boundaries                                     , s'
Zone where corn is grown for groin and               Autonomous Oblout Okrug or                                        .          .
Norwegian                          ~~~~~~~seed rclvdion (approm 1.4 million ha.)          Republc bonaris.
VNITEO--. .                          Norw.-eoPon                                    Zone w ere corn is grown only for
KINGDOM                                   Se                                            iaeiheuapo.25mlinaI0                               Moscow I16)
Zone were corn is grown primarily for reen            Itrainlbudre
fodder silage japprox. 6.0 million ho.I                                                               Lost       .       84
Sums of mean durnal temperatures                 fndisRP2blics of Ad n,Altui                          S,ba.riu,i      
Ncrl                                                                              (sums of days temperature >1 CI C                     Cr       n d Kho s                              Sbu        '
NORWAY                                                   B aorents                                        -                                                                 - . 
J   DENMus\ARK J;WEDEN                        J %                        Sea    ARCTIC OCEA N
Koro                        ~~~~~~~Lopie80
z     -                           f rG5lfct1S°S                                                        -
9          -  --~Baltic         rINLAND
(D          R          14 SrAEbIJN>/ e                  T                                                                onShs oo.n°°ti°t°nstha tyo T h   o l   vn
PLAND                                                                                                                                                                                           ..
BELARUS                                     NOfhrl
z
UK17
2 8 Neeskiutnmoskug        2  Teski ols                      3   artvsanols                           5   om-emy         oauoomu ong                 4Rpulco  haai
3  epbicfanle             1Tusoioba                        3   epbicfobton5  Senlvsoaolst7  Tiyrki(55                                                                           86eetk)atomuok-
) Block                                            54
CORNSEED  76St9Petersburg                 25 Kinavsksiaoblost              43 ChechenRepublicondIngushRepublic    61 Kernerovskoiooblost                          79 Komcholskoioob8cst
49                                                                                       62                                   71igoseools   6Rpbi  fMri-I4   aadn-okrRpbi   2Nvsbiieoolf8   oikiatnm     ku
TURKEY   3GIA               -A                                                                                                                                                                                                            JAPAN
CHINA
A.R.  JAN   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Isbo-daries, aers-, deoiatosad  any  oth.,c  ncirf.-on
uhoen on thft mop do riot imply,..o the pert ef The World Bontk
MONGOLIA                Gtacp, any judgment on the leg.1 statu  o   ny te-iform  or any
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~edorsement o accpt-nc of suchbonais
1. Arkhongelskaic oblost         19. Smolenskaia oblast            37. Somorskolo oblast                    55. Pernmskoio oblost                        73. Krasnoiorskii krui
2. NSnetskii Autonomous akrug    20. Tverskiai oblost              38. Sorotovskoionablest                  56. Kormi-Permytskaia autonomous okrug       74. Republic of Khaoksio
3. Republic of Karelic           21 .Tul'skaia oblost              39. Republic of Toiorstan                57. Sverdloeskoia oblest                     75. Taimyrskii (Datgano-NenetsUi autonomous okruag
4. Republic of Komi              22. C Ald 30   irskoiraoblost     40. Ulisnovskoia oblast                  58. Udmurt Republic                          76. Evenld8skii autonomous okrug
5 mumanuskaia oblost             23. laroslvaskaiaoablest          41. Volgogrodskaiio oblest               59. AYoisidi raio                            77. Republic of Tuva
PRZOJECT OBLASTS KRAIS1 REPUBLICS      6: Vologodskoio ablost           24. Republic of Chuvosh           42. Republic of Dageston                 60. Republic of Altai                        78. Amurskoio oblost
C S7. St. Petersburg              25. Kirovskeaicoblest             43. Chechen Republic nd Ingush Republic    61. Kenerovskaia oblost                   79. Komchatskoia oblest
S   8. Le3ingrodskoi ablest      26. Republic of Mor-El            44. Kabordino-Balkor Republic            62. Navosibiyskala oblest                    80. Korickii autonomous okrug
9. Novgorogskoia oblost          27. Mordovian Republic        .   45. Krasnodarskii kroi                   63. Omnslkai ablest                          81. Khobarovskii krui
$SUNFLOWER SEED               1 0. Pskovskoia oblest             28. Nizhniy Novgorod oblest      46. Republic of Adygeyc                  64. Tomskaia ablest                           82. Jewish autonomous oblast
I1. Brianskoi oblast              29. Belgorodskaic oblest          47. North5Osetien Republic               65. Tyomenskaoa ablest                       83. Magodonskoica oblast
CORN SEED AND/OR            12. Ivanovskolaoabletst            30. Kurskaia ablest           .48. Rostevskailoablest                      66. Khoniy.Mansiiukii autonomous okrug       84. Chukotskii autonomous okrug
SUNFLOWER SEED             13. Koluzhskai oablest             31. Lipetskaoi oblost             49. Stn  plkii kaol                      67. Yomal-Nenets autonomous okrug            85. Primorskii kroi
14. Kostromskeia ablest           32. Tambaoukaio ablest            50. =aac 'lCherkvuss Republic            68. Republic of Burytiia                     86. Sakhafinskai oablejst
15. Moskovskoia ablest         . .33. Voronezhskaia oblest          51 . Republic of Boshkortoston           69. Chitinskala oblest                       87. Republic of Sakhe lYakutie)
16. Moscow City                   34. Astrokhonskaia ablest         52. Cheliabinskaia oblast                70. Aginskii Buryolnkii autonomous oknug     88. Kaliningrodskoio ablest
17. Odloyskalo ablest           .35. Republic oyf Kalmykio          53. Kurganukaoi oblest                   71. Irkutukoicoablest
18. Rioazonskoioablast            36. Penzenskoio oblest            54. Orenburgskoiooblost                 72. Ust'-Ordynskii Buryotskiioutonomous ekrug
JUNE 1994



