Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18753
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR 2039-GH)
December 22, 1998
Water and Urban 2
Country Department 10
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cedi (C)
US$1.00 = C  228 (annual average exchange rate 1988)
= C  270       (1989)
= C  330       (1990)
= C  368       (1991)
= C  437       (1992)
= C  652       (1993)
= C  957       (1994)
= C 1,200      (1995)
= C 1,635      (1996)
=C 2,050       (1997)
= C 2,544      (1998)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kin)          = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kdlometer (km2)   = 0.386 square miles (mi2)
1 liter (1)                = 0.22 Imp. galls. or 0.264 US galls.
1 cubic meter (m3)         =  1,000 liters or 220 Imp. galls. or 264 US galls.
1 million gallons per day (mgd) = 4,500 cubic meters (m3) per day
ABBREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS
ADC            Austrian Development Corporation
AFD            Agence Francaise de Developpement
AfDB           African Development Bank
ATMA           Accra-Tema Metropolitan Area
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
DFID           Department for International Development
ECG            Electlicity Corporation of Ghana
GOG            Government of the Republic of Ghana
GWSC           Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
IDA            International Development Association
ODA            Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PCMIU          Project and Construction Management Unit
PMC            Project Management Consultant
VRA            Volta River Authority
Vice President:         Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director:       Peter Harrold, AFCIO
Sector Manager:         Letitia A. Obeng, AFTU2
Team Leader:             David Henley, AFTU2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR 2039-GH)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...............i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ..................                      ,                                                                        ii
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ........................................                                                   1
A. Background .........................................1
B.   Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .........................................1
C. Achievement of Objectives ........................3......3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project .............................7
E. Project Sustainability .............................8
F. Bank Performance .............................                                                                                  8
G. Borrower Performance .............................8
H. Assessment of Outcome ...............................9
I. Future Operation .............................9
J. Key Lessons Learned .............................9
Part II. STATISTICAL TABLES ............................                                                                             12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ............................                                                                      13
Tabl e 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .............................. 14
Table 3 - Project Timetable ............................                                                                          14
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated &  Actual ............................................                         14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ............................................                                  15
Table 6A: Targeted and Achieved Output ............................................                                              16
Table 6B: Planned &  Actual Implementation Schedule ............................................                                 17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project* ............................................                                               18
Table 8A: Project Costs* .............................................                                                           19
Table 8B: Actual Project Financing* ............................................                                                 20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .............................................                                               21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ............................................                                                 21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................................                             22
Table 12: Financial/Operational Indicators ............................................                                          22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...........................................                                               24
Table 14: Bank Resources: Missions ...........................................                                                   24
Appendix A    Mission's Final Aide Memoire
Appendix B    Borrower Contribution to ICR
Appendix C   Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR 2039-GH)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Water Sector Rehabilitation
Project in Ghana, for which Credit 2039-GH, in the amount of SDR 19.3 million (US$25.0
million equivalent), was approved on June 14, 1989, and made effective on June 18, 1990.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1998, compared with the original closing date of June
30, 1997. Final disbursement took place on November 16, 1998 at which time the balance of
SDR 2.38 million was to be cancelled. Cofinancing for the project was to be provided by
Overseas Development Agency (ODA-UK), Overseas Economic Corporation Fund (OECF -
Japan), Austrian Development Corporation (ADC), African Development Bank (AfDB), and the
French Development Agency (AFD), however, the latter donor withdrew from the project due to
the continued lack of creditworthiness of the implementing agency, Ghana Water and Sewerage
Corporation (GWSC).
The ICR was prepared by Eleanor Wamer (Fin. Analyst), Water & Urb.n 2, Eugene
Okongwu (San. Engr) Nigeria Resident Mission, and reviewed at a meeting dated December 7
chaired by Ms. Theresa Jones, Acting Country Director for Ghana. The beneficiary and
implementing agency, GWSC, contributed to the preparation of the ICR by commenting on the
Bank's draft and preparing an evaluation which is attached in Appendix B.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's June 1998 final supervision/completion
mission. The ICR is based on material in the project file and on information provided by GWSC.
The draft was sent to cofinanciers for review; comments were received from the ADC
representative.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR 2039-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
i.    The Water Sector Rehabilitation Project (WSRP) was the fourth Bank-financed operation
intended to focus on priority rehabilitation needs of the water supply sector and to continue
strengthening institutional capacity of the country's water supply agency, GWSC. Two earlier
projects, approved in 1969 and 1974 respectively, focussed on expansion of the urban water
systems and construction of a sewerage system in the Accra-Tema Metropolitan Area (ATMA).
The third project approved in 1983 aimed to strengthen the management of GWSC and rehabilitate
two major transmission pipelines in ATMA.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
ii.    The project's objectives were to: (i) strengthen the managerial, financial and technical
capabilities of GWSC both at headquarters and in the regions to enable it to effectively plan and
implement a meaningful development program; (ii) improve GWSC's operating and maintenance
ability; and (iii) improve GWSC's financial performance so that it might function as a viable
institution. The project was also intended to assist GWSC to: (i) reduce the levels of non-revenue
earning water; (ii) increase the output of existing water systems by replacement of plant and
equipment and by general system rehabilitation; and (iii) provide for the expansion of some
systems and completion of others to further increase water availability.
iii.   The covenants were aimed to ensure achievement of the project's financial objectives,
including the requirement for GWSC to produce funds from internal sources equivalent to GWSC's
annual capital expenditures incurred. The objectives and related covenants were clear, and
reasonable measures were taken at appraisal to put GWSC on a path that would enable it to meet its
objectives, including a recapitalization program in which foreign debt was converted into equity
and a clearinghouse arrangement established to help ensure that government's liabilities to GWSC
were met. The major pitfalls with the project were: (i) it was not well designed in terms of
selection of components to meet the objectives (paras. 7, 30); and (ii) it grossly underestimated the
timeframe and the inputs necessary for GWSC to meet its financial and institutional objectives.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
iv.    The project partially achieved its objectives. The financial objectives were partially met
with the recruitment of professional finance and accounting staff, pilot computerization of accounts
and billing in a few regional offices, and training and technical assistance. The physical objectives
were also partially met. There was modest improvement in GWSC's operating standards as a result
of technical assistance provided and the supply of operational facilities. However, the major works,
i.e. completion of rehabilitation and limited expansion of systems, will not be fully completed until
September 1999. Implementation of a program to reduce unaccounted-for-water (u-f-w), which
was intended to be a major measure for turning around GWSC's financial performance, was not
done. As financial performance is closely linked with operating performance, improvement in
GWSC's financial performance could be expected only after completion of the works in 1999



(compared with SAR target of 1996), in addition to adequate pricing and cost containment
measures.
v.    The key factors that affected achievement of the major objectives were: (i) management
instability in the sector -- there were frequent changes at the ministerial level in the parent ministly,
MWH; similar changes occurred at the top management level within GWSC including the position
of Managing Director which was filled on a permanent basis in only two and half out of seven years
of the project; (ii) lengthy start-up delays; and (iii) inadequate and untimely tariff increases.
vi.   Sustainability of the investments is likely as GWSC has agreed to carry out an Operational
Plan for operating and maintaining the project systems. Additionally, the sector is being prepared
for a major restructuring to be launched by mid-2000, supported by investments from the Bank and
bilateral donors.  Under the restructured sector, operations. and management will be the
responsibility of the private sector while policy and regulation will be the responsibility of a
downsized GWSC together with a newly established regulatory body, Public Utilities Regulatory
Commission (PURC).
vii.   The total project costs estimated at US$120.4 million did not deviate much from the SAR
estimate of US$124.9 million even though the scope was reduced. At appraisal, GWSC was
expected to finance some US$18.8 million (16% of total cost); however, only about US$6.8 million
was financed by GWSC (6% of total cost). It is the view of GWSC that donors should have
financed 100% of total cost (para 2.4.7 of Appendix B). Due to GWSC's persistent cash shortages
cofinanciers agreed to cover most of the local costs of their components, but throughout the project,
the lack of counterpart funding continued to be a cause of delays in works' completion.
viii.  The Bank's performance was unsatisfactory. The project design was deficient. The scope
of works necessary to achieve a reduced level of u-f-w was underestimated at project preparation.
U-f-w reduction was inappropriately included as a study under the project as well as a measure to
contribute to enhanced revenue generation.
ix.    The quality of supervision was affected by lack of continuity in task management (6 Task
Managers over the period 1991 to 1998). This notwithstanding, the Bank was proactive in steering
the Government of Ghana to sector restructuring when it became clear that the institutional
environment needed to be improved to introduce efficiency into the sector. It is noteworthy that in
spite of the frequent changes in task management, the Bank has sustained good relations with the
cofinanciers and donors who are in support of the sector restructuring.
x.    The Borrower's performance was deficient. The project was executed during a period of
management instability in the sector. Frequent changes in ministers at the MWH affected GWSC's
ability to obtain adequate and timely tariff increases. Changes at the top management levels at
GWSC interrupted continuity in sector dialogue. Frequent changes in leadership in the technical
experts recruited to advice GWSC further contributed to handicapping the sector's abilitv to move
forward.
xi.    The project's outcome is unsatisfactory. The immediate action programs designed to
speedily (within 12 months) restore inoperative and partially operative systems were completed in
1996, four years later than planned. Capacity in the rehabilitated systems should be restored to
design capacity by September 1999, some 3 years later than anticipated. Limited expansion should
take place as planned with an equal delay.   There was insufficient focus on the
rehabilitation/expansion of the distribution systems and on consumer connections. The u-f-w



iv
reduction program was not undertaken due to delays in designing an effective program, though
GWSC has recently commenced a program using its own resources. The financial viability goals
could not be achieved partly because of their link with physical works and also due to the
inadequate pricing of water.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
xii.   Stable sector management is a necessary condition for project success. Throughout
implementation there were frequent changes at all levels of sector management (MWH, GWSC and
PCMU) which contributed to: (i) implementation delays; and (ii) delays in GWSC's ability to
address its persistent cash flow difficulties.
xiii.  The assignment of local financing obligations for capital works to a utility should be
informed by the utility's proven capability and not on projected performance. Prior to the project,
GWSC was unable to cover its understated cash operating expenses from revenues and collections.
Increased revenue generation expected during the project depended on several factors some of
which were not within the control of GWSC such as periodic and timely approval of water tariff
and the macro-economic environment.
xiv.   Project design: A positive innovation of the project was the successful establishment and
implementation of a clearinghouse arrangement to settle Government's current liabilities to GWSC
(para 6). This approach could be usefully implemented by other utilities facing problems with
government arrears.
xv.   It is only by adequate customer identification and holistic packaging (commercial, financial
and operational) that measurable results can be attained. Insufficient attention was paid to
marketing, including distribution, connection, billing and collection which could have helped to
improve revenue generation. Experience has indicated that the necessary commercial orientation is
best addressed by private sector involvement.
xvi.   PCMU structure functioned as planned but had limited use and could not be easily
integrated into GWSC. In sectors and countries with very low implementation capacity this
structure is useful, but one should devise a way to integrate it into the agency so that (i)
communication links are enhanced; and (ii) local professional capacity remains with the departure
of the international consultants.
xvii.  More innovative contracting methods are needed for rehabilitation works on plants that
must remain operational. Designs were not done at appraisal, possibly because of the difficulty in
designing too far in advance of the actual rehabilitation of operating plants. Design and construct
type of contracts with a high contingency and flexible budget may be more appropriate for
rehabilitation works. This approach would have ensured that sufficient resources were mobilized
for the project; eliminated the process of rescoping of contract packages to fit available financing;
and ensured that the systems are fully rehabilitated.
xviii. Reduction of u-f-w is a process involving significant works components as well as
improved commercial management in addition to measures to stop commercial leaks. The scope of
works necessary to achieve reduced level of u-f-w was underestimated at project preparation, hence
the inability of this measure to contribute to enhanced revenue generation. U-f-w was insufficiently
treated as a technical study.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR 2039-GH)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    BACKGROUND
1.    Water supply systems deteriorated rapidly during the economic crisis of the late 1970s
and early 1980s when Government's ability to adequately operate and maintain essential services
was severely constrained. Essential commodities, such as fuel, lubricants and spare parts were in
short supply resulting in failure of vital components of some of the water treatment and
transmission systems. In some areas, entire systems were rendered inoperable causing complete
failure of piped water supplies to smaller towns and severe reduction of supplies to larger urban
centers. Increases in urban population continued unabated at about 5% annually over the last
decade thus widening the substantial gap between water supply and demand.
2.    The economic recovery program embarked on during the mid-1980s set about to, among
others, reform public enterprises by increasing their autonomy with the objective to create
effectively managed, financially viable institutions. Three water supply and sewerage projects
were approved and completed between 1969 and 1990. They focussed on expansion and
rehabilitation in the Accra-Tema Metropolitan Area (ATMA) in addition to technical assistance to
the country's water supply agency, Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation (GWSC). The
projects were successful in completing the physical works, but the institutional development
outcome was inadequate. The fourth Bank-financed operation, the Water Sector Rehabilitation
Project (WSRP), was aimed to rehabilitate the water supply systems in the secondary towns while
continuing to develop GWSC.
B.    STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Project Objectives:
3.    The overriding objective of the project as identified in the SAR was to strengthen the
main water and sewerage sector entity, GWSC, to enable it to more effectively administer the
sector through: (i) strengthening the managerial, financial and technical capabilities of GWSC
both at headquarters and in the regions to enable it to effectively plan and implement a meaningful
development program; (ii) improving GWSC's operating and maintenance ability; and (iii)
improving GWSC's financial performance so that it would function as a viable institution. The
primary goals were intended to be achieved by: (i) reducing the levels of non-revenue earning
water; (ii) increasing the output of existing water systems by replacement of plant and equipment
and by general system rehabilitation; and (iii) providing for the expansion of some systems and
completion of others to further increase water availability.



2
Project Components:
4.    The components of the project included:
(a)   Institutional development to complete the decentralization of GWSC, with
assistance provided under an ongoing twinning arrangement with Thames
Water Intemational UK, a Manpower Improvement Program, including
recruitment of key professional staff and retrenchment of about 1,500 redundant
employees, management and technical training and increased staff support
to the Managing Director;
(b)    Emergency replacements of mechanical, electrical and water treatment plant
and equipment which had deteriorated beyond economic repair;
(c)    Rehabilitation and completion of 37 water supplv systems including works
designed to restore production levels to those for which the systems were
originally designed and to complete partially constructed systems on which work
was suspended because of lack of funds (river intakes, wells, transmission,
treatment and distribution systems);
(d)    Limited expansion of 31 water supply systems including limited distribution
system expansion in densely populated urban areas where there were no piped
supplies and expansion of certain production facilities to meet extreme needs;
(e)   Improvement of workshops, stores and training centers and provision of staff
housing including structural improvements and provision of equipment for
workshops and stores at headquarters and in the regions for the two GWSC
training schools; the component also includes staff housing as an incentive for
recruitment and retention of key staff;
(f)    Supplv of essential equipment and materials including vehicles; replacement
parts for existing plant and equipment; a one-year supply of chemicals; water
meters; and laboratory equipment; and
(g)    Technical studies as follows: (i) hydrologic studies in 17 of the 37 systems to
be rehabilitated or expanded; (ii) a feasibility study for the disposal of wastes
from the Accra sewerage system; (iii) an engineering design for the expansion of
Tamale water supply system; (iv) development of programs for the reduction of
unaccounted-for-water in GWSC's largest water supply systems, including
Sunyani, Cape Coast and Sekondi-Takoradi; (v) a study on the appropriateness
of the tariff structure and levels; and (vi) revaluation of fixed assets.
Covenants
5.    The Project Agreement included covenants aimed at ensuring improved financial
performance. GWSC was required to produce funds from internal sources equivalent to annual
capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred and its debt service requirements for each
year after December 1988.



3
Evaluation of Objectives
6.    The project's objectives and financial covenants were clear and important for the sector,
but the major financial covenant was not realistic. While the project took specific measures to
help fulfill the covenant, including a capital restructuring program and setting up of a clearing
house arrangement' to settle the current liabilities of specific Government agencies, the timeframe
for accomplishing the covenant was unrealistic. Prior to the project (1977 to 1986) GWSC was
dependent upon government to cover over 50% of its recurrent expenses. Subsequently, it
covered its operating costs but at a level constrained by cash and without regard to operational
needs. The financial plan could have considered GWSC's very weak base and a more realistic
covenant could have been designed to reflect gradual improvements over time in line with
efficiency gains.
7.    The risk identified at appraisal of GWSC not being able to generate sufficient internal
cash flow to contribute to counterpart funds was expected to be mitigated through a program to
reduce the level of unaccounted-for-water (u-f-w). However, the u-f-w program was designed to
be implemented after the systems were rehabilitated and expanded by 1996. The rehabilitation
and expansion program was considerably delayed, but even if it was not delayed, no measurable
improvements could have been expected until 1996. Implementation of other measures to reduce
u-f-w such as improving customer identification, billing and collection were similarly delayed.
The covenant was intended to take effect from 1989. This risk reduction measure was therefore
ineffectual and unrealistic.
8.    Another risk was the inability of GWSC to manage a project of this size whichwas to be
mitigated by substantially strengthening the Project and Construction Management Unit (PCMU)
established to implement the project. It was necessary to have such a unit to help expedite the
project and it performed fairly well. There were problems, however, which provide lessons in
designing future units of this type: (i) there were lengthy delays in staffing the PCMU with
counterpart staff due to shortage of technical staff at the time; (ii) because of the relative
concentration of professionals (foreign and local) in the PCMU they were frequently called by
management to do many unplanned ad hoc, albeit urgent, matters at the expense of the project;
(iii) PCMU management (foreign) experienced a high tumover which disrupted the flow of the
project, particularly in a context of management instability in the sector (paras. 26, 32); and
finally (iv) it was difficult to integrate the PCMU into GWSC as intended and the PCMU evolved
into a somewhat independent unit.
C.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
9.    The objective of improving financial performance to allow GWSC to function as a
viable institution was not achieved. Comparative indicators for the period 1990 to 1997 are
presented in Table 12 and summarized below. As indicated in the table below, the targets for
production, sales, and commercial efficiency were not attained, hence GWSC's inability to
produce a positive rate of return on assets in use throughout the life of the project. Although
I The clearinghouse was set up to clear on a current basis the mutual obligations of Electricity Corporation
of Ghana (ECG), Volta River Authority (VRA), GWSC and the Government which helped to improve the
predictability and reliability of GWSC's cash flows. Monthly payments are made by each agency based on
estimates with adjustments for actual obligations done during a quarterly reconciliation process. The
arrangement has worked well since its inception in 1989.



4
actual revenues grew at an average annual rate of about 16.5%, they did not keep pace with the
projected revenues (after adjusting them to reflect cedi devaluation) and expenses; inflation
averaged 35.9% annually.
Comparative Key Indicators (Selected Years)
1992       1993        1994        1995       1996         1997
Proj Actual Proj Actual Proj  Actual Proj Actual Proj Actual Proj  Actual
Production (bill. gallons)  32.9  40.9 35.6  39.8  39.1  41.4 41.9  41.1  42.7  42.1  42.7   42.1
Sales (bill. gallons)  19.1  18.2 21.3  18.5  23.4  17.4 25.1  17.7  25.6  17.9  25.6   20.2
Non-revenue water (%)   42%   56%  40%   54%   40%   58%  40%   570/o 40%   57/o  38%    53%
Revenue (bill. cedis)  15.6  15.6 27.3  21.7  45.8  22.2 63.9  33.0  92.4  37.4  120.5   39.1
Collection (bill. cedis)    14.3  12.5 24.9  17.4  41.9  17.8  58.7  26.2  84.7  36.5  111.0   34.2
Collection/Revenue (%)   92%   80%  91%   80%   92%   80%  92%   79%  92%   98%   92%    87%
Months revenue outst  1.0   6.9  1.0   5.8   1.0   5.7  1.0   6.1  1.0   6.4   1.0   9.6
Operating ratio (%)  81%   79%  79%   78%   79%  138%  85%  101%  85%  121%   85%   139%
Rate of return (%)   3.4%     -   4      -   3.7      -  2.8      -  2.8     -   2.8
10.     The objective to improve GWSC's financial management (FM) capacity was partially
achieved. New recruitment since 1992 increased the number of professional accountants and
financial analysts to an appropriate level. Staff benefitted from in-house training which helped
GWSC to produce and effectively use financial projections as a management tool. The project
financed an FM specialist who helped GWSC computerize its commercial statistics, providing for
the first time in 1995 detailed comparative information for each region on production,
consumption, and billing and collection by consumer categories. Computerization has been
introduced in some of the regions and at headquarters. Staff would need to continue upgrading
FM capacity, but may be unable to do so because of GWSC's persistent cash constraint. The
positive impact of the project on financial management capacity is further detailed in para 3 (b) of
the Borrower's ICR in Appendix B.
11.     The objective to strengthen the managerial capability of GWSC both at headquarters and
in the regions to enable it to effectively plan and implement a meaningful development program
was partially achieved. A twinning arrangement with Thames Water International (TWI), UK,
early in the project provided useful professional exposure to senior staff who were seconded to
TWI for brief periods. This arrangement came to a premature end in 1992 as GWSC was no
longer able to secure the necessary Government approvals for staff travel.
12.    Additionally, the project provided for the rehabilitation and equipping of two training
centers to further strengthen GWSC. This has been partially achieved, and training sessions are
now held year round primarily for junior and mid-level staff. The works have not been completed
as envisaged at appraisal, but agreement was reached on a schedule for completion during the ICR
mission (see Operational Plan, Attachment II). Two retrenchment exercises carried out in 1991
and 1993 reduced the number of junior staff and temporarily increased the professional and
technical staff. Further recruitment of professional staff, however, has been constrained by weak
cash flows and loss of staff to the private sector.
13.    The creation  of a project management cell (PCMU) at headquarters staffed with
international experts and local counterpart staff helped to expedite all aspects of the project
(accounting for multi-currency donor funds, engineering supervision, technical studies,



5
disbursements etc). There were constraints in this arrangement, one aspect of which was not
within GWSC's control, that is, instability in the PCMU leadership (a total of 6 managers since
1990). There were also communication difficulties between the PCMU and other departments of
GWSC, possibly exacerbated by unstable leadership. The result is that the PCMU evolved into a
semi-independent unit.
14.   The physical objectives were partially achieved. Table 6A shows the planned targets and
achieved outputs for key activities; while planned and actual implementation schedules are
compared in Table 6B. The objective is expected to be achieved to (i) increase the output of
existing systems by replacement of plant and equipment and by general system rehabilitation; and
(ii) provide for the expansion of some systems and completion of others to further increase water
availability. The restoration of inoperative and partially operative systems was undertaken under
the Immediate Action Program - IAP - (44 systems financed by IDA) and Priority Replacement
Program - PRP - (6 systems financed by DFID). These programs were successfully completed in
mid-1996, though four years later than planned due mainly to delays in completing the final
designs and lack of counterpart funding.
15.   At appraisal 37 priority systems were proposed for rehabilitation, completion and
expansion to be financed by 4 bilateral donors (AFD-France, OECF-Japan, DFID-UK and ADC-
Austria). Twelve of these systems were subsequently removed due to (i)AFD's withdrawal from
the project and (ii) the transfer of 6 to other on-going projects. Co-financing agreements for
works in 25 systems were signed and made effective in 1991 (for ADC and DFID-financed
components) and in 1994 (for OECF-financed component). System planning, detailed designs
and preparation of bidding documents were completed by 1994, while bidding and award of
contracts continued until early 1996. At the Credit closing date, only one contract package
(involving two systems - Kumasi and Sunyani) was substantially completed. The remaining
systems are scheduled for completion at different dates through September 1999.
16.   The objective of increasing the output of the existing water supply systems through
rehabilitation, completion and expansion should be attained but at levels lower than the SAR
estimates (247,700 m3/day) and lower than the revised target after system planning (310,323
m3/day) for the following reasons. The 45,000 m3/day proposed for Sekondi-Takoradi is the sum
of capacities of two headworks at Daboasi (27,000 m3/day) and Inchaban (18,000 m3/day). The
estimated reliable yield in the dry season of the impoundment at Anumkwesi (raw water source
for Inchaban) is only 7,200 m3/day (if the impoundment is desilted). To match the capacity of the
rehabilitated treatment plant at Inchaban, the yield of the reservoir needs to be increased by raising
the Dam and desilting the impoundment (both of which were not part of this project).
17.   Similarly, the capacity of the treatment plant for Cape Coast is 29,208 m3/day, but the dry
season reliable yield of the raw water source (Brimsu reservoir) is only 13,750mV/day. The
feasibility of increasing the reservoir by raising the Brimsu Dam was studied under the project but
could not be implemented because of a funding constraint. At Kwanyaku, the impoundment on
the Ayensu River needs to be desilted and the treatment plant uprated prior to attaining the
production level of 23,000 m3/day. These works were not implemented under the project. Possible
realizable capacity on completion of system rehabilitation is therefore about 220,000 ms/day.
18.   In some of the systems where the headworks capacity was increased (such as Kumasi
with 50% increase in headworks capacity) there was no matching expansion of the distribution
system, and additional consumer connections were not financed under the project. Consequently,



6
output increases may not translate into proportionate increase in the population served and in
increased sales. Rehabilitation and expansion of the distribution systems (including consumer
connections) need therefore to be given priority in future investments.
19.   The objective to improve GWSC's operation and maintenance (O&M) ability was
partially achieved. Schedules of operational support equipment, tools and vehicles were prepared
with the assistance of technical specialists retained through the PMC2 contract, and supplied under
contracts financed by OECF. The delivery and distribution of vehicles greatly facilitated
operation and maintenance.
20.   With the assistance of technical specialists, the O&M department has been re-organized;
procedures for accumulating operating data at the systems are now in place; and systems
operating manuals produced. Pilot in-house training was conducted in six systems prior to
commencement of systems rehabilitation contracts. This training which was combined with minor
rehabilitation works could not be sustained because of funding constraints.
21.   A pilot preventive maintenance program (PMP) was developed and implemented in 1994
in Volta and Ashanti regions. This program should have been extended and institutionalized at
the completion of system rehabilitation works, backed by appropriate levels of spare parts or
means for timely procurement of such spare parts, and training in the field or at the upgraded
training centers for maintenance personnel. GWSC will now have to develop strategies for
adequate maintenance of its M&E equipment after it is installed.
22.   The objective to reduce the levels of u-f-w in three major systems in the project area as
envisaged in the SAR was not undertaken in part because of delays in developing a viable
proposal. GWSC has taken certain actions which will facilitate implementation of a u-f-w
program in the future and has commenced a limited program with its own resources. These
actions include: (i) procurement of production, zonal and consumer meters (financed by IDA and
OECF) - installation of the meters is in progress but constrained by cash flows; (ii) procurement
of leak detection equipment; (iii) training of distribution staff in four regions on leak detection
and repair procedures; (iv) introduction of a computerized system of leak management; and (v)
customer management survey of ATMA.
23.   The economic performance related issues of the project are inevitably linked to the
financial and technical problems presented in the previous paragraphs. In general, the analysis
aims to capture the economic benefits deriving from improving the water supply, and refers to
these measurements only as indicative of true economic returns. The SAR method aimed to
measure these benefits using the willingness to pay approach and to confirm that the demand
curve was reasonable. The estimates presented in the SAR were thus only meant to be illustrative
of the general magnitude of the economic benefits of the project.
24.   Regarding the quantifiable objectives presented in the ex-ante economic analysis, the
project referred to four indicators: (i) production; (ii) physical leakage; (iii) net water for use; and
(iv) new consumers. These objectives were not fully met. The target for estimated production
capacity of treated water was 15.665 million gallons (90.4 Mm3) of water per year, but capacity
will not reach this level as 6 systems that were intended to be financed by AFD were not done,
and another 6 were dropped from the project for budgetary reasons. The analysis estimated the
2 Project Management Consultants (PMC) are the consultants retained to manage the project via the PCMU.



7
physical leakage of the system to remain 25%. The current u-f-w is estimated at 57%, much of
which is administrative; physical leakage is now estimated at 25% to 30%. The net amount of
water for use after the completion of the project was expected to reach 11.755 million gallons
(53.3 Mm3). The number of new consumers added to the network at the end of the project was
expected to reach 300,000. However, the number of customers connected to the network is
stagnant as there was limited expansion of the distribution system. There has been very limited
growth in the population served.
25.   In estimating the economic returns of the project the main quantifiable costs and benefits
are considered. The actual cost of the project is US$120.4 million spread over 7 years, 1992 to
1998; O&M is assumed to be 1% annually of total investment. The increased amount of water
produced could serve as a proxy for estimating the quantifiable benefits of the project. Over the
project period, water production for the 25 project towns increased from 49.5 Mm3 in 1988 to 70.7
Mm3 in 1997. The incremental amount produced is equivalent to 20.9 Mm3/year and falls short of
the SAR estimates for the 25 towns of 27.5 Mm3/year. Assuming an average value of water equal
to the present average tariff would give an economic benefit of US$7.2 million/year, which yields
a marginally positive return of 2% compared with SAR projection of 15%.
D.    MAJoR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
26.   Factors not generally subject to government control: The implementation of system
rehabilitation contracts was dependent on timely and successful conclusion of cofinancing
agreements with external support agencies. Two of these agreements (with DFID and ADC)
became effective in 1991. However, the inability to finalize agreements with AFD resulted in a
contract package for six systems in the Eastem Region not being implemented.
27.   Factors generally subject to government control: Management instability negatively
affected pro.ject implementation. Over the period 1991 to 1998, there were 5 Managing Directors
in GWSC who served in acting assignments for most of their respective terms. Similar frequent
changes occurred in all of the key senior management positions within GWSC. Additionally, at
the parent Ministry, MWH, there were frequent changes in Ministers which did not help with
continuity and the ability to have policies approved as and when required. Devaluation of the
Cedi at about 36% annually had a major negative impact on GWSC's cash flows and its ability to
produce counterpart funds when needed.
28.   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control: GWSC was required (in the
financing plan for the project) to finance 47% of the local costs of the project (equivalent to
US$18.8 m) from its internally generated revenue but was unable to meet this obligation.
Persistent cash shortages resulted in protracted implementation periods and reduction in works
under many contracts. Contract costs also increased as a result of claims on delayed payments.
DFID provided supplementary financing of £3.5 million to cover the local financing shortfall to
enable the contracts to proceed to completion. The contracts for Tamale and Wa (OECF-
financed) were on hold as at June 1998 pending the resolution of counterpart financing issues.
29.   Start-up Delay. The fulfillment of the conditions for Credit effectiveness was delayed by
12 months. The appointment of consultants for engineering designs and preparation of bidding
documents was not done prior to Credit signature but in late 1991. There was considerable start-
up delay due to bureaucratic problems in coordinating and sequencing the donor packages, which
resulted in a six-year delay in the start of the rehabilitation contracts (1996 as against 1990 as



8
envisaged in the SAR).  Finalization of bidding documents was delayed till 1994, and
procurement of contracts took much longer than desirable.
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
30.   Sustainability of the project's investments is considered to be likely as GWSC is
committed to carrying out the Operational Plan agreed with the ICR mission. Additionally, the
Bank is preparing a project to support the government's policy decision to restructure the sector to
introduce private sector efficiency in operations and management. Adherence to the Operational
Plan will help to ensure that the newly rehabilitated assets are adequately operated and maintained
during the reform period. A new tariff structure has been approved (March 1998) which will
enable the sector to cover much of its costs. A Public Utilities Regulatory Commission (PURC)
has been established to help regulate tariff policy and to ensure adequate and timely approvals.
Moreover, the Government has decided to transfer 110 small urban systems to the District
Assemblies for community operations and management effective January 1999. This would bring
operations of small town systems closer to the beneficiaries and streamline management of large
urban systems.
F.    BANK PERFORMANCE
31.   The Bank's performance was unsatisfactory. There were flaws in the project design
which did not enable the project's objectives to be attained. First, preliminary engineering was
not done at appraisal (May 1989), and no provision was allowed in the SAR Implementation
Schedule. Preliminary engineering did not start until 1991 and took three years to complete;
bidding and evaluation procedures started in 1994 and ended in 1996 as against SAR target of
1990 for completion of such procedures. Secondly, the risk was identified in the SAR that
GWSC's cash flows would be inadequate for the counterpart funding needs of the project, and
this was to be mitigated by a component to reduce the level of non-revenue water. However, a
program to address the issue of non-revenue water was not designed at appraisal, hence its
inappropriateness as a means to immediately boost counterpart funding. Finally, while a lot of
financial and commercial improvements were expected, the project contained very little to address
the fundamental issues that could reverse the steady decline in financial performance, such as
customer management, improvement in distributions, customer connections, and computerization
of billing.
32.   The quality of supervision was affected by lack of continuity in task management; there
were 6 Task Managers over the period 1991 to 1998. On the other hand, the missions were
adequately staffed (in skills mix) and carried out regular reviews (2 to 3 missions per year).
During a major project review in 1994, the Bank was successful in reaching agreement with the
Government of Ghana to restructure the sector. It was agreed thereafter to focus more on sector
reform rather than on project restructuring which was seen to be impractical at the time. The Bank
maintained good relations with cofinanciers and donors who are also in support of the sector
restructuring. Working relations with the Borrower have been satisfactory.
G.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.   The Borrower's performance was deficient. The project was executed during a period of
management instability in the sector. There were frequent changes in ministers at the parent
ministry, MWH, which affected GWSC's ability to obtain adequate and timely tariff increases.



9
Changes were too frequent at the top management levels at GWSC, including the Managing
Director, and also in the PMC leadership, all of which contributed to the very lengthy project
implementation period. The lack of stability also had a negative impact on the ability to, inter
alia, reach consensus and get approval on appropriate annual tariff increases during the project,
and on financial assistance needed to turn around GWSC's persistent liquidity crises.
H.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
34.   The project's outcome is rated as unsatisfactory since its major objectives were not fully
achieved. On the one hand, the project succeeded in implementing a twinning arrangement which
came to a premature end in 1992 (para 11); training facilities were constructed, but not completed
as at Credit Closing; staff were trained both in house and externally; a retrenchment exercise was
successfully carried out; computerization was introduced at headquarters and in a number of
regions; an exercise to revalue the fixed assets was successfully implemented; GWSC produced
an unqualified audit report for the first time in 1994 (since project appraisal). Technical studies
were adequately carried out and put to the intended use (Table 7). Capacity was thus strengthened
at GWSC. However, GWSC's financial performance did not improve over the life of the project.
Delays in implementing the physical components meant that the operational improvements which
were to lead to improved revenue generation did not occur. GWSC also failed to obtain the
needed annual tariff increases. A positive outcome is GOG's resolve to reform the sector and
introduce PSP for operations, which is currently under preparation.
35.   The emergency replacement programs, IAP and PRP, were carried out though delayed by
four years (para 14). The systems proposed for rehabilitation, completion and expansion will be
completed only by September 1999 (a 3-year delay). Capacity is expected to be 220,000 m3/day
as against the SAR expectation of 247,700 m3/day. There was limited focus on rehabilitation and
expansion of the distribution systems and on rehabilitationlprovision of consumer connections.
O&M improvements were instituted in line with the SAR, and there was modest improvement in
GWSC's operating standards as a result of technical assistance provided and the supply of
operational facilities.
1.    FUTURE OPERATION
36.   Physical works are scheduled to be completed at varying dates through September 1999.
An Operational Plan has been agreed with GWSC (see Final Aide Memoire, Attachment II),
which will help ensure that the project systems are adequately operated and maintained. With
continued commitment of the Government to restructuring the sector to improve efficiency with
private sector involvement, the project investments could be sustained.  GWSC's liquidity
difficulties are slated to improve with the implementation of an enhanced tariff structure
introduced in March 1998. This situation will be reviewed during the preparation of the water
sector restructuring project.
J.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
37.   Management:
*     Stable sector management is a necessary condition for project success. Throughout
implementation there were frequent changes at all levels of sector management (MWtH,
GWSC and PCMU) which contributed to: (i) fragmentation in sector dialogue; (ii)



10
implementation delays; and (iii) delays in GWSC's ability to address its persistent cash
flow difficulties.
*     Constructive and persistent high level dialogue using the project as a vehicle can lead to
management changes essential to a sustainable sector. The Bank and project co-
financiers sent a clear and consistent message that the status quo could not continue
which triggered the reform process currently underway.
38.   Financing:
The assignment of local financing obligations for capital works to a utility should be
informed by the utility's proven capability and not just on projected performance. Prior
to the project, GWSC was unable to cover its understated cash operating expenses from
revenues and collections. Increased revenue generation expected during the project
depended on several factors, some of which were not within the control of GWSC such as
periodic and timely approval of water tariff adjustment and a favorable macro-economic
environment.
*     A project innovation was the successful establishment and implementation of a
clearinghouse arrangement in which the Government, GWSC and three other parastatals
settled their current liabilities in a timely manner (para 6). This approach has been shown
to be a positive initiative which could be implemented by other utilities facing problems
with payment of govemment bills.
39.   Design:
*     Insufficient attention was paid to marketing, including distribution, customer
connections, billing and collection which could have helped to improve revenue
generation. It is only by adequate customer identification, and holistic packaging of
commercial, financial and operational factors, that measurable results can be attained.
Experience indicates that this is best addressed by a private sector orientation.
*     In sectors and countries with very low implementation capacity a project unit is useful,
but one should devise a way to integrate it into the agency so that (i) communication
links are enhanced; and (ii) local professional capacity remains with the departure of the
intemational consultants. The PCMU structure functioned as planned but could not be
easily integrated into GWSC.
*     Since the scope of rehabilitation works is usually not fully known during investigation
and design, and continue to expand with time, an adequate contingency should be
included in project cost estimates. This measure would have ensured that sufficient
resources are mobilized for the project; eliminated the process of rescoping of contract
packages to fit available financing; and ensured that the systems are fully rehabilitated.
*     Reduction of u-f-w is a process involving a significant works component in addition to
measures to reduce commercial losses. The scope of works necessary to achieve a reduced
level of u-f-w was underestimated at project preparation, hence the inability of this
measure to contribute to enhance revenue generation. U-f-w was inappropriately treated
as a technical study.



II
More innovative contracting methods are needed for rehabilitation works on plants that
must remain operational. Designs were not done at appraisal, possibly because of the
difficulty in designing too far in advance of the actual rehabilitation of operating plants.
Design and construct type of contracts with a high contingency and flexible budget may
be more appropriate for rehabilitation works. This approach would have ensured that
sufficient resources are mobilized for the project; eliminated the process of rescoping of
contract packages to fit available financing; and ensured that the systems are fully
rehabilitated. The Borrower made similar comments on the rehabilitation (para 2.4.7 of
Appendix B).



12
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ............................................ 13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ............................................                                                        14
Table 3: Project Timetable ............................................                                                     ;            14
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated & actual ............................ 14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ............................................  15
Table 6A: Targeted and Achieved Output ............................................                                                     16
Table 6B: Planned & Actual Implementation Schedule .......................................... 17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ............................................                                                       18
Table 8A: Project Costs ............................................. 18
Table 8B: Actual Project Financing ............................................ 20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ............................................                                                       21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ............................................                                                        21
Table  11:  Compliance  with  Operational Manual Statements .......................... ........ 22
Table  12:  Financial/Operational Indicators ...................                                        ......................... 22
Table  13:  Bank  Resources:  Staff Inputs ................                                       ............................ 24
Table  14:  Bank  Resources:  Missions ............................................ 24



13
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives               Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
(/)              ( ((/)                           (41
Macro policies                                I                                  L             IZ
Sector policies                                                 L                L             [I]
Financial objectives                              ]            [I]
Institutional development                      Z7 -                               L  
Physical objectives                           [                [fl
Poverty reduction                                               L                [              Li
Gender issues                                  L                L                [                 ]
Other social objectives                                                                          7 - I  1
Environmental objectives                        1                                   i            E]
Public sector management                        7l              [                 L  
Private sector development                        ]             L                 L              [
Other (capacity building)                      L                L                 L             L
B. Project sustainabilty                     Lely                     Unlikely               Uncertain
C. Bank perfornance                          Highly
satisfactory             Satisfactory             Deficient
(1)                      (1)                      (1)
ldentifficatimnm                                                    
Pieparation assistance                         L                            i                    7]
Appraisal                                      L                          L                    [
Supervision                                    L                         L                      Li
D. Borrower performance                      Highly
satisfactory             Satisfactory             Deficient
(/)                       (/)                     (1)
Preparation                                    L                         L                      L
Implementation                                    i                      L                      L
Covenant compliance                            L                         L                      L
Operation (if applicable)                      L                         L                      L
E. Assessment of Outcome              Hihly                                                       Higly
satisfactory      Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory       unsatisfactory
L(                 Li                   Li                   []
O~~~~~~~~~~~-



14
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Preceding Operations
CR 160-GH (Water Supply &      Assisted in expanding the water supply     1969              Completed in 1973.l
lSewerage)                      distribution network in ATMA &
constructing a sewerage systemn in centrall
Accra.l
CR 499-GH (Water Supply &                                                 1974              Completed in 1980.
Sewerage)                      Intended to increase the installed capacity of
ATMA & extend water to adjacent rural
areas.
CR 1342-GH (Technical                                                     1983              Completed in 1990.
Assistance & Rehabilitation)
Intended to rehabilitate facilities in the
Accra-Tema area with supporting technical
assistance.
Following operations
CR 2604-GH (Community          To introduce community management of
Water & Sanitation)            rural water supply.                        1994              Ongoing
CR 2836-GH (Urban              To improve sanitaty conditions in urban    1996              Ongoing
Enviromnental Sanitation)      areas.
Water Sector Restructuring and                                                              Under preparation.
Privatization                  To improve efficiency by introducing
private sector participation.                               Under preparation
Community Water & San. II
To continue the initiatives of the first project.
TABLE 3 - PROJECT TIMETABLE
Identification (Executive Project Summaty)                                February 1988
Preparationt                                                              March 198- October 1988
Appraisal                                        September 1998           November 1988
Negotiations                                                              May 1989
Board Presentation                                                        June 14,1989
Signing                                                                   July 28, 1989
Effectiveness                                    August 1989              June 18, 1990
Loan Closing                                     June 30, 1997            June 30, 1998
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED & ACTUAL
(in US$ millions)
Appraisal          1.00       4.30       9'50      1430         19.50      2230       24.30      25.00     25.00    25.003
Actual                0       3.76       5.23       9.51        12.20      14.87__    19.08      20.24     22.13       23.6
Acualas%            0%        870/o      55%        670/o       63%         67/o       78A        8/1%
of Estimate                                                                                                                 l
3 Additional atmounts beyond FY97 are due to fluctuations between the SDR and US$ not estimated at the time of project appraisal.



15
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A I     4   t. .1 .r.j.  t. .  . . .  M. .4 h.j ' .       A...1 P.j.         A ...1        6Pro j.  M *a.     Y 4    A  u..    P     . ................
Production (bil. galls)   33.4     38.0      32.0      38.0      31.8     38.6      32.9      40.9      35.6     39.8      39.1      41.4      41.9      41.1      42.7     42.1      42.7      42.1
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19                                                 .    .....
Sales (bil. galls)        17.0      15.3     17.1      15.9      17.9     16.9    19.1%       18.2      21.3     18.5      23.4      17.4      25.1      17.7      25.6      17.9     25.6      20.2
Non-rev water (%/)        49%      60%       47%       58%      44%       56%       42%       56%      40%       54%       40%       58%       39%       57%o     39%f/     51%/      38%,      53%
Reverze (bil cedis)*       5.4      n.a.      8.1       7.3      11.4      9.3      15.6      15.6      27.3     21.7      45.8      22.2      63.9      33.0      92.4     37.4     1 20.5     39.1
Collection (oil cedis)0    5.0      n.a.      7.4       5.8      10.6      7.4      14. 3     12.5      24.9     1 7.4     41.9      17.8      58.7      26.2      84.7     36.5    111.0       34.2
Collection/Rev (%)        92%       n.a.     92%       79%/     93%       80%       92%       80%      91%       80%       92%       80%       92%      79%/      92%       98%       92%       87%o
Monlhasrev outt            1.0      n.a.      1.0       6.7       1.0      9.3       1.0       6.9       1.0      5.8       1.0       5.7       1.0       6.1       1.0       6.4       1.0      9.6
Operating ratio          128%      85%      100%       90%      91%       98%       81%       79'f/o   79%/      78%       79%/    138%        85%      101%      85%      121%       85%      139%
Rabeof retum(%)         -3.4%              -1.3%/               1.6%               3.4%                  4.0               3.7%               2.8%                2.8%                2.4%
No. of employees         6,120     5,743    5,450     5,437     5,150    4,349     4,900    4,3378    4,850     4,281     4,800     4,244     4.750     3,932    4,700     4,01 0    4,650     3,992
Prof. Tech & Adm.       670       614      700       620       730      540       750       603       750      603       750       597       750       584       750      642       750       639
Other                 5,450     5,129     4,750    4,817     4,420     3,8109    4,150    3,775     4,1003    3,678     4,050     3,6 47   4,00)0    3,368     3,950     3,368     3,900     3,353
No. of connections      1 97,000   I119,000O   1 9O,500   1 33,000   200,000   1 41 ,000   201 ,500   1 48,000   203,000   1 60,000   204,500   1 76,000   206,000   1 95,000   207,500   21 6,657   209,000   216,767
Bmnploy/O000connect       31.1I     48.3     27.5      40.9      25.8     30.8      24.3      29.6      23.9     26.8      23.5      24.1      23.1      20.2      22.7     18.5      18.7      18.4
WSPAP Disb               1,83 1       0    3,502       4 18     4,8 15     400     7,713      372     8,979     3,954     7,665     3,498     4,8 15    4,644     1 ,741 
(mil/cedis)                                           ___                                                                         ___                                                 ___
*ProjecteJ figures have been adjusted to reflect cedi devaluation.



16
TABLE 6A: TARGETED AND ACHIEVED OUTPUT
item                     Target at SAR (19)            Achieved at Crodt                Coinmta
Cbsi Date
(Jam 30, 19")
1 Insttutiotnal Support & Dew.
a) detailed design and supervision of    consuhants retained until works    as planned         at Credit closing IDA
the water supply systems            completion                                                 linancing was not available
for consultants' services
b) technical support sernices from  during project implementation   as planned                 project management support
Project Management Consultant                                                                 continued after Credit Closing
(PMC) in project management, in
improving regional financial systems,
in operation and maintenance of water
systems in project area
c) technical support to improve     extend twinning contract bv up  as planned
operational and administrative      to two years
procedures in headquarters and to
complete decentralization of GWSC
d) manpower improvement program     (i) recruitment of 100 key      as planned                 many of the staff left GWSC
professional stair                                       following deterioration of
service conditions
(ii) retrenchment of about 1l500    staflfstrength reduced by
employees                      over 2300 employees
e) training specialist to assist in  24 man-months                  as planned
formulating strategy, in preparing
training needs analysis and in
improving curricula
2. Water Supply Systenms
a) immediate action program and     57 systems                      44 systems restored under   restoration of remaining 13
priority replacement program to                                     IAP                        systems carried out under
restore operation in inoperative or                                                            other projects
partially operative systems
h) rehabilitation. completion and   37 systems of which 31 was      31 designed but work at    12 systems were removed
expansion of water systems          planned tor limited expansion   various stages of          from the project
compietion in only 25
systems
3. Operational Fadchtles
3. 1. Physical Facilities
a) improvement of workshops and     construct and rehabilitate      as planned but construction
stores at headquarters and in the                                   at various stages of
regions                                                             compietion
b) improvement of two GWSC's        construct demonstration block.    as planned but construction
training schools                    laboratory, workshops,          of demonstration block and
kitchen'launden. two staft     workshops still on-going
quarters
c) provision of staff housing as    74 units                        not implemented
incentive for recruitment and staff
retention



17
I........  ::: g.   f ~        ,         .     .. ........          _
..  ,. ,,i0..   ... .
3.2 Supply (and installation) of
equipment and materials
a) equipment for workshops and stores  to supply and install         supplied but installation
not completed
b) vehicles                          not stated                      202 vehicles supplied
c) water meters                      not detailed                    93,500 consumer meters,    Meter installation program is
1100 zonal meters and 87    ongoing.
production meters supplied
d) laboratory equipment, leakage     to supply                       as planned
control equipment, computers,
chemicals and spare parts
e) communication equipment           to supply and install           procurement in progress
4. Studies
a) six studies                       to be carried out during project    five of the six studies
implementation                  completed; and additional
four studies undertaken
TABLE 6B: PLANNED & ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
',.    g.,fg..  '   ''':-g'"-'-''",' .......  ,. ..........0000000
,,,,,, ,lE lE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.; . .,  .,,, ,i ,. .    . t.  ..,,, . .  ,t?. ;,X   . .
RestoHing Inoperative Systems (IAP & PRP)
Bidding and Evaluation                                Feb. 1990        Sept 1993          Jun. 1991           Nov. 1994
Supply and Installation & Civil Works                 Sept. 1990       Dec. 1994         Jun. 1992           May. 1996
Rehabiliiation/Completion/Erposssion of 37 Systems
Bidding and Evaluation                                Feb. 1990        Sept. 1995         Jun. 1993          May. 1998
Supply and Installation & Civil Works                 Sept. 1990       Feb. 1996         Dec. 1996            Sept. 1999
Buildings                                                                                                _________
Bidding and Evaluation                                Feb. 1990                          Dec. 1991            Jan. 1996
Construction                                          Jan. 1991        Aug. 1996         Dec. 1996           May. 1999
Supply of Es,sential Equipment and MateHials
Bidding and Evaluation                                Feb. 1990                  _       Dec. 1994            Oct. 1996
Supply and Installation                               Sept. 1990       Apr. 1996         Dec. 1996            Dec. 1998
Hydrologic Studies                                    Jun. 1990        Sept. 1991        Dec. 1992            Sept. 1993
Accra Sewage Disposal Feasibility Study               Jan. 1991        Jul. 1994         Dec. 1992            Jul. 1995
Tamale Expansion Study                                 Jan. 1992       Feb. 1995         Jun. 1994            Jun. 1996
TariffStudy                                            Jan. 1990         1993            Dec. 1990              1994
Fixed Assets Revaluation                              Jan. 1991        Jun. 1994         Dec. 1993            Jun. 1996



18
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT*
i- Study.                 Purpose -s     ..in~ .. S..... ....    . ..
1. Hydrological studies of   To evaluate the adequacy of the   Completed   Systems with source problems
17 systems                raw water sources.                        were identified and some of the
problems were addressed under
the project.
2. Accra sewage disposal    To identify least cost safe  Completed  Improvement works have been
feasibility               disposal facility and to improve          defmed and costed providing
connections and operation and             basis for financing arrangements.
maintenance.
3. Tariff study           To identify appropriate tariff  Completed   Subsequent tariff revision based
structure and levels taking               on the recommendation of the
account of consumer                       study.
affordability and financial
requirements of GWSC.
4. ATMA customer          Financed under a parallel     Completed  Illegal customers uncovered and
management study          arrangement with French                   regularized; improved customer
assistance intended to help with          management including outlining
customer identification and               new connection and metering
ultimately billing and collection.        procedure.
5. Kpong-Tema-Accra       N/A                           Completed   Updated master-plan and
pipeline study                                                       identified investment needs of
ATMA up to 2010 to facilitate
financing arrangements.
6. Engineering design for    To prepare detailed engineering   Completed   Designs and bidding documents
Tamale expansion          design for expansion of Tamale            ready for implementation under
water supply scheme.                      future projects.
7. Management information  To help improve the quality and   Completed   A systematic approach to
system master plan       timeliness of information                  computerization outlined;
available for management                  recommendations of the study
decision taking.                          being implemented on pilot.
8. Reduction of           Development of programs for    Not
Unaccounted for Water (u-f- the reduction of u-f-w in the  completed
w)                        largest water supply systems,
inciuding Sunyani, Cape Coast
and Sekondi-Takoradi, and
training of GWSC staff.
9. Revaluation of fixed   Inventory of GWSC's assets;   Completed   Data obtained used in the
assets                    estimate of replacement value             preparation of GWSC's accounts.
and useful life.
10. Preparation of strategic   Undertaken as part of the  Completed   Prioritizing and phasing of
investment program        restructuring program.                    investments; sourcing of
II                                         financing for investments.
* See also Para 2.5 of Appendix B for further details on the project studies as provided in the Borrower's ICR.



19
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS*
(US$ 000)
Rehab. & Expan. 31 Water Systems
Ashanti and Brong Ahafo                    5,807    13,192    18,999    3,225      19,082     22,307
Wester and Central                         5,047    15,886    20,933     0         20,570     20,570
Volta                                      3,541     8,272    11,813    758         4,298      5,056
Northern and Upper West                    1,804     4,105     5,909    1,560       8,837     10,397
Eastern                                    2,478     5,567     8,045     0              0          0
Upper East                                    49       142      191      0              0          0
Immediate Action Plan &                        379     1,516     1,895    623         3,535      4,158
Priority Replacement Program
Buildings
Workshops and Stores                     1,160     1,740     2,900    2,476       3,026      5,502
Training Centers                         1,863      436      2,299    292           560        852
Staff Housing                            3,262     2,175    5,437     325             0        325
Equipment and Materials
Vehicles                                   218     4,133     4,351     74         3,638      3,712
Spare Parts                                73      1,378     1,451     0              0          0
Computers                                   29      406       435      0            900        900
Communication Equipment                     15      348       363      39         1,960      1,999
Chemnicals                                218      4,132     4,350     0          3,255      3,255
Laboratory Equipment                        15      203       218      0            196        196
Equipment & Tools, Meters & Installation    29        44       73    1,800        17,337    19,137
Meters (IDA financed only)                  377       783      1,160     0          5,424      5,424
Engineering                                2,262     5,264     7,526     0         13,997     13,997
Technical Studies                          2,132     2,132     4,264     0          1,382      1,382
Technical Assistance                         508     7,618     8,126     0            562        562
Staff Redeployment                         5,800        0     5,800     628             0        628
Contingencies                             2,827     5,634    8,462
Total               39,893    85,106   125,000   11,800     108,559    120,359
Rates of ExcJsange to US$1.00D"ecember 199711-.:4
Yen                                127.53
Pound Sterling                        0.6
Austrian Shillings                  12.64
French Franc                         5.98
Gennan Mark                          1.81
Ghanaian Cedi                       2248
*Data as provided by GWSC; foreign costs include some local costs disbursed in foreign currency.



20
TABLE 8B: ACTUAL PROJ1ECT FINANCING*
- srssS  s .............tal Cot  ..... Cosin.          GWS                       IDA Cilacn - -Au-sts- I    ;in            = omnda  OP                  Cousn -A    O
Local   Foreign    'fla      oa       o. Ttl Lo    oeg                oa      o      orin     Ttl      Lcl Eri             oa      o      otg       oa
Rehab. & Exp of Systems
Ashanti & Brong Ahafo    3,225    19.082   22,307       -                                                                       3,225   19,082   22,307         .
Volta                     758      4,298     5,056    758             758                                         -         -       -        -         -           4,298    4,298
Central & Western           0    20,570    20,570                            -          -                    20,570   20,570                                           -
Eastemr                                -
Northem & UJpper West    1,560     8,837    10,397   1,560           1,560                            = -                                                          8,837    8,837
Upper East                   -         -         -      -           -                                                       -
Rest. Inop Systems &
Immed.
Action Plan               623      3,183    3,806    623              623           3,183    3,183 3              -
Buildings                                                                     -         -        -        -          -            -        -
Workshops and Stores    2,476      3,026    5.502   2,476           2,476                -        -                                                                3,026    3,026
'Training Centers         292        560      852    292              292             560       560   _-                                                                        -
Staff Housing             325          -      325    325              325                                              -        -                                      -        -
Equipment and Materials
Vehicles                   74      3,638    3,712      74              74                                                                                          3,638    3,638
Spare Parts                                                                 -        -         -       -           -                                                   -        -
Computers                    .      900       900       -       .       -             900      900                                   I-                                         -
Communication Equip.       39      1,960     1,999     39              39                -        -                                  |                       -    1,960    1,960
Chemicals                          3,256    3,256       -                            3,256    3,256                                 -                                  -        -
Lab. Equipment               -       196      196                                     196       196                             1,800        -        -      -         -        -
Equip-Wkshops &          1,800    17,337    19,137                                                   -         -                    -                             17,337   17,337
Stores
Meters                  |            5,424    5,424                     _               688       688     -                                                       |  4,736    4,736
Engineering             |           13,997    13,997                                  12,545    12,545   =                              |                       -    1,452    1,452
Technical Studies *                  1,382     1,382                         __        1,382    1,382
Technical Assistance           -       562      562                                     562       562
Staff Redeployment          628          -      628    628              628                                                       -                                      -        -
Priority Replacement Prog.     -       352      352                -          -         352       352                                   |-                               - 
TOTAL            11,800   108,560   120,360   6,775          6,775          23,624   23,624           20,570   20,570   5,025   19,082   24,107       -   45,284   45,284
*Data as provided by GWSC; foreign costs include some local costs disbursed in foreign currency.



21
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Projected Rate of Return -15%                     Actual Rate of Return -2%
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreemet   Se|dm S   |     e _d   Stanu| O4 Date D| oaol  of Covm-ma
Credit
3.04         2        CP      07/31/95    Borrower to approve GWSC's        Increases were inadequate and
proposals for tariff increases, to  untimely.
enable GWSC to mect capital
expenditure and debt service, within
_____    ____  ____  __   three months of receipt of proposals.
4.01 (b)     I        CD       10/31/97   GWSC to furnish to IDA not later  Complied with delay.
than six months after the end of each
fiscal year audit of GWSC including
audit and separate opinion on special
account & statements of expenditure.
5.01 (e)     3        CP       12/31/90   Borrower to notify IDA that       CFD has withdrawa its
conditions precedent to disbursement  participation.
of US$47 million in cofimancing
have been met.
Project
2.04 (c)                 X C              GWSC to annually review its       Monitoring indicators developed
performance under the project     and now used for evaluation of
against monitoring indicators agreed   GWSC performance.
with IDA.
2.07 (a)     S        CP       09/30/94    GWSC to furnish to IDA its draft  Corporate plans have been
rolling corporate plan, draft     prepared.
performance contract, & its proposed
3-year investment program. GWSC
to finalize thereafter such documents
taking into account IDA's comments.
2.08 (a)     5        NC                  GWSC to employ, not later than two   Dam design was completed by
months after receipt of final detailed   November 30, 1994.
design for raising of the Brimsu dam
a panel of experts acceptable to IDA
for review of the design.
2.08 (b)     5        NC                  GWSC to furnish to IDA not later  Further dam investigation will be
than January 1, 1992 a program for    done as part of preparatory work
periodic inspection of selected  for sector restructuring.
dams.
2.09         5         C                  GWSC to implement a manpower      Done but GWSC is unable to
improvement program to retrench  retain professional staff.
redundant staff and recruit additional
__________   ________   ________  _______  _________   key   staff                       _________________I_k y_saf.
4.01         1        CD       06/30/90    GWSC to submit audited financial    o.k.
statements for the previous year
within six months of the year end.  __
4.02         2        NC                  GWSC to produce fund from internal  GWSC has been unable to
sources equivalent to annual capital   comply.
expenditures and debt services.



22
TABLE I1: COMPLIUNCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENS
Complied with.
TABLE 12: FINANCIAIJOPERATIONAL INDICATORS
I_19_1_____1___I  199             1         13         1994     1I9           19        19n?7
Population(millions)                    14.36          14.73     15.12      15.52      13.92      16.34       16.77       17.00
% Served                                                            76        74         73          71          73          73
No. of Systn                             20S            208        20S       208        20S         210         210        210
Water Produced (Mn)                  172.727         175,435   1S5,909   10.909    136.S39     186,839   189,518    1I9,51S
W     terSold (Mm')                   72,273          76,813    32,727    S4.091     79,091      30,916      80,913      91140
Uaccounted for Wa er(*%)                  58             56         56        54         53          37          57          53
AverageTariff                             89            100        176       239        252         412         460        460
Connection Fee
No. Service Comnections              132,684         141,079    147,622    159,893    175.977   195,341     216,657     216,767
No. of MeteredConnections             131.975        140,202    146,647   15S.371   173,503     IS5p075     203,001    212,560
No. of Standpipes                        709            377        975      1,522      2.469      3,273       3,814       4,207
Billingp (M Cedis)
-uneured                                  96             89        124        149       150         245         291        296
-metered                               4,195           5,037     9.381    13,167      13,504     24,123      26,663      28.665
general waterr te                       187            215        437       633        663         664       1,560       1,7SI
-govenent                               1,96S          2,354     4.628      6.1S2     5.577       S,002       g493        8.404
Total Revenue                          6,446           7,695    14,570    20,136      19.899     33,034      37,007      39,136
Expenes n_                                                               _         _          _           _______=_
Salaries                              2.541           3,613     3,501      6.791     7,659       S,600      13,074      1 5,59
Power                                   934           1.225     3.231      2.51S     2,951       3,944       4,474       6,0SS
Chemicals                               643           1.06S      1,217     1.937      1.744      3,213       5,144       5 98
Fuel & Lubricants                       369            507        525       549        849      1189        1,751       2 44
Repirs & Maint                          449            627        376      1,033      1.499      1,903       2,974       1,162
Contrctual Services                     212            660        945      1,911     2,037       4,901       9,427      10,469
Miscellaneous                           272            349        757       775        S16         764       1,248       6,448
Total Expenses                         5.422           3,049    11.051    15.564      17,555     24,519      3S,092      48.077
Income before depreciation             1,341           1.260     4,574      6,154     4,682      12,461    4.394        (4,449)
Depreciation                            1,121          1,052     1.326      1.324     13,131     12,902      13,334      12565
Interest                                 697            683      1.057      1.782     3,114       4,917       9,037       7,316
Forex Loses                            5.947           1,899     6.2S7     12,762     12.645     26,470      13,240      35,643
Net Income                            (5.924)        (2.374)   (4.095)   (9.887)  (24,208)    (31,828)   (36,267)    (59,973)
Cost/rn'produced                          31             46         59        36         94         131         201        254
Co/rm' billed                             75             105       134       15        222         306         471        52S
Rate/m produced                           37             44         78        III       107         177         195        207
Rate/rn' billed                           89            100        176       239        252         412         457        429
Cash                                   1,790          1,297     2,031      1,883      1.319      3,051       3,909       3
Accounts Receivable                   4.028           7.177     3,996     10.481    10,489      13,923      22,731      34,92
S- inveninents                          335            192         34        55        913       2,229       3,559       1,575
Inventory                              1.593          2.000     3,220      3.825     5,613       6,327       7,034       7,270
Total current assets                   7.746          10.666    14,280     16.250     18,334     31.035      37,233      47,365
Work-in-Proiess                                        9.370    12,430    20.615    24,533       52,701     144,962    275,540
Net Fixed Asset                       35.040          30.464    33,095    36.873   415.287    402,848       405,612     670,660
1,319        939
Tota Assets                         42.786         50.500     59,304    73,738   453,154    487,903      626,129  1,040,930
1iabgites
B.1 Overdmfis                           109            137      1.291        131       589         608        645         340



23
__1990        19I9        1992       1993      1994      1995        19       ''
Acco Paya__                         17,646        20,541    25,076     8.914    10,819      19,385     40,0S9     39,49
Towl oumd liabilitie_      _         17,755        20,673    26,366     9,044    11,408      19,993     40,734     40,339
L7-T Loam  __                        6,170         10.716    16,019    37.056    59,700    102,766    194,576    332,662
TotalLiebilities      <  7   _   23,925          31,394    42,385    46.100    71,108    122,759    235.310    373,001
Net Income                        (17,884)       (20.258)  (24,353)   34.240)  (58,448)   (90,276)  (126,543)   (59,973)
((lnts(local)                        4,767         6.204     8,813    13.068    19,954      29,143     39,556      56,970
Grat (foreign)                       8,111         8.111     S,111      8,111     6,301      7,036     21.109     24,704
Capital Suplus                                                                  361.170    361.170    361.170    361 170
Accumulated Fund                    23,867        24.999    25,223    13,785    13,785      13,785     13,95S     13*958
Accum. Fund (Comm. Wtr.)                                               13.800    31,171     31,170     31,170     31,171
Total Equity                       18.861         19,056    17,794    14.524   373,931    352,028    340.420    428,000
otal Liabilities & Equity            42,786        50,450    60,179    60.624   445,040    474,787    575,730    801,001
Efficiency Indicaton
Working ratio                         75%.          866%      71%       72%       79%         66%        90%        110%
Oprtingratio                          90.           98%       79%.      78'       138%       101%       121%        139%/
AR/Collction Period                    6.7           9.3       6.9        5.8       5.7        6.1        6.4        9.6
Oper. Cost/rM' lr. prod.             31.39         45.88      59.44     86.03     93.96     131.23     200.99     253.68
Liquidity Indicators
Current Ratio                          0.4           0.5       0.5        1.8       1.6        1.6        0.9         1.2
Quick Ratio                            0.3           0.4       0.4        1.4       1.1        1.2        0.7         1.0
Leverage Indicators
Debt Ratio                            56%           62%       71 %      63%        16%        25%        38S%       36%
Debt Equity Ratio                    127%          165%      238%      317%        19%        35%        69%        8r4
Profitability Indicators
Debt ServiceCoverage                  0.27          0.11      0.27      0.16      0.07        0.12       0.02      -0.01
Return on Net Fixed Aset             -0.15          -0.06    -0.09      .0.22    -0.05       .0.07      -0.07      .0.07
Return on Equity                    40.31           -0.12    -0.24      -0.36    -0.06 _      0.09       .0.1       -0.1
No. of Staff                          5,437         4.349     4,378     4.281      4,244      3,952      4,010    3,992
Of which Prof, Tech, Ainin            11%           14%        12%       14%       14%        15%        16%         16%
Other                                 S90'.          6%       88%°      86/%       86%        85%        S4%        84%
Production gsaff (mlr)                 31.8          40.3      42.5      42.3       44.0       47.3       47.3       47.5
No. of co.mwtions per staff            41.0          30.8      29.7      26.8       24.1       202        18.5        18.4
41            41        41        41        41          41         41         41
Tanrf Stnure                _                _ =__ u___                        7___     ____    _ __  _
Unmeered flat rae                     658            658       949      1.237     1,279      2,135      2,135      2,135
Public Standpipes                     219            219       612       861       890       1,486      1,486       1,486
Public Institutions                                  151       209       283       293        489         4S9        489
Metered Rate (C/mr)                          .
0 - 3,000 gIs        203(D)         247(D)             300       414       414        787         787        787
4 - 10,000           349(D)         423(D)             732      1.010     1,010      2,094      2,094      2,094
4S7(C)        590(C)
11 - 25.000          507(D)         614(D)           1,040     1,435      1,435      2,727      2,727      2.727
638(C)        773(C)
26 - 50.000                     0      . .            1,200     1,656     1,656      3,147      3,147      3,147
51 - 100,000                    0                    1,250     1,725      1,725      3,279      3,279      3,279
101 - 200,000                   0                    1,3S0     1,094      1,094      3,619      3,619      3,619
201 - 500,000                   0                 _            2.038     2,038       3,874      3,874      3,874
over 500,000                    0-                                                   4,372      4,372      4,372



24
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Actual   ___          _         _
Sa Of Pr!j.n Cycde                              saff weeb                7            uss
Through Appraisal                                   44 60                                   89.60
Appraisal-13oard                                     5-00                                   10.70
Board-Effectiveness                                  8 80                                   20.30
Supervision                                        203.00                                 487.50
Completion                                          10.20                                   24.90
Total                                              271.60                                 633.00
Sourcc FACT Database
TABLE 14: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
usgs t.rset Cyd.          MeoI         N_mber       Day ha  | peczd  Staff 39ib         Rating     Rathg        Typs at
YwY       tftn    im   Fnild                                 IMpL      Devdop.    r?MN
Identification            02'1988         1          n.a                FA
Preparation               06'1988         2           8               FA. I.N EN
Pre-Appraisal             09/1988         7     |     Is          FA. EN. SE. CON
Appraisal                 11/198S         3           15             FA. EN, SE
Supervision               06/19g9         1           9                 FA                 2          2
Supervision               11/1989         1           13                FA                 I          I
Supervision               07/1990         2           14              FA. EN               1
Supervision               11/1990         2           15              EN,FA                2          1
Supervision               06/11           2  12             T         FA, EN               2          2
Supervision               12/199          3           14              FA.EN                3          2
Supervision               03/1992         1           4                 FA                 2          2
Supervision               06/1992         2           1 T             FA.EN                2          2
Supervision               01/1993         4           5              FA. EN. SE            3          3
Supervision               07/1993         5           18           FA,EN.SE.PO             3          3
Supervision               10/1993         4           10           FA. EN.PO.SE            3          3
Supervision               05/1994         3           II             FA,PO.SE              2          2
Supervision               07/1994         3           22              FA. SE               S          S
Supaevision               11/1994         3          n.s.             FA.SE               U           U
Supervision               03/1995         4          n.a.             FA SE               U           U
Supervision               06/1995         3           21               FA,SE               S          U
Supervision               10/1995         4           14              SE, FA               S          U
Supervision               03/1996         3           3               SE, FA               S          U
Supervision               06/1996         2           4               SE,FA               n-         n a.
Supervision               09/1996         3           7               SE,FA                S          S
Supervision               02/1997         3           12              SE,FA                SU
___________I                                                             --_-                    I             I 
!supervision             102/1998|          4                                                   SE,FA,EC  S  U
CON -     Co<m_                                       I Mno Probin
EC-       EooAmst                                     2 - Modite Pronm
EN        E                                           3. Majo Problem
FA-       PF_I AnW>st                                 S - Saiy
OA        Openmon Am_uiuW                             U. -awfth y
PO.       Pwil Opo Offir                              n - na  mbbb
SE -      Swuiy Enpi



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR 2039-GH)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE: JUNE 1998
I.    A World Bank mission visited Ghana June 15 to 26 to conduct an implementation
completion mission of the Water Sector Rehabilitation Project (CR 2039) which closes on
June 30, 1998. The mission consisted of MessrslMmes David Henley (Team Leader),
Eleanor Warner (Financial Analyst) and Eugene Okongwu (Sanitary Engineer). This Aide
Memoire summarizes the mission's observations of the project status and agreements
reached. The mission wishes to express its appreciation to the Managing Director, Mr.
Charles Adjei, the senior management and staff of the Ghana Water Supply and Sewerage
Corporation (GWSC) for their assistance and cooperation and also for their dedicated work
and contribution in making the ICR workshop a success.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
2.    At the end of each Bank-financed operation, an ICR is prepared. The mission
commenced preparation of the ICR and advised the GWSC on its requirement to prepare an
evaluation reflecting GWSC's views. The mission explained that GWSC's ICR should not
exceed 10 pages, should include a summary and be sent to the Bank by end-September 1998
for inclusion in the final joint ICR document to be presented to the World Bank's Board of
Directors by December 31, 1998.
3.    A one-day implementation completion workshop was convened by the GWSC
providing a forum for stakeholders to share their views on the project. An outcome of the
workshop was the decision to have all of the department heads prepare timebound Action
Plans for operationalizing and maintaining all of the project's investments (GWSC's assets)
over the next 12 months, including detailed maintenance procedures matched by required
cash flow. Commercial targets on metering, household connections, reduction of
unaccounted for water need to be included. Five-year financial projections have been
prepared reflecting appropriate levels of expenses matched by a tariff that covers full costs.
The projections are currently being revised with a view to completion by end-July 1998.
GWSC needs to speed up finalization and continue to utilize the projections as a management
tool.
Credit Closing
4.    The Credit was extended one year to allow completion of agreed actions included in
Attachment I. The targets for the most part were not met. The Credit now closes on June 30,
1998 and disbursements will continue for four months, through October 1998, to complete
disbursements for services received prior to the closing date. Any undisbursed balance will
be cancelled.
Achievement of Project's Objectives
5.    The objective of improving financial performance to allow GWSC to function as a
viable institution has not been achieved. Financial performance has been severely
constrained by a number of factors (i) huge water losses; (ii) inadequate and untimely tariff
increases; (iii) weak commercial practices; and (iv) Cedi devaluation over the life of the
project. Water losses averaged about 57% during 1990 to 1996 but then showed a small but
significant reduction in the period to date; the average tariff applied to sales amounted to less



2
than US$0.20/m3 over the five-year period 1992 to 1997; 30% of receivables are assumed to
be uncollectible each year (GWSC policy). In 1997 bad debt from billings amounted to 10%
of sales implying that only about 40% of water produced formed the basis for covering
expenses, including debt service. It is noted that prior to 1997 production and consumption
metering was very limited and hence the production and consumption figures are only
estimates. The data underscores the difficulty GWSC is experiencing in meeting its financial
viability goals. GWSC's 1997 deficit in operations of 60 billion Cedis puts the cumulative
deficit at 173 billion at end- 1997. GWSC's capital base is virtually eroded. In order to
regain financial equilibrium (without further eroding its capital base) GWSC would need an
injection of at least 50 billion Cedis matched by regular and sufficient tariff increases,
improved commercial and operations and maintenance practices. Several years of project
experience suggest that GWSC would need to be radically transformed in order to achieve
and sustain financial viability, hence the Government's decision to allow private sector
operations is very timely.
6.    GWSC is instituting a number of measures to help improve its cash flows as included
in the Operational Plan attached, including installation of prepaid meters, recruitment of a
private company to collect arrears, restructuring of the commercial department, actively
working on leakage reduction, etc. These measures are laudable, but are insufficient to
provide the liquidity GWSC urgently needs to complete the project, and meet other pressing
current liabilities.
7.    The objective to improve GWSC's financial capability was partially achieved. New
recruitment since 1992 has increased the number of professional accountants and financial
analysts to an appropriate level. Staff benefitted from in-house training in financial
management conducted by an international accounting firm and external training, which
helped GWSC to produce and effectively use financial projections as a management tool.
The project financed an international financial management specialist who helped clarify
roles and functions of the various divisions within the FM department based on a study
completed in June 1992. Computerization has been recently introduced and final accounts
are being prepared for audits. In the past the audits have been delayed, but it is expected that
computers would help with reconciliations (which has been a cause of delay) and speed up
the accounting cycle. Staff would need to continue upgrading financial management
capacity, but may be unable to do so because of GWSC's cash constraint.
8.    The objective to strengthen the managerial capability of GWSC both at headquarters
and in the regions to enable it to effectively plan and implement a meaningful development
program was partially achieved. A twinning arrangement with Thames Water International
(TWI), UK, early in the project provided useful professional exposure to senior GWSC staff
who were seconded to TWI for brief periods. This arrangement came to a premature end in
1992 as GWSC was no longer able to secure the necessary Government approvals for staff
travel. Additionally, two training centers were rehabilitated and equipped and training
sessions are now held year round primarily for junior and mid-level staff. Rehabilitaiton and
procurement and installation of equipment as envisaged at appraisal are not completed, and
priority should be given to completing them in line with the operational plan (Attachment
II). A further measure to achieve this objective included increasing staff support to the
Managing Director, this was done though four new appointments (Executive Assistant,
Solicitor, Internal Auditor, Corporate Planner) which appear to be working effectively. Two'
retrenchment exercises carried out in 1991 and 1993 reduced the number of junior staff and
temporarily increased the professional staff. Further recruitment of professional staff is
constrained by weak cash flows, loss of staff to the private sector and deterioration of
conditions of service.



3
9.    The creation of a project management cell (PCMU) at headquarters staffed with
international experts and local counterpart staff was intended to expedite all aspects of the
project (accounting for multi-currency donor funds, engineering supervision, technical
studies, disbursements etc). This arrangement was partially effective. On the one hand, the
arrangement was deemed necessary given GWSC's weak project management capacity at the
project start. However, the manager of the PCMU was frequently changed (a total of 6
managers since 1989) which affected the necessary continuity. With respect to the
counterpart staff at the PCMU, they were exposed to modern methods of project management
and benefitted from this. Unfortunately, they were redeployed before the project was
completed and GWSC is now left without capacity to monitor/supervise the completed works
or those expected to be completed within one year.
Physical and Operational Objectives
10.   The project was also intended assist GWSC to: (i) reduce the levels of non-revenue
earning water; (ii) increase the output of existing water systems by replacement of plant and
equipment and by general system rehabilitation; and (iii) provide for the expansion of some
systems and completion of others to further increase water availability. The increase in water
production achieved under the project may not result in commensurate increase in the
population served with reliable water supply until the high unaccounted for water in the
distribution systems is adequately addressed. A proposed pilot program in three towns
(Cape Coast, Sekondi-Takoradi, and Kumasi) involving mapping, distribution system
improvement, and leak detection and repair was not implemented. Production meters have
been procured and installation is ongoing though hampered by shortage of cash to expedite
installation. A similar situation applies to zonal meters. As evidenced in attachment I,
installation of zonal meters by mid-June 1998 is only 4% of the target set 18 months earlier.
Distribution staff in about four regions have been trained on leak reduction procedures. It is
recommended that passive leak detection and repair procedures be implemented in most
systems until financing for an active program becomes available. This will require increased
budgetary allocation for repair materials and installation of zonal meters.
11.   Restoration of inoperative systems has been completed satisfactorily though after a
lengthy delay. At appraisal about one third of GWSC's 208 water supply systems were not
functional. Under the emergency replacement programs (immediate action program - IAP,
and priority replacement program - PRP) the project restored operation in 44 systems.
Restoration of operation in the remaining 13 systems was undertaken under another project.
12.   GWSC was not able to conclude cofinancing agreements for the rehabilitation and
expansion works in the 37 priority systems identified at appraisal. Six of these systems were
transferred to other ongoing projects. Contracts for another six systems in the Eastern
Region could not be awarded because financing proposed from CFD did not materialize. As
the desigps and bidding documents for these systems had been prepared, GWSC needs to
secure financing for the works.
13.   Work did not start on the 25 systems financed by PMC, DFID, and OECF until 1996
(five years after Credit effectiveness). Consequently completion of works in some of the
systems will extend beyond the Credit Closing Date through to December 1999. The mission
advised that IDA financing of engineering services for construction supervision of works in
the Western and Central Regions (PMC financed) and Ashanti and Brong Ahafo Regions
(DFID financed) will terminate on June 30, 1998. GWSC needs to make arrangements for
financing these services after June 30 or alternatively adopt other supervision arrangements.



4
14.   GWSC has had difficulty mobilizing adequate counterpart funds for the project
components not financed 100% by the donors. If financing of counterpart funds is not
resolved soon and satisfactorily, completion of some contracts (OECF financed Tamale and
Wa, OECF financed stores and workshops, etc.) may not be realized.
15.   The project will meet the objective of securing and increasing output in the prioritv
systems. The total output from the 31 priority systems in 1989 was 146,000 m3/day.
Proposed output after rehabilitation and expansion is 230,000m3/day. Current potential
production of 203,000m3/day is already significantly above the 1989 level due to the
emergency replacement works and the completion of rehabilitation in a few systems. At
completion of the ongoing contracts in 25 systems, potential output is projected to increase to
268,000m 3/day. Actual production is lower than potential because of frequent power
interruption occasioned by the country's ongoing energy crisis.
16.   There are defects in some of the rehabilitated systems which need to be rectified
soon. These defects include non functioning filter valves, leaks in filter valves, stiffened raw
water and wash water pumps, faulty motor control panels, poor performance of
sedimentation basins and flash mixing facility. GWSC, consultants and contractors need to
agree on workplan for correcting these defects. GWSC staff should be given adequate
training in operation and maintenance of the new plant and equipment prior to handover of
the systems to GWSC and they should also be held accountable for proper operations and
maintenance.
17.   To improve O&M practices, maintenance tools and equipment were procured and
workshops and stores are being upgraded. In-plant training was given to operations staff. A
planned maintenance procedure (PMP) was not implemented because of budgetary
constraint. Installation of PMP procedures may be more appropriate on completion of the
ongoing rehabilitation works at the systems and would require sustained technical assistance
support and adequate budgetary allocation.
Sunma    of Assessments
18.   The project was implemented during a period of considerable management
instability. From 1991 to 1998 there were 5 Managing Directors of GWSC serving in acting
terms for most of that period. The PCMU also witnessed frequent management turnover
with 6 managers during the project period. Project startup was effectively delayed by 2 1/2
years with disbursements picking up only in 1993 when the LAP and PRP were launched. If
the momentum had been sustained then implementation could have been completed within
the original Credit Closing Date of June 30, 1997, but delays were met by further delays and
implementation of physical works started only in 1996, by which time the scope of works
was inadequate to meet the demand of a fast-growing urban population. Achievement of the
financial and commercial objectives of the project was similarly affected by lengthy
bureaucratic delays.
19.   The water supply system is in a very fragile state and would need an urgent injection
of cash just to allow it to respond modestly to the needs of customers. GWSC would need to
carry out further rehabilitation and replacement as appropriate. Expansion is also necessary
to meet huge unmet demand. At the same time, GWSC needs to accelerate its measures to
enumerate customers, update customer registers, meter and prepare bills that reflect
consumption and aim to collect over 95% of billed water. All of these activities require cash
which GWSC urgently needs; commitment to corporate goals and accountability at all levels
is essential.



5
The Way Forward
20.    GWSC will have to dedicate considerable time and effort to improving its
perfornance in the short term in order to keep afloat. It would need an immediate injection
of cash to meet in addition to its normal expenses: (i) local expenses on the Wa and Tamale
contracts; (ii) installation of production and zonal meters; (iii) tools and equipment to
maintain plant; (iv) programs to reduce leakages in consumer service lines; and (v)
incremental running expenses for vehicles, motorbikes, computers and other equipment
procured under the project. The Government's continued commitment to restructuring the
sector to improve efficiency with the assistance of the private sector helps to pave the way
for a brighter future for the water sector.
Next Steps
21.   It was agreed that the Bank would forward a copy of its draft ICR to GWSC for
review and comments no later than August 15, 1998. GWSC has agreed to forward its own
final evaluation report on the project together with comments on the Bank's draft ICR by
end September. The Bank will also make available the draft ICR to the other cofinanciers
(DFID, OECF, ADC, AfDB and CFD) for their comments. The final ICR incorporating
GWSC's own evaluation will be produced in December 1998 as mentioned in para 2 above.



6
ATTACHMENT U
Ghana: Water Sector Rehabilitation Project (CR 2039)
Operational Plan
A. Project Finalization                                                   Date to Complete
Advise Bank of all final contract values (IDA financed  GWSC              July 31, 1998
components).
Send final disbursement request for IDA components to    GWSC             October 31, 1998
the Bank (Washington)
Complete contracts in line with schedule below:     GWSC, Consultants,
Contractors
Systems in West and Central Regions (ADC financed)                        Sept. 30, 1998
Systems in Volta Region (OECF Financed)                                   August 31, 1998
Systems for Tamale and Wa (OECF financed)                                 March 31, 1999
Systems in Ashanti and Brong Ahafo Regions (DFID                          December 31, 1999
financed)
Construction of stores and workshops (OECF)                               Dec 31, 1998
Complete installation of consumer meters (OECF                            December 31, 1998
fmanced)
Resolve outstanding issues on completed,contracts   GWSC, Consultants,   September 30, 1998
Contractors
Award contracts for supply and installation of radio  GWSC                September 30, 1998
communication equipment (OECF financed)
Arrange financing of construction supervision services  GWSC, GOG         August 31, 1998
previously financed by IDA
Arrange financing for counterpart funds of ongoing  GWSC, GOG             July 15, 1998
contracts
Complete construction of 2 workshops and demonstration  GWSC              July 31, 1998
shed at Weija training school
Equip workshops and demonstration shed             GWSC                   September 30, 1998
B. Engineering Operations
Train O&M staff prior to handover of rehabilitated  GWSC, Consultants,   July 1998 to
systems                                             Contractors           December 1999
Implement passive leak detection and repair measures in   GWSC            July 1998 to
rehabilitated systems in each region                                      December 1999
Complete installation of production meters          GWSC                  September 30, 1998



7
Complete installation of zonal meters                 GWSC                   September 30, 1998
Implement improved maintenance procedure in           GWSC                   September 1998 to
rehabilitated systems                                                        December 1999
C. FinanciaUCommercial Management
Finalize five year financial projections              GWSC                   July 15, 1998
Implement computerized accounting system in ATMA,    GWSC                    October 31, 1998
Kumasi, Head Office
Implement computerized billing in Tema                GWSC                   November 30, 1998
Restructure commercial department                     GWSC                   Ongoing
Install pilot scheme for pre-paid meters              GWSC                   started May 1998
Retain firm for arrears collection                    GWSC                   started April 1998
D. ICR Preparation
Send draft ICR to GWSC                                World Bank             August 15-30, 1998
Complete GWSC's evaluation of the Water Sector        GWSC                   September 30, 1998
Rehabilitation Project for incorporation into the ICR
E. Reform Process
Launch public awareness campaign                      WSRS/GWSC              July 15, 1998
Commission various studies to completion              WSRS/Donors            June to October
1998
Prequalify potential bidders                          WSRS/MWH               June through
December 1998
Convert GWSC to GWC Ltd.                              WSRS/MWH               December 31, 1998
GWSC
Hand over small towns to CWSD                                                December 31, 1998
Agree on investment package                           GWSC/MWH/Donors   December 31, 1998
Bidding process                                       WSRS/MWH/GWC           January through
December 1999



GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION                                                                          Attachment I
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR 2039)
PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
Dec-96             Mar-97         Jun-97                 Sep-97              Dec-97                Mar-98                 Jun-98
Planned   Actual   Planned   Actual   Planned Actual    Planned Actual      Planned    Actual    Planned    Actual        Planned     Actual
Physical works % completed:
ODA/DFID Package 1                      26    n.a.         61     n.a.        72        58       80        78        89         82        100         100          100        100
ODA/DFID Package 2                            n.a.        -       n.a.         8         6       25        23        72  n.a.             100          90          100         90
ODA/DFID Package 3a                           n.a.          2    n.a.          4  n.a.           I I  n.a.           23  n.a.              38  n.a.                 56      90 \1
ODA/DFlD Package 3b &                  -      n.a.          2    n.a.          4       -         I                   23                    38         -             56        -
ODA/FID Package 4                             n.a.          2    n.a.          4       -         I                   23                    38          13           56         30
Austrian Package                        44    n.a.         58    n.a.         77        73       81        83        92         90        100          90          100         95
OECF Works Package I & 2                I 1    n.a.        25     n.a.        38        50       47        55        61          70        76          80           87         95
OECF Works Package 3                      .I  n.a.         25        -        38       -         47                  61         40         76          70           87         75
OECF Works Package S                    1 1    n.a.        25     n.a.        38  n.a.           47  n.a.            61  n.a.              76  n.a.                 87         90
reditdisbursements (Sm)                 19.3      19.8    20.5       20.2    21.7      20.2     22.9      20.7       24.1       21.3       25.3         22          26.5     n.a
For ATMA, Kumasi & SekITak combined:
Consumer meters installed: No.        54,122             58,322             60,322   60,000   84,122    64,000   124,122    100,000   126,122    115,000         127,722   120,000
% oftotat customers      35%                37%                39%/o    39%/.    53%       40%        78%        62%        79%        71%           80ft       75%
Zonal meters instiled:    No.                               -                                     50        -         250         -         450          6           500         20
%of total planned         W%                 0%i.               0%                10'A      0%        50%         0%        90%          1 %        100/.        4%
i Production metes installed: No.           19                 19                 19        19      24         19        30         19         40          19           40         21
% of total headworks    50%                 50h                50%      50/.    60%A       50%        75%        50%       100%        50%/.        100%        50%
Avg. monthly billing (Cedi mill)       2,688    3,117    2,945      3,313    3,735    3,128    3,735      3,267     3,735      3,455      4,572      4,895         4,572  7765\4
Avg. monthly collection (Cedi mill)    2,632    3,042    2,601      2,575    3,436    2,902    3,436      3,037     3,436      2,878      3,981      3,441         3,981      3,435
Nor«
Progress on the OECF packages are as follows:
Pack  I £2 Volb Regi - omWled
P e 3Ta.  Wa- 75% om  withthpoublity of edy cotacttmm due& oWSLusfaleto pay locai co3
Pkae 5 Stua& Wmrkhwp - 90A coplWect mid in p loca
PoeeuD o the ae mud prodtim meri%n coutried by OWSCs lck of h.
I Ex     copplon (ODAJD plck) ewcmbe1999.
U i    d cbln- (PMC-Austio pake) Judy 199 trugh Ju-uwy 1999.
Exped competi (OfCF pekg) December 1995.
' Pugsureetwve
INDICATO.XLS 11:3141A



GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGECORPORATION
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
EVALUATION REPORT
1.   INTRODUCTION
At a Water Supply and Sanitation Conference held in Accra in September 1987.
GWSC presented a five - year rehabilitation and development plan, the focus of which
was the restoration of water services in urban and semi-urban areas and increasing the
percentage of population served in rural areas.
Consequently, the World Bank - led Water Sector Rehabilitation Project (WSRP) was
initiated in 1989.
1.1.  Project Objectives
The objectives of the project were:
(1)   To secure an adequate and reliable water supply.
(ii)   To strengthen the managerial. financial and technical capabilities of GWSC
1.2.  Project Components
To achieve the above objectives the scope of the Project comprised Institutional
development; Emergency replacements: Rehabilitation of 33 Water Supply Systems
in 8 regions of Ghana; Improvement of workshops, stores and training centres and
provision of staff housing ; Supply of essential equipment and materials: and
Technical studies.
1.3   Financing of the Project
The Project is being financed by IDA of the World Bank, the DFID of UK.
Government of Austria, OECF of Japan. AFD of France and African Development
Bank (AfDB). GWSC provides the local funding for the projects.
2.    ASSESSMENT   OF   PRlOJECT   DESIGN.  IMPLEMENTATION   AND
OPERATION EXPERIENCE
GWSC implemented the project with assistance from consultants both in the detailed
design stage and in the supervision of construction and installation.
2.0. ImDlementatison Period
The project was foreseen to be implemented over seven years (1990 - 1996).
However our latest programming indicate a completion date of late 1999, i.e. over ten
years after project take-off.
Some of the reasons accounting for the delays include difficulty in fulfillment of
conditions precedent to effectiveness of the credit, agreement on scope, confirmation-
of funding and contract packaging, re-packaging of documents and re-tendering, an4 -
delays between tender and signature of contracts.



It is to be noted that the original implementation schedule did not allow for
Engineering Planning and Design. During the implementation this component has
taken three (3) years to accomplish.
2.1   Emereencv Replacement
This component involved replacing electrical, mechanical, and water treatment
components of some systems. prior to full implementation of the main phvsical
works. 44 systems became operative as a result of this intervention. The remaining 1'3
systems were taken up by other projects.
2.2   Construction of Workshogs. Stores. Training School and Provision of Staff
Housino
Some buildings that were constructed at the Weija Training School included
Kitchen/Laundry, Demonstration  Block, Laboratory, Workshop. and 2 Staff
Bungalows Necessary equipment for the Laboratory and kitchen has also been
provided for the school. All the above works except the Demonstration Block and
Workshop have been completed.
Works on the construction/rehabilitation of 56 stores/workshop at regional and district
levels are in progress.
40 of these have been completed. The remaining is scheduled to be completed by
December 1998.
A 12-unit block was also acquired to house staff.
2.3   Vehicles. Tools And EauiRment
202 vehicles have been procured to facilitate the operations and maintenance work of
the GWSC.
Tools and Equipment for the Regional workshops (including Central and Base
workshops) and 3 No. Metershops, Computers, Water meters and Laboratory
Equipment have been procured with OECF funding.
About 60% of the equipment have been put to use, consequently improving the
operations and maintenance of the systems. The meters are being installed.
The remaining tools and equipment are yet to be installed pending the completion of
works on the Regional Workshops and upgrading of power supply to these sites.
The IDA also funded The supply of 13,500 consumer meters and a number of bulk
meters. The meters have been installed.
Tenders for Procurement of Radio Communication Equipment (OECF) is being
evaluated.
Computers for Ashanti, ATMA & Western Regions have been procured for the
improvement in commercial and financial activities.
The World Bank Mission of June 1992 agreed to finance the procurement of a weed
harvester for the Weija Lake to reduce the vegetative infestation around the intake
tower. The weed harvester has since been launched on the Weija Lake.
2.4   Rehabilitation Of Water Supplv Systems
page 2              Water Sector Rehabilitation Project - ICR, 98



2.4.1  Priority Replacement Programme
The two Engineering Consultants (GIBB and JWP) on the WSRP identified the
Priority Replacement Programme at the inception of their services. Equipment
necessarv to keep some of the 33 systems operative ahead of the main rehabilitation
works were procured and installed at Asamankese. Nsawam. Saltpond. Iuabeng.
Effiduasse-Asokore. Mampong, Tepa, Berekum and Dormaa-Ahenkro.
2.4.2 Austrian Financed Project (Western and Central Regions)
The Contract for the Rehabilitation of 7 Water Supply Systems (Sekondi-Takoradi.
Axim. Prestea. Dunkwa - on- Offin. Cape Coast. Asikuma & Kwanyaku) which
commenced in February 1996. are expected to be completed by September 1998.
2.4.3  DFID Financed Project (Ashanti & Brong-Ahafo))
Under the above component of the WSRP, II water supply systems were proposed to
be financed by DFID. Due to alternative funding, 2 systems (Techiman and Obuasi)
were deleted from this component. The remaining 9 systems were later repackaged as
below:
DFID Two Reaions Proiect (Package I - Kumasi and Sunvani): Construction by
TWC commenced in February 1996 and was completed in March 1988. Water
Supply to Kumasi has been increased as planned. Supply to Sunyani has been
increased beyond that initially planned.
DFID Two Regions Proiect (Packages 2.3 and 4 - Seven Towns Supply): For
economic reasons, separate contract packages were prepared for the supply of
equipment, well drilling and equipment installations and the civil work element of the
seven systems of Juaben, Effiduase-Asokore, Mampong, Kona, Tepa. Berekum and
Dormaa-Ahenkro. These will be completed by the end of 1999.
DFID have recently taken over responsibility for the local funding.
Delays occurred in the period prior to the award of contracts. These were primarily
associated with agreement on scope, confirmation on funding and contract packaging,
re-packaging of documents and re-tendering.
2.4.4 OECF Funded Tamale & Wa
Construction by Sogea is ongoing, currently 75% complete, with completion schedule
for March 1999. Following commencement delays and increased costs associated
with non-payment of the advance, the works were reduced by approximately 30% (in
financial terms) to fit within the available budget. In March 1997 the contractor gave
notice of a reduction in the rate of works resulting from non-payment of certificates.
As a result certain items of the works have been placed "on hold".
2.4.5  Inland & Coastal Volta
This project is the Rehabilitation of 7 Water Supply Systems in Volta Region viz.:
Anyarko, Keta-Anloga, Aflao - Denu, Nkonya - Ahenkro, Sovie-Digbe, Hohoe and
Ho. Construction is scheduled for completion by end of June.
The results of borehole rehabilitation have been disappointing. Designs were based .
on the results (yields) of the redevelopment programme completed by the end of 1992. .
Yields from the rehabilitated boreholes have been significantly lower then anticipated
page 3              Water Sectpr Rehabilitabon Project - ICR, 98



2.4.6  Rehabilitation Of 6 Water Supply Systems in the Eastern Region
Due to inetfectiveness of CFD loan. rehabilitation of the 6 systems in the Eastem
Region has not been executed.
2.4.7  Lessons Learnt
100% external funding is desirable for smooth implementation of future projects. Bv
this de!ay in payment will be minimized.
Since the time lapse between preparation and implementation takes so long (about 10
years in this case), it should be reflected in the design horizons for the projects. In
this case, even though the design year was 1995 and 1990 for some of the svstems.
physical works had even not began by then.
Generally, the contracts have been difficult to implement. The condition of existing
installations surveyed for the planning reports in 1992/93 had altered when work was
carried out from 1996 onwards.
Different dates for effectiveness of the credit facilities by funding agencies is making
the overall duration longer.
2.5.  Technical Studies
2.5.1 Consulting Services For The Expansion Of Tamale Water Supply: Under the
WSRP, Messrs. Cowi provided consulting services for the design that has formed the
basis for the Tamale Water Supply Expansion project slated to    commence soon.
2.5.2 Consulting Services For The Improvement Of GWSC M.I.S: The Management
Information System (M.I.S) Master Plan. prepared by Messrs. Intelligent Solutions
under the project, has been accepted by GWSC. Pilot of the Master plan is being
implemented.
2.5.3  Consulting Services For The Training Of Financial Staff: In an effort to improve
on the Financial Management of the GWSC, Messrs. Price Water House was
appointed to train the GWSC accounting staff on financial management.
2.5.4  Customer Management Study In ATMA: Customer inventory and mapping project
has been carried out in ATMA.
Findings emanating from the study are being implemented.
2.5.5 Consulting Services For Koforidua Water Supply Expansion Study: Draft contract
documents for the consulting service could not be signed due to   ineffectiveness of
the CFD direct loan.
2.5.6  Consulting Services For the Study of the Investment & Development of ATMAi
The CFD is financing the above project with a FF12 million grant. Messrs. Otui
International have been engaged to carry out the service. The services have resulted in
the following:
ATMA's Master plan has been updated to the year 2010. A Planning Unit has also
been established to ensure that ATMA's development programme is complied with.
2.5.7 Assets Revaluation: Study has been carried out, and has resulted in the updating of
GWSC's fixed assets.
2.5.8 Tariff Study_has also been completed
page 4              Water Sector Rehabitetior Project - ICR, 98



2.5.9 Hydrological Studies to identify optional raw water sources for the systems to be
rehabilitated were carried out.
2.5.10 Accra Sewerage Disposal Study to determine optional sewage disposal method for
the City of Accra was carried out.
2.5.11 Inspection & Maintenance of Dams were undertaken for the Weija and Brimsu
dams.
2.5.12 Strategic Investment Plan to govern GWSC's future investment has also been
completed.
2.6  Institutional Development
2.6.1 Recruitment
GWSC continued its efforts to recruit some key personnel comprising engineers.
technicians, financial and administrative specialists, with a view to mostly build
capability at the regional centres. Positions filled by these professionals include an
Executive Assistant to the Managing Director, Stores Managers. Regional
Commercial Officers. Accountants. and Administrative Officers.
A total of 187 persons in the various disciplines were recruited. The modest progress
was however curtailed by the resignation of about 60 of the recruited staff.
2.6.2 Redeployment
A total of 1451 Staff were retrenched between 1991 and 1993. This was made up of
1035 in 1991 and 416 in 1993.
2.6.3 Training and Career Advancement
Staffs of the Project Management and Construction Unit (PCMU) by their attachment
with Project Management Consultants, Messrs. Tahal Engineering Ltd. have benefited
from on-the-job training on Project Management. Seminars and other external training
courses have also been organized for them.
Training on 0 & M through Seminars and workshops have been conducted under the
project. Regional 0 & M staff also gained on - the - job training by visits of the 0 &
M Specialist of PMC.
A number of Accountants received training in financial management both locally and
abroad, and also from the PMC Financial Expert.
Based on the needs of staff, local training programmes have been implemented at the
Weija and Owabi Training schools.
3.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
a)    The rehabilitation of the 33 systems is on-going and at various levels of
completion. It is already evident that production of water has increased from 147,770
to 184,325 cunmday. Annual production is expected to increase because the project
has improved raw water sources for some of the systems, thus improving on the low
production previously experienced during the dry season. Without the rehabilitation
the conditions of the systems would have been disastrous since most of the equipment.
had deteriorated as a result of lack of maintenance at the time of inception. The impact
may not be as expected due to the time lapse between the planning and completion.
page 5              Water Sector Rehabilitaton Project - ICR, 98



inception. The impact may not be as expected due to the time lapse between the
planning and completion.
b)    The process of strengthening  the Managerial. hinancial and technical
capabilities of the GWSC some success has been achieved by way of recruitment of
professionals. training of staff both locally and abroad on management practice and
also on-the-job experience. -
The impact of the WSRP with regard to improvements in financial management is
evidenced by the removal of the audit qualification on fixed assets. and capital
restructuring. GWSC now has a reliable database of all its fixed assets. Overall
performance of the middle level finance staff has seen remarkable improvement. The
computerization of finance and commercial department would greatly enhance
performance of these departments. and make the impact much more visible. However.
GWSC's overall financial performance is still unsatisfactory.
The finance and commercial departments were able to produce accounting and
revenue manuals.
Metering ratio has risen from 33% in the early 1990s to 65% by the I' quarter of
1998. and is expected to reach 80% when the present meter installation exercise is
completed
c)    Improvements in GWSC's Operations and Maintenance have been met by the
supply of vehicles, workshop tools and equipment, computers for data capture and
analysis and training of the staff.
The O&M activities resulted in the improvement in the recording and analysis of
production data as well as monitoring of operational indices with regard to the pilot
systems. Metering of the major production centers has led to improved reliability of
production data.
Reduction in levels of Non-Revenue Water (NRW) has not been as expected. This is
because the activities under the project did not adequately cater for NRW. However.
the following activities have undertaken to reduce levels of NRW.
(1)   Identification and Replacement of aged pipes that are prone to leakage.
(2)   Distribution extensions to newly developed areas to minimise the laying of
long service lines.
(3)   Identification and registration of unregistered customers
(4)   Increase in metering ratio.  (This activity is currently on-going with the
installation of about 93,500 consumer meters in total)
(5)   Improvement in recording of production data (This activityhas been done and
is yielding results).
4   PERFORMANCE OF GWSC
At the inception of the project, its major risks were identified as relating to:
I)    GWSC's capability to satisfactorily implement a major project of this size
ii)    GWSC's ability to contribute the required counter part funds.
page 6              Water Sector RehabiUtation Project - ICR, 98



With regard to the former, the strengthening of the PCMU and the appointment of the
PMC effectively mitigated this risk. GWSC have been able to manage the project
quite satisfactorily. However, with regard to the latter. the risk been real. The failure
of Government to grant acceptable tariffs, as well as GWSC's failure to significantly
improve on the level of unaccounted for water imposed severe constraints on GWSC's
ability to generate the required counterpart funds.
The above has had negative impact on contracts such as the Rehabilitation of Stores
and Workshops. Rehabilitation of Water Supplv Systems in Volta Region. and
Rehabilitation of Tamale and Wa Water Supply Systems
In the case of DFID - assisted Two-Region Project. the inability of GWSC to meet the
counter part funds necessitated soliciting the assistance of the Ministry of Finance and
subsequently DFID itself to meet the counterpart funding
i.    BANK/DONOR PERFORMANCE
5.1   World Bank
The Banks performance was satisfactory. Supervision missions were regular and
provided the opportunities for discussions between GWSC and the Bank on issues
relating to the project. Disbursements also went without any problems.
However the Bank's refusal to extend the credit any fiurther will jeopardize some
components of the project- especially the Project Management and Engineering
Supervision Consultants.
5.2   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF)
The OECF missions were not as regular as the World Bank Missions. However, they
(OECF) appointed a monitoring Consultant to over see and monitor their component.
The OECF has also been co-operative.
5.3   DFID
The DFID also sent regular missions to oversee their components of the project. When
it became evident that GWSC was having problems in meeting the counterpart funds.
they assisted in persuading the MoF to take up the counterpart funds. Later. they took
up the remaining of the counterpart funding themselves with the granting of about 3.5
million pounds sterlings (£3 Million) to GOG.
Their performance is highly commendable.
5.4   Austrian Government
The Austrian Government appointed a consultant to monitor their component of the
project. This consultant has been regular at the various missions.
GWSC application to the Austrian Government for funds to raise the Brimsu Dam is
still pending.
5.5   Agence Francaise de Development
Financing for the rehabilitation of 6 systems and other technical studies have not been
obtained. However, two consulting services have been carried out in ATMA with.
finances from the AFD.
page 7              Water Sector Rehabilitation Project - ICR, 98



6.    SUSTAINABILITY OF PROJECT
Whilst the sustainability of some aspects of the project appears good. others are
doubtful.
Until the recent tariff increases granted to the GWSC, tariffs remained the same for
the past two (2) years even though operational cost had been increasing and the cedi
had been depreciating in value against major currencies.
It is obvious that adequate tariffs would be required to sustain the project's
achievements. It is hoped that subsequent realistic tariffs will be approved especiallv
with the establishment of the Public Utilities Regulatory Commission (PURC).
It is also hoped that with the introduction of Private Sector Participation (PSP) in the
water supply sector, there will be improvement in management and cost recoverv
from users will be achievable, thus ensuring sustainability of the project.
However, the above will hold only if the national socio-economic environment will
allow consumers to be able to afford to pay economic tariffs.
Also GWSC is in the process of transferring about 1 10 of the least viable systems to
the District Assemblies/Communities. When this is done. it will ease the situation
where these less viable systems are being subsidized by the others.
In all cases of the rehabilitated works. sustainability will be verv dependent on
maintenance and associated financing. For systems with boreholes. sustainabililtv of
supply will be heavily dependent on aquifer monitoring and avoidance of over-
pumping.
7.    PLAN FOR OPERATIONAL PHASE
It is to be noted that the component of the project involving the rehabilitation of the
water supply systems has not been completed. Together with the defect liabilitv
period, the implementation phase of these components will be completed in the year
2000. GWSC will require financing to maintain the presence of the Project
Management Consultants and the Engineering Consultants. This situation has arisen
as a result of the closing of the IDA Credit at the end of June 1998.
GWSC intends to carry out the following programme as a follow - up to the project:
-  About 110  systems will be transferred  from  GWSC  to  the  District
Assemblies/Communities which will be responsible for the management of the
systems. A Consultant to advise GWSC on the implementation arrangements for
the transfer has been engaged. Their final report is expected around the end of July
1998. Funding will be required to rehabilitate some of the systems before transfer.
- Under the Project, GWSC has prepared a Strategic Investment Plan (SIP) which it
hopes to follow for future projects.
- The Ministry of Works and Housing has also indicated its intention to introduce
Private Sector Participation in the Water Sector through lease arrangements from
source to end user.
page 8              Water Sector Rehabilitaton Project - ICR, 98



8.    PROJECTS COSTS
The latest project estimate is about US$ 117 Million. This seems to be within the SAR
estimate of US$125 Million.
It may be noted that costs overruns have been observed in the execution of some
components of the project especially in the technical studies and Engineering services.
This has been due to the extended project duration from 7 to 10 years.
Costs savings noticed in some component projects have been due to reduction in the
scope of works as a result of other interventions or lack of funds. For instance DFID
funded rehabilitation of 9 systems instead of II as previously envisaged whilst scope
for Ho in the Volta Region was reduced following the implementation of another
project.
Other project components have not been implemented due to lack of funds. Such
projects include Rehabilitation of 6 systems in the Eastern Region.
page 9              Water Sector Rehabilitation Project - ICR, 98



WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE I - SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
PACKAGE    ITEM             COMPONENTS                   APPRAISAL ESTIMATE JSS 000)              ACTUAIJ/ATEST ESTIMATE(USS 000)                 REMARKS
Local Costs    Foreign Cosis     Total      Local Costs  Foreigni Costs    Total
Rebabilitation and Expansion
of 31 Water systems by Regions                            _                          _
OECF I& 2      c      Volta                                   3,551        8A129          11,847         758           4,298          5,056 Rcduced scope for llo
ADC         b      Western and Central                     5,062        15,946         21,008            0         20 570         20,570 Works in linie wilit budget
DFID        a      Ashanti and Broag Abafo                 8,994         17,451        26,44  13..V                12,513         15,642 Scope inodified
OECF 3       d      Northern and'Upper West                 2,101          455            6,654       1,560          8,837         10397 Scope niodified
AFD         e     Eastern                                  2,478         5,582          8,060           0              0               0 No funding
f     Upper East                                 49           143            192                                   0        Transferred go cIDA
Restore Inoperative Systems
IAP         2     and Immediate Action Plan                 380          1,520          1,900                      3,191           3,814 IAP and PRP combined
(IAP)                                    ___
_______  3    Buildias                                 _
OECFS         a     Workshop and Stores                      1,163         1,745          2,908       2,476          3,026          5  502
IDA         b     Training Centres                         1,870           438          2,308         314            560            874
IDA         c     Staff Housiag                            3,272         2,181          5,453     350                  0            350
4     Equipment and Materials
OECF6        a      Vehicles (OECF)                           218          4,144          4,362          74          3,638          3,712
IDA         b     Spare Parts                                73_    1_381               1 454-                                        0
IDA         c     Computers (IDA)                            21            407            436                        665            665 II)A comspulers only
OECF7         d     Communucation Equipment                    Is           349            364           39          1,960           I )9 TIcnider Evalultion
IDA         e     Chemicals                                 218          4144           4,362           0          3L255           3 255
IDA         f     Lab Equip. & Vehicle (IDA)                    _          20             219     196__    __    196 Lab.
Tools include Meters,
OECF 4              Workshop Tools                             29             44             7                      17,337          19,137 Coiputers, Lab equip. &
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   eiet srs h o
IDA         5     Meters IDA                                378            785          1,163           0            688            688 IDA funded meters only
AIDFID/OE      6      Engineering                             2 268          5 278          7,54            O _        Mi            11 487 Extended duration
)A/CFD/A       7      TecbnIcal Studies                       2 138          2 138         4 276            0          7 223          7 223
IDA         8     Technical Assistance                      509          7,640          8,149           0          5 697           5 697
_ _ 9  Staff Redeployment                     5,816              -          58                                          584
ESTIMATED=                                                 TOTAL=-_             124,995                                    116,848
9/22/98                                    Rate to 1US$: 127.53JPY; 0.6L; 12 64ATS; 1.81DM, FF5.98; 02248



MAP SECTION



B U R K I N A     F ASO A               5 °                                     2-! ..d ro        MA O.A-' F
K           !         ---7-a            * .r;- .  jeA..  . , 4                                                         GHANA
Ii. ~     ~         ~        .          -          =K                                                   $     SrJ
Lea -                                  .     -      R e g i o nl               ._                 COTEll E , ,(
U p p e r   W  e s t                              rTh     r-' 'Y                               \
W__,       '          ~~~~~~~/'       .   /t '           Ge.eg                              A .'_
R .    R e g I o nWele
>WA
-IA.          )       ) a,                                                                                                            AlJ,       /    
I,                                               PI
/V  ,o           h  e                           r   17       -' 
_      g     z k'A --   ~                                        eng Tamale                      I  4
D' I         V                                   - - R E
Scale                                                                           Soer  A~
r (            r         A         BsnA  OA      e      ,               -gr                  S
B ole           Deeno                 Nr°er'so      ~       Pelbe                       ( ~' f9
M                                          AAM 
-~~~~~~~~ 5 ta  N . o r                                                   S   /    d     
COlE  \ K                          .  /         '      K d                                                     LOME
D' I  0   R                '        Gawempe g                 '                  ¾n d. /
D'IVOIRE-h                                      F               r.g,o_ -  
i                                 'AbFmbol    rJ/   \   \  + <  -- * } r- --~  t    --   t FF
%;_~ono 5 _  I''                                  ,oous
J   \lWench,  J           i  )5Atebubo                  GKtoe, A j
[  Br on g    /AbSa/fa   ,R e gic0      ;i >F~Dpp
.Ef' ,i \ / X  -                                                               GHA s,ken
nAAS./n4JCr ,_tt  ,           Cl  ~ _)siro\
7- /    a lm          /' -           ~            Msn°         \                                  uoCal
/~~~~~ \                               iG eoj                      [As  feh~     g            o   2O/
XWi~~~~~~~~~~~~AE SECTOR@
A  -   i Bawd:t1- . _t~~JSCOeA              Mprees                                 Acr
- Bibimeni -v   os< Ana,enaere       .                                                             1  ,.C t
Ench,  Aenk,eng,e               \  ,          .FS         Ad  Wnb
.               X~~~~ ~~orkac   \, -.       'Iaipend
C >.5jgjtASSCNx                        Bepe 4,4~>P  .0 ;
Esiam  ~~~-   8'_  _>  w ~GHANA
a                                                ~~~~~~~~~~WATER SECTOR'
REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT TOWNS
POADR
*    reTn`ie CAPTAL
REGION E4UN,AIIIs
_ -2-- &y'=. -v .........................IT                                                                  MN  B J,0T   B Jee
AOEA ,A   60    0



