Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CC,da         O-'e3- 
Report No. 7598-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REFABILITATION PROJECT
MAY 18, 1989
Infrastructure Oper&tions Division
Country Department IV
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipiets only In the peronanea of
their official duffes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed whout World Bank authorizton.



CURRENCY EQUI'ALENTS
(at appraisal - December 1988)
Currency Unit   -    Cedi (0)
US$1.00         D    0228 (Official Rate)
US$1.00         -    0330 (Free Market Rate) a/
¢l million           US$4386
01 million      .    US$3030 (Free Market Rate) at
SDR 1.00        a    US$1.30014
(The US$/SDR exchange rate used in this
report is that of April 30, 1989)
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter (mm)           =  0.039 inches (in)
1 meter (m)                 =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)              =  10,000 square meters (m2) or 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2)   =  0.386 square miles (mi2)
1 liter (1)                 =  0.22 Imperial gallons (gal) or 0.264 US gallons
1 liter per capita          =  0.22 Imperial gallons (gal) or 0.264 US gallons
per day (lcd)                per capita per day
1 cubic meter (m3)          =  1,000 liters or 220 Imperial gallons or 264 US gallons
1 million gallons per       8  4,500 cubic meters (m3) per day
day (mgd) (imperial measure)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB        African Development Bank
ATMA        Accra-Tema Metropolitan Area
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
ECG         Electricity Corporation of Ghana
GLSS        Ghana Living Standards Survey
GNP         Gross National Product
GOG         Government of the Republic of Ghana
GWSC        Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
IDA         International Development Association
KfW         Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
ODA         Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PCMU        Project and Construction Management Unit
PNDC        Provisional National Defense Council
VRA         Volta River Authority
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
a/ Foreign exchange bureau selling rate.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY    .................                         .....         I - lii
I. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUNDC            .....................                      I
II. WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR .................... *es*......                 1
A. Water Resources.............. ............................                     1
B. Sector Overview..........................................                      2
C. Sector and Institutional Organization....................                      2
D. Water Supply Facilities and Levels of Service ............                     4
E. Sar,itation Facilities and Levels of Service.............                      6
F. Operations and Maintenance ..............................                      6
G. Manpower and Training ....................................                     7
H. The Bank's Involvement in the Water Supply
and Sanitation Sector....................................                     8
Is Sectoral Strtegr......................                                         9
III. THE PROJECT ..................................                                    10
A. Project Objectives....9...................................                    10
B. Project Description......................................                     10
C. inspection and Maintenance of Dams.......................                     11
D. Environmental Aspects ............................. *......                   12
E. Project Costs and Financing..............................                     12
F. Project Preparation and Implementation...................                     13
G. Procement.... .                                                               14
H. Disb semnt..........................                                          16
I. Projett Monitoring and Reporting.........................                     17
IV. GWSC    '         I       N       A        NS................... ....  *.**.     17
A.  Past Financial Performance..............................                     17
B.  Tariffs .................................................                    18
C.  Billing and Collection .................................                     18
D.  Recapitalization Program and Financing Plan.............                     19
E.  Clearinghouse Arrangement ..............................                     20
F.  Accounts and Audit............................ . .... o..*                   20
G.  Future Financial Performance............................                     20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanice
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION ........................................          21
B.  Poverty Impact and Affordability ........................         22
C.  Economic Rate of Return .................................         22
D.  Project Risks ..........................................          23
VI. AGIiEEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ...............................        23
A. Agreements ................................................... 23
B.  Conditions of Credit Effectiveness ......................         24
C. Recommendation ................................................. 24
ANNEXES
2-1   GWSC Organization Chart
2-2   GWSC Manpower Improvement Program Action Plan
2-3   Manpower and Training
2-4   The Bank's Involvement in the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
3-1   Project Description
3-2   Project Cost Summary
3-3   Project Financing
3-4   GWSC's Project and Construction Management Unit
3-5   Implementation Schedule
3-6   Project Disbursement Profile
3-7   Monitoring Indicators
4-1   Current GWSC Tariffs
4-2   Financial Projections
4-3   Assumptions for GWSC Financial Projections
5-1   Economic Evaluation
6-1   Documents Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD No. 21198
May 1989



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers                 The Republic of Ghana
Beneficiary:              The Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation (GWSC)
Implementing Agency:      GWSC
Amounts                   SDR 19.3 million (US$25 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlendina Terms:          SDR 13.0 million (US$16.9 million equivalent)
would be onlent for 20 years, including a five-
year grpze period at the prevailing Bank interest
rate. GWSC would bear the foreign exchange risk.
SDR 6.3 million (US$8.1 million) would be passed
to GWSC as equity to finance technical assistance
and training.
Proiect Description:      The project would be implemented over seven years
and would include institutional development as
well as rehabilitation and high priority expansion
of existing water supply systems. The project
would continue the institutional strengthening of
GWSC primarily through technical assistance, staff
recruitment, a staff redeployment program and a
training component which would supplement a
proposed ODA-financed training program. A series
of physical components are proposed in support of
GWSC's activities in the sector, including
improvement of workshops, stores, training schools
and the provision of staff housing as an incentive
for the recruitment and retention of key staff.
Vehicles and essential items of equipment, tools,
plant and materials would also be provided.
Physical components of the project comprise
replacement of equipment, rehabilitation and
limited expansion of 37 of the larger of GWSC's
208 water supply systems, where the objective
would be to restore each of the works to its
original design capacity, and expansion of 31 of
the systems primarily to provide water to densely
populated areas which at present have no supply.
Water 7esources studies and implementation of
programs to reduce unaccounted-for water are
closely associated with these works. A national
tariff study and the revaluation of GWSC's fixed
assets are included in the project.



- ii -
Proiect Benefits and      Inadeq'-te public water supply constitutes a
Rlskss                    serious risk to the health and welfare of the
people, particularly to the poor who are unable to
afford alternative means of obtaining safe water.
Watarborne diseases are r.t present widespread and
endemic. Water shortages also constitute a
serious constraint to economic development. By
rehabilitating existing plant and equipment and
improving operational efficiency, the proposed
project will improve water supply in many areas
throughout the country. Institutional
strengthening will enhance GWSC's ability to
finance and implement needed investments as well
as to properly oper&te and maintain the
rehabilitated systems. The project's malor risks
relate to GWSC's ability to generate sufficient
internal cash flow to contribute the required
counterpart funds and the capability of GWSC to
satisfactorily implement a project of .his size.
Project components to reduce the level of non-
revenue producing water, improve financial
management at the regional level and substantially
strengthen GWSC's Project and Construction
Management Unit effectively mitigate these risks.
Economic Rate of Return: The estimated overall ERR is approximately 15X.
Mans                      IBRD No. 21198



-iii-
Estimated Proiect Costs a/       Local     Foreign       Total
---------USS Million--------
Replacement of Plant and
Equipment                        0.9         4.1         5.0
Rehabilitation and
Completion of Systems            6.9       16.2         23.1
Expansion of Systems              7.8        16.4        24.2
Buildings                         4.3        3.0          7.3
Essential Equipment
and Materials                    0.7        7.9          8.6
Engineering, Studies and
Technical Assistance             3.4       10.4         13.8
Staff Redeployment                4.0        -            4.0
Total Base Costs             28.0       58.0         86.0
Physical Contingencies            4.1        9.8         13.9
Price Contingencies               7.8       17.3         25.1
Total Project Costs          39.9       85.1        125.0
Financinx Plan
GWSC                             18.8          -         18.8
Austria                           2.7        16.8        19.5
ODA (UR)                           -        14.6         14.6
IDA                               4.6       20.4         25.0
Other Dorors                     13.8       33.3         47.1
Total                        39.9       85.1        125.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year:      FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97
---------------- US$ Million -----------------
Annual                 1.0   3.3   5.2   4.8   5.2   2.8   2.0   0.7
Cumulative             1.0   4.3   9.5  14.3  19.5  22.3  24.3  25.0
a/ Excluding customs duties and taxes, from which GWSC is exempt.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODU',TION AND BACKGROUND
1.01      The economic crisis of the late 1970s and early 19809 severely
constrained the Government's ability to adequately maintain essential
services including roads, railways, telecommunications, water supply and
electric power. During this period, water supply systems rapidly
deteriorated due to prolonged neglect and an almost entire absence of
maintenance.  Essential commo0itiEz, such as fuel, lubricants and spare
parts were in short supply resulting in failure of vital components of some
of the water treatment and transmission systems. In some areas, entire
systems were rendered inoperable catAsing complete failure of piped water
supplies to smaller towns and villages, and severe reduction of supplies to
larger conurbations. Sharp increases in urban population levels continued,
thus widening the substantial gap between water supply and demand. Revenue
collection in the water supply sector fell to a fraction of its previous
level. A major factor in the serious decline in the performance of public
utilities and government agencies in all sectors, including water supply.
was the extensive migration of skilled professionals to neighboring
countries in search of better career opportunities.
1.02      With the recent marked improvements in the national economy, the
Government has made serious efforts to improve essential services, and
major projects are being implemented in the transportation,
telecommunications and electric power sectors. In the water sector,
maintenance levels have been improved and, to some extent, the rapid
deterioration of water supply facilities has been checked. However, many
of the systems are old and a large rehabilitation program is urgently
needed to replace worn components and restore the systems to their former
capacity and to an acceptable level of reliability. Simultaneous efforts
are urgently needed to further strengthen the sector institution, the Ghana
Water and Sewerage Co.poration (GWSC), and to ensure its financial
viability. Achievement of these objectives will require many years of
sustained effort. In this context, the Government has requested IDA
support.
II. WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
A. Water Resources
2.01      The climate in Ghana is tropical with a wide distribution of
rainfall, which is strongly influenced by the southwest monsoon. The mean
annual rainfall varies from 2000 mm in the southwest coastal area to about
850 mm in the east coastal area (Accra) and 1000 mm in the north. Most of
the land area of about 238,000 km2 lies below an altitude of 300 m and the
principal geographical feature is Volta Lake, with an area of some
8,500 km2. The lake provides an important source of water, hydropower and



-2-
a means of transportation.  Throughout the rest of the country water
resources are adequate, although unevenly distributed.  They are abundant
along the Volta River, but limited in the north and southeast, where th.e
annual rainfall is considerably less.  A study in the 1970s indicated that
potentially available surface water resources exceed identifiable needs.
Although hydrological data are available, there is no clear indication of
the availability of water under drought conditions and severe shortages
were experienced during the drought of 1983/84.
2.02      Although groundwater hydrogeological data are available, they
are not well collated or analyzed. General observations show that
groundwater yields are low in most areas. This is primarily because of the
low permeability of the crystalline rock underlying more than half of the
area of the country. There is, however, some potential for development of
shallow wells to serve individual properties or even small communities, but
yields are generally too low for urban use. Groundwater is generally of an
acceptable qi,ality requiring only disinfection to render it suitable for
potable use.
2.03      RiLer water sources are polluted and require full treatment
processes normally associated w-ith surface water in both developing and
industrialized countries. Most, but not all, of the river pollution is
from natural causes (erosion and high turbidity due to heavy rains, etc).
More harmful pollution is caused bDy discharge of domestic and industrial
(agriculture and mining) wastes. There is a high incidence of waterborne
diseases, including dysentery, typhoid, cholera, schistosomiasis and guinea
worm.
B. Sector Overview
2.04      As in many developing countries, development of the water supply
and sanitation sector in Ghana is constrained by lack of financial
resources. In recent years, most of the systems have seriously
deteriorated resulting in low levels of reliability and frequent
interruptions in supply. It is reported that about one-third of a total of
208 piped systems have ceased to function. These conditions are to some
extent related to financial difficulties of the country as a whole (pa a
1.01). Over the past decade, development budget allocations for water
supply have averaged about 5Z of the total national develeo.ment budget.
However, until recently actual expenditures have been sub,'tantially less
than budget allocations. The general shortage of financial resources,
affecting both foreign exchange and local funds has been one of the primary
causes for both deterioration of the present systems and the huge backlog
in development of capital works in both water supply and sanitation. The
shortage of local financing was made more acute because of the Government
of Ghana's (GOG's) reluctance in the past to approve adequate tariff
increases. This position has improved recently (para 4.03) with GOG's
delegation of authority to GWSC to increase tariffs by a maximum of 25X per
year.
C. Sector and Institutional Organization
2.05      The Republic of Ghana is administered through ten regions which
are divided into 110 districts, each administered by a district council.



The ten regions and the regional capital towns (Map IBRD No. 21198) are as
follows:
Regions              Regional Capitals
Upper Eaist          Bolgatanga
Upper West           Wa
Northern             Tamale
Brong Ahafo           Sunyani
Volta                Ho
Eastern              Koforidua
Central              Cape Coast
Western               Sekondi-Takoradi
Ashanti              Kumasi
Greater Accra        Accra
2.06      Development of the water supply sector began in 1928 with a
piped system in Cape Coast (the former national capital) followed by Accra
and other regional capitals. At that time, the Public Works Department
(PWD), was responsible for both urban and rural water supply and in 1958
the Water Supply Division of PWD, with its headquarters located in Kumasi,
became a separate entity, responsible to the Ministry of Works and Housing
(MOWH). Subsequently, the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation (GWSC) was
established (Ghana Water and Sewerage Act, 1965) as a wholly owned
Govarnment Corporation, operating under the direction of MOWH. GWSC is
responsible for the provision, distribution and conservation of water
throughout the country, for public, domestic, commercial and industrial
use. GWSC's responsibilities also extend to the sewerage subsector where
it is responsible for the provision and operation of waterborne sewerage
systems. Individual sanitation systems (septic tanks, pit latrines, etc.)
are a responsibility of local authorities. GWSC is authorized to collect
charges for water and waterborne sewerage services in accoriance with
tariffs approved by GOG.
2.07      GWSC, which operates under the general direction of the Ministry
of Works and Housing, is governed by a Board of Directors comprising a
Chairman, the Managing Director of GWSC and ten members appointed by GOG
and selected from a broad spectrum of academic and other professionals with
interest in, and knowledge of, the sector. Eight members of the present
Board, appointed in January 1988, are engineers by profession; the
remaining four members include a university professor, an accountant, a
medical doctor and a sociologist. In addition to the head office in Accra,
there are regional headquarters in each of the ten regional capitals. The
head office has overall responsibility for all of GWSC's functions,
although the regional offices have a certain degree of independence,
particularly in connection with operation and maintenance of water and
sewerage services. Supporting services are provided by two central
workshops located in Tema and Kumasi, as well as regional and district
workshops. Central stores, from which equipment and materials are
trrtnsported to each of ten regional stores, are located in Tema, Kumasi,
Takoradi, Ho and Tamale.
2.08      Under GWSC's current organizational structure (Annex 2-1), the
following senior officers report directly to the Managing Director:
Corporate Planner, Chief Auditor, Legal Officer and the two Deputy Managing



- 4 -
Directors (DMDs) responsible for Operations and Finance and Administration.
The DMD Operations, who is responsible for all operational and maintenance
aspects of the Corporation's work, is supported by three Directors at
headquarters, who head Departments of Planning and Devalopment, Operations
and Maintenance and Rural Water Development, and by ten Regional Directors.
The DMD responsible for Finance and Administration is supported by three
Directors heading Departments of Finance, Administration and Commerce.
Several studies of GWSC's organizational structure have been conducted
since its formation in 1965. The present organizational structure is
generally satisfactory, although there is a need to effect greater
delegation of authority and responsiDilities to the regions. In this
connection, GWSC has agreed to strengthen regional staffing and implement a
decentralization plan to be formulated under a twinning arrangement with
Thames Water International (UK).
2.09      GWSC's organizational structure needs to be modified to better
equip the Corporation to effectively implement and supervise its investment
program (para 3.11). A further area in which modifications of the
organizational structure would improve operational efficiency relates to
the responsibilities of the Managing Directcr. In addition to carrying out
the policies of the Board in administering the Corporation, planning and
programming corporate activiti2s, etc., the Managing Director is also
required to maintain close working relationships with various departments
and agenciea of the Government. GWSC is a large and complex organization,
which generates a substantial burden at higher management levels. In order
to be able to allocate sufficient of his time and energy to liaise with
other officials, it is important that adequate and suitable senior staff
are provided to support the Managing Director and to relieve him of a large
part of the day-to-day operational tasks. In this connection, GWSC is
reviewing alternative options and has agreed to implement measures designed
to achieve this objective.
2.10      Ir. the late 19709 and early 1980s, the operational efficiency of
GWSC declined to an unprecedented level (para 1.01) and, in response to
GOG's request for assistance to restore GWSC's effectiveness, IDA financing
was provided under the Water Supply Technical Assistance and Rehatilitation
Project, Credit 1342-GH. Strengthening GWSC's managerial capabilities and
improving its operating and financial performance, which were among the
high I--iority objectives of this project, were addressed through an
organiation and management study and provision of technical assistance in
the form of providing the full time services of five expatriate higher
level staff over a three-year period. Both of these project components
have now been completed and much of GWSC's former capability as a national
water supply entity has been restored. However, further institutional
strengthening is required. In addition to the issues of regionalization
(para 2.08) and staff support at the Managing Director's level (para 2.09),
shortages of qualified zzaff manpower are a major constraint to GWSC's
development (para; 2.23-24).
D. Water Supply Facilities and Levels of Service
2.11      The nat_.onal population of 12.2 million (1984 census) is divided
between 3.9 million urban (32Z) and 8.3 million rural (68Z) dwellers.   The
census defines urban towns as localities with at least 5,000 inhabitants,



- 5 -
of which there are 189, with an annual population growth rate of 3.42. The
annual growth rate of the rura' population is 2.22.  The overall national
population growth rate between 1970 and 1984 was 2.62.
2.12      The number of people receiving piped water is based on
population data from the 1984 census which assumes that the whole of the
population in each area served by a piped system receives water. Based on
this assumption, 3.6 million urban and 1.7 million rural dwellers receive
piped water. and a further 2.1 millicn rural dwellers are served by wells
equipped with hand pumps. In total, 7.4 million people (602 of the total
population) reportedly receive water of an acceptable quality.
2.13      However, preliminary results from the Ghana Living Standards
;         Survey (GLSS) indicate that less than 402 of the population have access to
public water systems.  The apparent discrepancy is primarily accounted for
in that many of the GWSC systems operate below design capacity. In
addition, even in areas where piped water is available, not all of the
people use the system; those who are not connected to the system may obtain
water from those who have registered (legal) piped connections or from
other sources including illegal connections or private wells.
2.14      The total production capacity of GWSC's piped water systems is
about 450,000 m3 per day, which is quite low for a total estimated
population served of 5.3 million. About 702 of the installed capacity is
in the larger u-ban systems of Accra-Tema, Kumasi, and Sekondi-Takoradi and
serves about 2.3 million people or 43? of the total populaticn receiving
piped water.
2.15      Despite the apparently high level of service in urban areas, a
significant portion of the served population have pooL access to the
systems and most carry water over long distances or purchase it from
vendors. In addition, because of poor maintenance, deterioration of
equipment through age, shortage of replacement parts and electric power
cuts, a large proportion of the water systems are extremely unreliable and
many operate at only a fraction of their rated output. Water quality ZAso
suffers from the effects of these deficiencies with serious healtb
implications.
2.16      In addition to the piped water supply systems which mainly serve
urban and semi-urban areas, GWSC is responsible for the operation and
maintenance of some 6,000 drilled wells fitted with handpumps serving rural
communities. This highly centralized approach is inefficient and
contributes to GWSC's financial difficulties. Both 3OG and GWSC
acknowledge the need tc extricate GWSC from its current role in operating
and maintaining rural water supply schemes. Increased community
participation, including village level operation and maintenance and local
contribution to the capital cost of improved water supply and sanitation
facilities, is essential if there is to be a significant increase in the
level of access by rural dwellers to safe water supplies. This will
involve a major restructuring of the rural water supply sub-sector, the
magnitude of which is beyond the scope of this project. It will, however,
be addressed within the framework of a proposed rural water supply project
which is currently in reserve status in the IDA five-year lending program.



E. Sanitation Facilities and Levels of Service
2.17      Development of sanitation services lags far behind water supply
services even in the more densely populated urban areas. There are only
three public waterborne sewerage systems, which serve parts of Accra, Tera
and Akosombo. The Accra system, constructed and operated by GWSC is
underutilized, primarily because the high cost of connecting to the system
has deterred property owners from doing so. The Tema sewerage system,
operated by the Tema Development Corporation, serves a larger and more
diverse area and is reasonably satisfactory although maintenance of the
system, particularly the pumping equipment, is inadequate. The Akosombo
sewerage system is opera ed by the Volta River Authority (VRA). In Accra,
the marine outfall has failed and the discharge of sewage onto the beach is
a source of serious pollution. In addition to the urban systems there are
some 15 waterborne systems serving institutions; these are reportedly
poorly maintained and many of the treatment facilittes are inoperable. The
remainder of the population generally relies on septic tanks and pit
latrines or, in parts of the larger urban centers, on night soil disposal
by bucket latrines. The latter systems, which are the responsibility of
local councils are poorly managed and ineffectively operated due to
difficulties in recruitment of labor and in operation and maintenance of
vehicles.
2.18      In rural areas, data are generally insufficient to provide an
overall impression of waste disposal practices. Rough estimates indicate
that perhaps 10 of dwellings utilize basic pit latrines and a smaller
percentage use public latrines, but by far the largest number resort to
indiscriminate methods of disposal.
2.19      Few records are available to describe the extent of usage of the
various sewerage/sanitation systems. However, it is estimated that about
402 of the urban population and 15? of the rural population are served by
some form of sewage disposal system.
F.  Operations and Maintenance
2.2r      GWSC opera.es and maintains some 208 piped water supply systems,
some 6,000 handpumps installed on wells in rural areas, and the waterborne
sewerage system for Accra. During the past decade, GWSC has faced
increasing difficulties in maintaining these systems due to shortages of
trained manpower, insufficient local funds and foreign exchange to purchase
replacement parts, fuel, lubricants, etc., as well as a complete absence of
organized preventive maintenance programs.  Furthermore, some of the
mechanical, electrical and process plant are old and replacement is long
overdue.
2.21      Thirty-seven water supply systems would be rehabilitated under
the proposed project. Obsolete mechanical, electrical and treatment process
units would be replaced and stocks of essential replacement parts would be
replenished (para 3.02). Emphasis would continue to be placed on improving
operation and maintenance procedures and programs and, under the technical
assistance component of the project, the regions would receive assistaice
to formulate and implement preventive maintenance programs. Recruitment
and retraining programs within GWSC would focus on the need for additional



- 7 -
skilled operation and maintenance staff. Expenditure on new works and
expansion of facilities would be limited by GWSC to absolutely essential
areas pending the establishment of sustainable, effective operation and
maintenance procedures and completion of the proposed rehabilitation
program. It has been agreed that GWSC will each year review with IDA its
proposed three-year investment program and consult with IDA prior to
contracting any additional long-term debt in excess of US$5 million
equivalent (para 6.01(b)(i)).
2.22      In the absence of comprehensive consumer metering, estimation of
levels of non-revenue producing water is not possible. Selective extension
of metering and other measures to identify and reduce levels of non-revenue
producing water would be implemented under the project (para 3.02). These
measures, including surveys of consumer connections, leakage detection
surveys and meter testing and repair, would be continued as part of GWSC's
future maintenance program.
G. Manpower and TraininR
2.23      GWSC has a total s.Aff of about 6,300 against a recommended
establishment of about 4,500. There are far too many unskilled and semi-
skilled staff and too few competent, qualified personnel to fill key
technical and professional positions in middle management and supervisory
levels. Of the 6,400 staff, only about 650 are classified by GWSC as
management, technical professionals, administrative professionals and
supervisory personnel.
2.24      There is, therefore, an urgent need for GWSC to recruit some 50
engineers, 30 professional administrative staff (accountants, auditors,
trainers and administrators) and 20 staff in other professions (economists,
lawyers, procurement specialists, stores managers, etc.). An action plan
to address this imbalance (Annex 2-2) would provide for: recruitment
incentives for professional staff; retrenchment of 1,500 employees over a
three-year period; and retraining of some of the skilled and semi-skilled
staff. GWSC has agreed to implement such an action plan (para
6.01(b)(ii)), and implementation of the first phase of the program will be
a condition of credit effectiveness (para 6.02(a)).
2.25      Training was an integral part of GWSC's operations from its
formation in the 1960s until the early 1980s. However, as with several
other aspects of GWSC's operations, training activities have suffered in
recent years as a result of inadequate funding and a loss of a large part
of GWSC's higher level staff. Therefore, since the early 19809, GWSC's
training activities tended to be erratic, but training continued with an
average of about 100 staff attending training each year. A training report
prepared by consultants under Credit 1342-GH takes stock of the training
situation in GWSC and recommends an action program which forms a 'basis for
the training component under the proposed project (Annex 2-3).
2.26      In-house training mainly for water works operators, attendants
and district managers, is provided at GWSC's training schools at Owabi and
Weija; however, their poor state of repair does not permit optimum use of
these facilities, and their activities are, therefore, limited. Local
training institutions, primarily the Management Development and



Productivity Institute (MDPI) ar.d the Ghana Institute of Management and
Public Administrators (GIMPA), are becoming more active in trairing GWSC's
staff in various areas of management, but so far, no attempt has been made
to tailor this training to GWSC's specific requirements. Overseas
training, often not directly relevant to GWSC's operations, is programmed
mainly on the basis of availability of external grant financing.
2.27      The proposed project will emphasize increased training at the
management level, while continuing with the present training courses at
other levels, but with improved quality and increased post-training
evaluation activities. The training arrangement between GWSC and Thames
Water International (UK) and its possible extension, as well as the
technical assistance through the Project Construction and Management Unit
(para 3.11) would provide valuable opportunities for on-the-job training of
GWSC counterparts. In-house training would be reactivated through (i)
rehabilitation and some expansiou of GWSC's training schools under the
project and (ii) technical assistance for tra  'tng needs assessment and
development of training resources under ODA financing. In-country and
overseas training would be reviewed to emphasize relevance to GWSC's needs.
Improvement in quality of GWSC's training processes would be achieved under
the project through the assistdnce of a training specialist for a period of
24 man-months.
H. The Bank's Involvement in the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
2.28      The Bank Group has financed three water supply and sewerage
projects in Ghana (Annex 2-4). Credits 160-GH and 499-GH, both of which
were directed to the Accra-Tema Metropolitan Area (ATMA), and Credit 1342-
GH, a technical assistance and rehabilitation project. The first project
(US$3.5 million credit in 1969) assisted in expanding the water supply
distribution network in ATMA and constructing a sewerage system in central
Accra. The project was successfully completed in 1973, although the impact
of the sewerage component was materially reduced by a reluctance of
potential beneficiaries to connect to the system.
2.29      The second project (Credit 499-GH for US$10.4 million in 1974)
was financed in parallel with the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). The project was intended
to increase the installed capacity of the ATMA water system to meet
existing and future needs for potable water for some 800,000 people in the
Accra-Tema metropolis and to extend water supply to some 170,000 people
living in adjacent rural areas. The IDA-financed component was completed
in 1980 and the entire project was completed in mid-1985. Although parts
of the distribution system extensions were not constructed because of a
lack of local funds and materials 1/, the basic physical objective was met,
thereby providing the water resource capacity to meet the needs of the
Accra-Tema consumers. The estimated completion cost of US$51.5 million was
16Z above the appraisal estimate of US$44.7 million.
1/ These works are now being financed under the AfDB/Government of Italy-
assisted ATMA Rehabilitation Project.



- 9 -
2.30      The third project, financed by Credit 1342-GH for US$13.0
million in 1983, was designed with the objective of strengthening the
management of GWSC and rehabilitating one of the two major transmission
pipelines supplying the Accra-Tema area. Parallel financing for pipeline
rehabilitation was provided by the Government of Italy. The institution
building objectives were not fully achieved because of the effects of the
sharp decline in Ghana's economy at that time and the consequent exodus of
many of GWSC's senior staff. However, rehabilitation of essential
components of the Accra-Tema water system was successful and the project
has now been substantially completed with the exception of an ongoing
twinning contract which will continue through mid-1990.
I. Sectoral Strategy
2.31      GOG has been carrying out one of the most successful structural
adjustment programs in Africa since April 1983, attaining about 5.5 per
cent net GDP growth per annum. Having set the macroeconomic policy
framework firmly on a growth path, GOG is now embarking on fine tuning the
przogram by establishing a policy framework and objectives for specific
sectors. Diversification of productive sectors, particularly the export
indat^ries, is one of the major objectives in the medium and long term.
The other major objective is to address the social dimensions of the
program to follow up the short-ternm orientation under the ongoing Program
of Action to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment (PAMSCAD). The Bank
has recently assisted GOG in implementing major reforms in the health and
education sectors (Credits 1653-GH and 1744-GH of 1986, respectively). It
is in this context that the proposed project has been formulated.
2.32      One of the elements of GOG's economic recovery program is to
reform public enterprises by increasing their autonomy with the objective
of creating effectively managed, financially viable institutions. In the
case of the water sector, thle strategy of GWSC is its development to a
level whereby it can provide access to reliable supplies of water of
acceptable quality and at affordable prices for both urban and rural
consumers. GWSC is triving to reach these goals, and on its part, GOG is
now studying proposals for the increased autonomy of GWSC. Simultaneously,
practical nationwide programs for improvement of sanitation services would
have high priority, both waterborne sanitation services, which are operated
by GWSC, and individual on-site sanitation systems which are the
responsibility of local authorities.
2.33      A Five-Year Rehabilitation and Development Plan for the sector,
prepared by GWSC identifies its immediate sector objectives ast the
provision of adequate and reliable water supplies in urban centers through
rehabilitation of existing systems; expansion of facilities to meet urgent
demands in some areas of extreme need; completion of all partially
implemented projects; improved operation and maintenance; and continued
efforts to improve water and sanitation services in rural areas. This
project, together with an AfDB/Government of Italy-assisted project for
ATHA and a CIDA-assisted rehabilitation project in the Northern and Upper
Regions, which will be implemented in parallel, constitute the majority of
the medium-term investment program for GWSC.



- 10 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Obiectives
3.01      The project would continue to focus on similar objectives as the
previous projects by assisting the Government to strengthen the main water
and sewertge sector entity, GWSC, to enable it to more effectively
administer the sector. In specific terms, the project would aim tot (i)
strengthen the managerial, financial and technical capabilities of GWSC
both at headquarters and in the regions to enable it to effectively plan
and implement a meaningful development program; (ii) improve GWSC's
operating and maintenance ability; and (iii) improve GWSC's financial
performance so that it may function as a viable institution. The project
would also assist GWSC tot (i) reduce the levels of non-revenue earning
water; (ii) increase the output of existing water systems by replacement of
plant and equipment and by general system rehabilitation; and ('ii) provide
for the expansion of some systems and completion of others to further
increase water availability.
B. Proiect Description
3.02      The project is described in Annex 3-1 and detailed project
components are listed in Annex 3-2. Locations of the principal physical
components of the project are shown in Map IBRD No. 21198. The project may
be divided into seven major items: (i) institutional strengthening through
technical assistance, staff recruitment, staff redeployment and training;
(ii) emergency replacement of mechanical, electrical and water treatment
plant and equipment; (iii) rehabilitation and completion of water supply
systems; (iv) expansion of water supply systems to meet urgent needs; (v)
improvement of GWSC's workshops, stores and training centers and provision
of staff housing; (vi) supply of essential equipment and materials; and
(vii) technical studies. The composition of each of these components is
summarized as follows:
(i)  Institutional development would give emphasis to completion of
the decentralization of GWSC, with assistance provided under the
ongoing twinning arrangement (para 2.08), a Manpower Improvement
Program which would include recruitment of key professional
staff and retztncbment of about 1,500 redundant employees (para
2.24), and would involve management and technical training and
increased staff support to the Managing Director.
(ii)  Emergency replacements would include replacement of mechanical,
electrical and water treatment plant anC equipment which has
deteriorated to a point beyond economic repair.
(iii)  Rehabilitation and completion of 37 water supply systems include
a broad spectrum of works designed to restore production levels
to those for which the systems were originally designed and, in
some cases, to complete partially constructed systems on which
work was suspended because of lack of funds. Components of



- 11 -
these works include river intakes, wells, transmission,
treatment and distribution systems.
(iv) Limited exDansion of 31 water supply systems mainly comprises
limited distribution system expansion in densely populated urban
areas where there are no piped supplies of water and expansion
of certain water production facilities to meet extreme needs.
(v) Improvement of workshops, stores and training centers and
provision of staff housing would include structural improvements
and provision of equipment for workshops and stores at
headquarters and in the regions and for the two GWSC training
schools; the component also includes staff housing as an
incentive for recruitment and retention of key staff.
(vi) Supply of essential equipment and materials would include
vehicles; replacement parts for existing plant and equipment; a
one-year supply of chemicals; water meters; and laboratory
equipment.
(vii) Technical studies are closely related to the components listed
above, as follows:
o   hydrologic studies - to identify optimal raw water sources in 17
of the 37 systems which are to be rehabilitated or expanded
under the project;
o   Accra sewage disposal feasibility study - to identify the least
cost, environmentally acceptable method of providing for
disposal of wastes from the existing Accra sewerage system;
o   engineering design for Tamale expansion - to prepare engineering
design for expansion of the water supply system at Tamale, the
capital of the Northern Region. This expansion would be
financed under a follow-on project;
o   reduction of unaccounted-for water - programs to institute
leakage survey systems and to train GWSC teams in appropriate
methods and procedures;
o   tariff study - to identify an appropriate tariff structure and
levels, having regard for GWSC's financial requirements and
consumers' ability to pay; and
o   revaluation of fixed assets - to estimate replacement value and
the remaining useful life of GWSC's fixed assets.
C.   Inspection and Maintenance of Dams
3.03      With the objective of improving the water supply to Cape Coast,
a hydrological study of the Kakum River would be implemented under the
project to determine the feasibility of increasing the yield of the
impounding reservoir by raising the Brimsu dam. The environmental impact
of this approach would also be addressed at the feasibility study stage.



- 12 -
If the Brimsu dam is to be raised, then a panel of experts would be
required to review the design of such works. GWSC has agreed to employ
such a panel of experts, acceptable to IDA, to assess the environmental
impact and review the concept of the dam and its associated structures and
the adequacy of their design (para 6.01(b)(iii)).
3.04      There are a number of existing dams in the project area which
provide water to areas in which works are to be rehabilitated or expanded
under the project. Such dams are located at Kumasi (the Owabi and Barikese
impounding reservoirs), Kwanyaku, Bolgatanga, Mampong, Axim, Sekondi-
Takoradi and Cape Coast. Regular inspection and maintenance of some of
these dams have not been carried out in recent years due to GWSC's lack of
resources, both in manpower and finance. With resources made available
under the project, GWSC now proposes to supplement the inspection and
maintenance of dams under its control. GWSC has agreed to cause the dams
listed above, and such other dams which GWSC may designate, to be
periodically inspected in accordance with sound engineering practice, and
under arrangements acceptable to IDA, in order to determine whether there
are any deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in the quality
and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation of the same, which may
endanger their safety. To this end, GWSC shall propose to IDA, by January
1, 1992, appropriate arrangements for review (para 6.01(b)(iv)).
D.   En;ironmental Aspects
3.05      The project would not have an adverse impact on the environment.
To the contrary, improved reliability, quality and coverage of water supply
systems would raise living standards, particularly for the poor. Urban
drainage is adequate and would not be overloaded by restoration of the
water systems to their former capacities. The project does not involve
resettlement.
E.   Project Costs and Financing
3.06      The total project cost is estimated at US$125.0 million
equivalent, exclusive of customs duties and taxes, of which the foreign
exchange component is US$85.1 million (68Z of the total). The cost
estimates are based on February 1988 prices and exchange rates and include
physical and price contingencies. Physical contingencies are based on the
following: 1OZ for plant, equipment and buildings; 15Z for studies and
technical assistance; and 20Z for rehabilitation, completion and expansion
of water systems and related engineering. Price escalation has been
included as follows:
Year           Local      Foreign
1989            15.2        5.3
1990             9.1        5.3
1991             6.6        4.1
1992-1996        5.0        4.1
A total of about 310 man-months of technical assistance would be provided
under the project. Detailed cost estimates are presented at Annex 3-2.



- 13 -
3.07      An IDA Credit of US$25.0 million to GOG is proposed.  Part,
US$8.1 million, would be passed to GWSC as equity to finance technical
assistance and training in view of GWSC's already difficult financial
situation and the significant technical assistance component of the
project. The remainder would be onlent to GWSC for 20 years with five
years of grace, at the prevailing Bank interest rate. GWSC would bear the
foreign exchange risk. Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
GOG and GWSC will 1- a condition of credit effectiveness (para 6.02(b)).
3.08      The proposed credit would finance 10OZ of the cost of all
technical assistance, training, technical studies and engineering to be
provided within the project. The IDA credit would also finance the foreign
exchange costs of: one year's supply of chemicals for water treatment;
computers and laboratory equipment; building improvements at the Weija and
Owabi training schools (including two units of staff housing located at the
Weija school); and restoring inoperative water systems. A PPF (para 3.10)
has been granted to finance the foreign exchange costs of replacement of
certain mechanical, electrical and water treatment plant and equipment
under an Immediate Action Program.
3.09      It is projected that GWSC will meet 47Z of local costs (US$18.8
million equivalent) from internally generated funds.  About US$81.2 million
equivalent of co-financing is required to finance the foreign exchange
costs and part of the local costs of system rehabilitation, completion and
expansion; stores. workshops and staff housing; and equipment and
materials. The Governments of Austria and the United Kingdom have
expressed interest in co-financing approximately US$34.1 million of project
costs. Effectiveness of these co-financing agreements will be a condition
of credit effectiveness (para 6.02(c)). The Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund (Japan) and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France) are
also considering requests from the Government of Ghana to co-finance the
project. A project financing plan is presented at Annex 3-3.
F. Proiect Preparation and Implementation
3.10      The project was prepared by GWSC wi.h assistance of consultants
financed partly by GOG and partly under the ongoing IDA-assisted project
(Credit 1342-GH). Consultants have been appointed to prepare bid documents
for the most urgently required items of replacement plant and equipment.
These documents would be completed by mid-1989. A contract for the
preparation of final engineering design and bid documents for other
rehabilitation works is expected to be signed in late 1989. PPF advances
totalling US$500,000 will be used to begin implementation of an Immediate
Action Program of urgently needed works (para 3.02(ii), intended to restore
operating capacity to selected systems primarily by replacement of
mechanical and electrical equipment. The PPF will also meet the initial
costs of consultants for the engineering design of works associated with
the 37 water systems (para 3.02 (iii) and (iv)).
?. 1l     GWSC would implement the project with assistance from
consultants both in the detailed design stage and in supervision of
construction and installation of plant and equipment. GWSC has recently
reorganized its Planning and Development Department to substantially



- 14 -
strengthen the Project and Construction Hanagement Unit (PCMU) which is
responsible for implementing and supervising GWSC's investment program
(Annex 3-4). In discussions with GWSC, it was agreed that a Project
Management Consultant (PMC) would be appointed to provide a small group of
specialists who, together with counterparts from GWSC would form an
effective management team to advise on engineering, economic, financial and
management aspects of GWSC's investment program, to supervise and
coordinate project implementation and provide on-the-job training of GWSrC
counterpart staff. Project completion is scheduled for 1996 (Annex 3-5),
and the proposed credit closing date is June 30, 1997.
G. Procurement
3.12      All procurement under the project would be managed by the PCMU.
Co-financiers would provide parallel financing, and GWSC would follow the
applicable guidelines of the respective financing agency involved. The
major portion (US$19.1 million) of the IDA credit would finance
engineering, technical assistance, technical studies and training.
Consultant services for these components would be procured under World Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
3.13      Improvements to Weija and Owabi training schools comprise
several small contracts with an estimated total cost of US$2.1 million for
workshops. stores, dormitories, training rooms and staff housing. Such
contracts would not be of interest to foreign contractors not already
established in Ghana and would be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding, locally advertised, conducted in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate advertisement,
public bid opening, and award to the lowest responsive bidder on the basis
of criteria specified in the bid documents. Foreign contractors are not
precluded from participating. A contract for the supply of chemicals,
estimated cost US$3.6 million, would be procured under international
competitive bidding, in accordance with World Bank Guidelines.
3.14      Items of replacement plant and equipment (total estimated cost
US$1.8 million) and computers and laboratory equipment (US$0.6 million)
would be grouped together and procured under international competitive
bidding in accordance with World Bank Guidelines. Where this is not
possible, individual items costing not more than US$100,000 with an
aggregate not to exceed US$1.0 million could be procured on the basis of
international shopping by obtaining at least three priced quotations from
reputable suppliers.
3.15      A prior Bank review would be required for awards of all IDA-
financed contracts above US$0.1 million equivalent. Procurement
arrangements are shown on page 15.



- 15 -
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/ bi
(US$ million)
ICB      LCB      Other      N.A.    Total
Replacement Plant and           2.7 el              3.3 d/            6.0
Equipment (supply and          (0.7) el                               (0.7)
installation)
Rehabilitation, Completion      8.7                 9.8              18.6
and Expansion of Water         (0.7)                                 (0.7)
Systems (supply and
installation)
Rehabilitation, Completion    24.4                 31.1              55.6
and Expansion of Water
Systems (civil works)
Building Improvements                    10.1                        10.1
(workshops, stores,                      (0.4)                       (0.4)
training centers,
staff housing)
Vehicles                        4.0                                   4.0
Spares, Computers,              7.0                0.1                7.1
Communication and              (4.0'                                 (4.0)
Laboratory Equipment,
Tools, Chemicals and
Meters
Technical Studies                                  3.9                3.9
(Z.9)             (3.9)
Technical Assistance                               8.1                8.1
and Training                                       (8.1)             (8.1)
Engineering                                         7.1               7.1
(7.1)             (7.1)
Staff Redeployment                                           4.6 fl   4.6
TOTAL          46.9      10.1      63.5      4.6    125.0
lS.4)     (0.4)   (19.1)      _      (25.0)
a/ Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
bI Columns may not add due to rounding.
cl Co-financing for these items has not yet been committed (Annex 3-3).
di Includes amounts for items financed by bilateral donors and procured
under their own procedures.
e1 IDA financing covers only the foreign exchange cost of these categories.
fl Cost of staff redeployment to be financed by GWSC counterpart funds.



- 16 -
H. Disbursements
3.16           The proposed )A credit would be disbursed in seven and a
half years, the standard disbursement profile for Ghana (Annex 3-6) on the
following basis.
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
Category                   Amount         I to be Disbursed
(US$ million)      from IDA Credit
1.  Equipment and materials          4.8         1002 of foreign expenditures
(supply and installation)
2.  Civil and building works         0.4         10OZ of foreign expenditures
3.  Technical assistance,           16.8         1002 of expenditures
training, technical
studies and engineering
4.  Refunding of project             0.5         1002 of expenditures
preparation advance
5.  Unallocated                      2.5
Total   25.0
Disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1996. GWSC would bear
cost overruns including any extra costs associated with extension of the
implementation schedule. Two disbursement accounts will be opened. First,
a Special Account in foreign currency of US$1.0 million equivalent
(estimated to finance four months' eligible expenditures) will be
established in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
The Special Account would be used for disbursements against all eligible
expenditures and it will be replenishable on application by GWSC. Second,
as a condition of credit effectiveness, a Project Account in local currency
will be opened with an initial deposit of 050 million by GWSC (para
6.02(d)). This account will be used for local counterpart funds and it has
been agreed that the account will be replenished whenever the balance falls
below 020 million (para 6.01(b)(v)). Disbursements of the IDA credit would
be fully documented except those of less than US$20,000 equivalent which
may be disbursed against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Supporting
documents for the SOEs would be retained by GWSC for review during IDA
supervision missions. GWSC will establish separate accounts in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, to record all project
expenditures and to maintain records on commitments, reimbursements and the
status of project funds. Separate audit reports for the Special Account,
Project Account and SOEs will be submitted to IDA with GWSC's audited
financial statements for each fiscal year (para 4.09).



- 17 -
I. Project Monitoring and Reporting
3.17           The project would require a normal level of supervision for
the sector and region. Monitoring of institutional improvements would
present difficulties of quantification; however, more easily quantifiable
items, including levels of non-revenue producing water, financial targets,
progress in senior staff recruitment and the reduction of GWSC's manpower
(para 2.24) would be used as measures of GWSC's performance. Monitoring
indicators (Annex 3-7) and detailed reporting requirements were agreed
during credit negotiations. The PCMU would be responsible for preparing
quarterly progress reports for submission to GWSC management for onward
transmission to IDA and co-financiers. Arrangements for periodic review by
GOG, GWSC and IDA of all aspects of implementation including achievement of
agreed targets as well as annual review of GWSC's performance contract and
corporate plan have been agreed (para 6.01(b)(vi)).
IV. GWSC FINANCES
A. Past Financial Performance
4.01           Until 1986, GWSC remained heavily dependent on Government
subvention to meet a significant part of its recurrent expenditures.
Government subvention covered between 342 and 67Z of GWSC's operating
expenditures from 1977 to 1986, when GOG withdrew all recurrent subvention.
Since then, GWSC has met its operating costs without subvention, however,
at a level constrained by the availability of funds without regard to
operational needs, which is evidenced by the poor state of existing
infrastructure, plant and machinery. Government continues to provide GWSC
assistance for capital development.
GWSC's Financial Performance 1984-1987
1984      1985      1986       1987
--- Cedi million ----------
Sales (billion gallons)             16.4      19.1       18.2      17.8
Average Tariff (011000 gallons)    24.9        24.9     134.0     179.4
Revenues                             434        482      2266      3260
Operating Expenses                   664        990      1902      2569
Operating Income/(Loss)             (230)      (508)      364       691
Plus Government Subvention           326        326       201
Less Interest                          2          2       131       119
Plusl(Less) Prior Period
and Other Adjustments            12       (82)      (117)      (12)
Net Income/(Loss)               106      (266)       317       560
Operating Ratio (Z)                  153        205        84        79
Current Ratio                        1.1        0.8       1.3       1.5
Receivables (no. months' billings)  4.1         5.0       4.0       5.1
Debt/Equity Ratio                    0.1        2.3       1.3       1.1



- 18 -
B. Tariff s
4.02      GOG's objectives in the sector are to provide water of acceptable
quality and to provide adequate sanitation to the entire urban population
and to a major part of the rural population at tariffs which are affordable
and sufficient to:  (i) cover operation and maintenance costs; (ii) enible
GWSC to repay loans and capital charges accruing from new development
projects; and (iii) finance a significant portion of its investment program
from internally generated resources. This policy is consistent with the
Act of 1965 (Act 310). under which GWSC was established.
4.03      Government approved and GWSC implemented a five-fold tariff
increase in 1986 and increases of 25Z in both 1987 and 1988 2/. As a
result, GWSC has repor :ed annual operating surpluses since 1986 compared to
prior years' deficits.  The apparent surpluses have to be viewed with
caut'en, however.  Depreciation and interest charges are significantly
understated as a result of carrying fixed assets at depreciated historical
costs and failure to revalue debt at current exchange rates in the balance
sheet.  GWSC's current tariff structure is presented in Annex 4-1.   GWSC
would need further tariff increases to ensure that after meeting its
operating and debt service costs, it is able to contribute reasonably
toward its capital development program. Under the terms of a loan
agreement with AfDB for the ATMA Rehabilitation Project, GWSC has agreed to
continue to increase tariffs at the rste of 25Z per year for each of the
years 1989-1991. However, as salary levels have not kept pace with
inflation, the affordability of water charges, particularly by low income
groups, needs to be monitored. While projected tariffs appear to be
affordable (para 5.03), a tariff itudy to be carried out under the project
would address the appropriateness of the existing tariff structure, giving
particular regard to the impact of GWSC's progressive and flat rate tariffs
on the various categories of consumers. During negotiations, it was agreed
that GWSC will adjust tariffs or take other actions as necessary to meet
its operating and debt service costs and to provide the counterpart funds
required to implement its approved investment program (para 6.01(b)(vii))
and that GOG will respond within 90 days to GWSC's requests for tariff
adjustments requiring government approval (para 6.01(a)).
C. Billing and Collection
4.04      Of GWSC's 196,000 estimated water connections, 110,000 are
metered. However, only about half of the meters are functional.
Unaccounted-for water as a result of illegal connections, under-
registration of meters, and leakage from the distribution system and from
service connections is estimated at 50Z of total water produced.  A program
to reduce non-revenue water would be formulated under the technical
assistance component of the project (para 3.02).
2/ A Government directive dated July 14, 1987 confirmed GWSC's authority
to increase tariffs by up to 10? per quarter, provided that increases
are limited to 25Z in any calendar year.



- 19 -
4.05      Billing of water accounts is computerized only in ATMA, but in
all regions, bills are rerdered monthly. Due to a change in March 1988 of
computer service bureau for ATMA billings, GWSC fell four months behind in
billing, but had by November reduced the billing arrears to one month. Net
accounts receivable at the end of September 1988 stood at over ¢1,800
million which is equivalent to six months' billings. About 01,200 million
is due from GOG and 0600 million from private consumers. The high levels
of Government recei'.ables have created serious liquidity problems for GWSC.
GWSC has recently improved its collection efficiency to approximately 85Z
of billings to non-government consumers. Although the provision for
doubtful accounts is adequate, GWSC will have to make a realistic
assessment of non-recoverables frosn private consumers In order to write
them off. Under the project, technical assistance will be provided to the
regions to enable them to change their manual billings to a computerized
system.
D. Recapitalization Program and Financing Plan
4.06      The rapid depreciation of the Cedi against the currencies in
which loans are denominated has substantially increased GWSC's debt burden.
Consequently, GWSC is not currently in a position to meet all of its debt
service obligations. In addition, the value of GWSC's assets in the
balance sheet is grossly understated and the provision for depreciaticn is
inadequate for GWSC to be able to replace its assets at the end of their
useful life. An exercise is currently being carried out by GWSC to
notionally revalue assets based on exchange rate movements since 1983, with
the aim of restating the value of the assets and to provide for
depreciation on a more realistic basis. Under the project, GWSC's fixed
assets would be revalued to reflect replacement cost and the remaining
useful life.
4.07      In the near term, GWSC's capital development expenditures will be
financed largely by foreign loans and grants. Due to the difficult
economic situation facing the country, it is highly unlikely that
Government will be able to increase its contribution. GWSC's medium-term
investment program includes the proposed IDA-assisted project and the
AfDBlGovernment of Italy-assisted ATMA Rehabilitation Project. These
projects will require about 010,000 million in counterpart funds from GWSC
over the period 1989-1996. It is anticipated that GOG will provide the
counterpart funds required to implement the CIDA-assisted rehabilitation
project in the Northern and Upper Regions. The related loans would
significantly add to GWSC's debt burden. In view of the low debt service
coverage, inadequate working capital and substantial capital investment
program, GWSC's capital needs to be restructured. GOG and GWSC have agreed
on a proposal for capital restructuring and effecting the restructuring
will be a condition of credit effectiveness (para 6.02(e)).



- 20 -
GWSC Financine Plan 1989-1996
¢ million      1
Sources
Cash Generation-Operations          42,652       47
LESS: Net Increases in Working
Capital                           4,427       5
38,225      42
Loan Disbursements                  535546        8
Total                         91 771     100
Applications
Debt Service                        17,505       19
Investment Outlays                  74,266      81
Total                         91.771     100
E. Clearinghouse Arrangement
4.08      In the past, GWSC has suffered from GOG's delays in paying its
water charges. GOG's debt outstanding to GSWC as at the end of September
1988 was estimated at 01.200 million. However, GWSC's arrears to the
Electricity Corporation of Ghana (ECG) also approached this level.  A Cross
Debt Secretariat comprising representatives of all affected agencies
verified the cross debts of VRA, ECG, GWSC and Government and prepared a
settlement plan which enables the clearing of all mutual obligations on a
current basis. This should greatly improve the predictability and
reliability of GWSC's cash flow.  The system has been operational since
April 1989 with effect retroactive to January 1. Monthly payments are
based on estimates with adjustments for actual obligations made during a
quarterly reconciliation process.
F. Accounts and Audit
4.09      GWSC maintains a manual accrual basis accounting system with
separate income and expense accounts and balance sheets for each region.
Comprehensive financial statements are produced monthly. GWSC's
consolidated accounts have been independently audited annually by an
international firm of accountants and there have been no qualifications.
GWSC's financial accounting and reporting systems are adequate. The audit
of GWSCs 1987 accounts has been completed and final audited accounts will
be issued shortly. In the future, GWSC's annual accounts and auditor's
reports will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal
year.
G. Future Financial Performance
4.10      One of the project's main objectives is to improve GWSC's
financial performance. However, as financial and operating performance are
closely linked, there will not be a substantial improvement in GWSC's
financial performance until 1992, reflecting the impact of both the
Manpower Improvement Program and increased production of water as a result
of physical rehabilitation work. By 1992, GWSC should also be in a



- 21 -
position of achieving an acceptable rate of return on revalued net fixed
assets. Detailed financial projections for the period 1989-1997 and the
assumptions on which they are based are presented in Annsxes 4-2 and 4-3.
GWSC's Proiected Financial Performance 1989-1997 a/
1989      1991      1993       1995     1997
-------------- Cedi million ----------------
Sales (billion gallons)          17.0      17.9       21.3      25.1      25.6
Average Tariff (0l1000 gallons)  313         489       556       613       676
Revenues                        4,988     8,248    11,258    14,611   16,422
Operating Expenses              6.398     7.479      8.834    12.103   13.936
Operating Income/(Loss)        (1,410)      769      2,425     2,508    2,486
Less Interest                     334       439        755     1.475    1,600
Net Income/(Loss)              (1,745)      329      1,670     1,032       886
Operating Ratio (Z)              128        91         79        83        85
Rate of Return (2)              (3.4)      1.6        4.0       2.8       2.6
Current Ratio                    2.3       2.4        2.5       2.5       1.9
Receivables (no. months
billings)                    1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0      1.0
Debt/Equity Ratio                0.2       0.5        0.7       0.8       0.7
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Project Benefits
5.01     Inadequate public water supply constitutes a serious risk to the
health and welfare of the people, particularly the poor who are unable to
afford alternative means of obtaining safe water. Waterborne diseases are
at present widespread and endemic. Water shortages also constitute an
important constraint to economic development. The project represents the
least cost solution to restoring production capacity to 37 of GWSC's larger
systems and providing for limited expansion in extreme cases of usmet need.
Incremental water provided under the project is estimated at about 21
million gallons per day. The works proposed under the project would
improve the availability and reliability of water supply to a service
population of 2.7 million throughout the country, 1.0 million of which
reside in some 700 small communities of less than 10,000 population.
Institutional strengthening will enhance GWSC's ability to finance and
implement needed investments as well as to properly operate and maintain
the rehabilitated systems.
a/ Columns may not add due to rounding.



- 22 -
B.  Poverty Impact and Affordability
5.02     The Ghana Living Standards Survey (GLSS) was launched in September
1987 to collect data that would allow GOG to measure the quality of life in
Ghana. As there has been no other major expenditure survey in Ghana since
1975, the preliminary data available from the first phase of GLSS represent
the best basis for assessing the affordability of water tariffs as well as
the project's impact on poverty groups.
5.03     The GLSS estimates average household size at 4.9 which coincides
with the results of an earlier (1984) survey which also estimated the
average size of an urban household at 4.3. Assuming a household size of
4.3 and average consumption of about 50 lcd, an average urban household
would consume approximately 1,500 gallons per month. Even after effecting
tariff increases projected for 1989-1991, metered consumption at this level
would account for only about 3.12 of household income at the third decile,
well within the usual 3-SZ guideline. Tariffs for standpipe and unmetered
consumption would require less than 32 of household income even for the
lowest income groups.  Since GWSC estimates that 502 of consumption is
either through standpipes or unmetered connections, current and projected
tariffs are considered affordable.
5.04     The GLSS relies on consumption expenditures as a measure of
income. By applying several different indicators of poverty levels, the
urban poverty threshold in Ghana has been estimated in the range of ¢35,000
to 054,000 (Annex 5-1). Using these thresholds, it is estimated that 30Z
of the urban population in Ghana fall within the poverty group. Since the
project will improve service generally in the affected urban and semi-urban
areas, it is reasonable to expect that approximately 30Z of the project
costs will benefit the poverty group.
C. Economic Rate of Return
5.05     Annex 5-1 summarizes the findings of the economic analysis.
Because of the difficulty in measuring the economic benefits of water
supply when tariff rates are administratively controlled rather than
determined by market forces, the rate of return calculations are only
indicative of true economic returns. Currently many households purchase
water from vendors at prices several times the GWSC rate due to the lack of
availability of water from GWSC. An analysis in which willingness to pay
was estimated in part using data based on GWSC's tariffs and in part on
prices actually paid for vendor supplied water. indicates that the economic
rate of return might be estimated at about 15Z. The sensitivity analysis
produced results ranging from 12 to 19Z, the lowest resulting from
assumptions of a 10 reduction in benefits coupled with a 10 increase in
costs. Benefits are converted into border prices at the shadow exchange
rate, adjusted by the general conversion factor for Ghana. Capital and
operating costs are measured in international border prices, excluding
duties and taxes. Local costs are converted into border prices by applying
the general conversion factor.



- 23 -
D.  Proiect Risks
5.06     The project's major risks relate to GWSC's ability to generate
sufficient internal cash flow to contribute the required counterpart funds
and the capability of GWSC to satisfactorily implement and manage a project
*         of this size.  A project component to reduce the level of non-revenue
produc-ing water would lower GWSC's operating costs and increase revenues.
Technical assistance would be provided under the project to enhance
financial management capability at the regional level. This would include
provision of micro-computer based billing systems and increased consumer
metering, both of which should further increase revenues.  Project
management risks would be minimized by substantially strengthening GWSC's
Project and Construction Management Unit.  While the project is relatively
large, it is preferable to an alternative whereby several fragmented
projects are attempted by a number of donors acting individually.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
!         A. Agreements
6.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached with:
(a)   Government of Ghana that it would respond within 90 days to
GWSC's requests for approval of those tariff adjustments
requiring Government's authorization and needed by GWSC to
meet its financial targets (para 4.03); and
(b)   Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation that it would:
(i) review with IDA annually its proposed three-year
investment program and consult with IDA before
contracting any additional long-term debt exceeding
US$5 million equivalent prior to completion of the
project (para 2.21);
(ii) implement a Manpower Improvement Program involving
recruitment of additional key staff and retrenchment
of redundant employees (para 2.24);
(iii) employ a panel of experts, acceptable to IDA, to
assess the environmental impact and review the concept
of raising the Brimsu dam and its associated
structures and the adequacy of their design (para
3.03);
(iv) by January 1, 1992, propose to IDA appropriate
arrangements for the periodic inspection of selected
dams which provide water to areas in which works are
to be rehabilitated under the project (para 3.04);
(v) replenish the Project Account whenever the balance
falls below ¢20 million (para 3.16);



- 24 -
(vi) submit annually to IDA for review its rolling
corporate plan and draft performance contract and
regularly zeview with Government and IDA its actual
performance against agreed monitoring indicators (para
3.17): and
(vii) adjust tariffs or take other actions as necessary to
ensure that internally generated funds are sufficient
to fully meet cash operating costs and debt service
and to provide the required counterpart funds to
support its approved investment program (para 4.03).
B. Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
6.02     The following are conditions of credit effectivenesst
(a)   implementation of the first phase of the agreed Manpower
Improvement Program (para 2.24);
(b)   execution by Government and GWSC of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement acceptable to IDA for onlending US$16.9 million
and transferring as equity US$8.1 million of the IDA credit
Cpara 3.07);
tc)   execution of financing agreements with the Governments of
Austria and the United Kingdom (para 3.09);
(d)   establishment of a Project Account with an initial deposit
of a50 million (para 3.16); and
(e)   effectiveness of a program acceptable to IDA for capital
restructuring of GWSC (para 4.07).
C. Recommendation
6.03     Subject to agreement on the above, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 19.3 million (US$25 million equivalent)
to the Government of Ghana.
AF41N
May 1989



- 25 -   ANNEX 2-1
Page 1 of 2
Ii~~~-
iib II                              
,I'S L] , 1y  ,i[      !
1|-X  g~~~~~~I



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABIUTATION PROJECT
Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
Regional & Distirlct Organization
I   DMD        |
I  ntemal Audit    ...E                            }
Relifrfal Frsinewr|                                                          ReZbaRnna 
OpIton  T                Plan ng
an                            aZ                                                 Finnc          ReLsmueX L
m                               Develop.~~~~               Cmstlng bn
aT  Waw -Mabn-
quak         enance                                              
N
Supply                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CdWM438460 



-27 -                        ANNEX 2-2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
GWSC Manpower Improvement Program Action Plan
GWSC's Manpower Improvement Program (MIP) involves three major
elements--recruitment, redeployment, training and career advancement.
Recruitment
GWSC is continuing its efforts to recruit some 100 key personnel
|        comprising engineers, technicians, financial and administrative
specialists.  GWSC intends to advertise at approximately six-month
intervals until its recruitment goals are met.  The first stage of
recruitment will concentrate mainly on building capability at the regional
centers to support further delegation of management authority and
j        responsibility to the regions (para 2.08).  Positions advertised in April
1989 included an Executive Assistant to the Managing Director (para 2.09),
engineers, regional commercial managers, stores managers, accountants and
administrative officers. The first series of interviews will take place in
June, with appointments expected to follow in July/August. Recruitment
incentives in the form of housing and provision of transportation for key
positions are expected to enable GWSC to attract the caliber of staff it
seeks to strengthen management and other cadres.
Redeployment
Since 1986, GWSC has enforced a policy of banning recruitment
of all but technically and professionally qualified staff. Consequently,
GWSC's staffing has been reduced from 6,700 in mid-1986 to about 6,300 at
the end of 1988. GWSC seeks to retrench an additional 1,500 redundant
employees to achieve a desired staff strength of 4,900 by the end of 1992.
The first stage of the redeployment program would encompass retirement of
those employees who meet the conditions for mandatory retirement or who
have been identified by a joint union-management committee as being
unproductive. In parallel with this process, GWSC's total staffing will be
reviewed and categories of overmanning identified. Following this, target
reductions would be agreed and a funding schedule will be prepared.
With the acknowledgement that required redundancy payments
to an individual can increase dramatically with the passage of time, merely
as a result of changes in the public sector salary scale, GWSC intends to
"front-end load" the redeployme:' program as much as possible, with 200
staff being redeployed in 1989, a target of no less than 700 (and perhaps
as many as 1,000) in 1990, with the remainder being evenly distributed
during the remaining two years of the program. The total cost of
eliminating 1,500 redundancies is estimated at 01.2 billion. Subsequently,
further decreases in total staffing would result from natural attrition,
primarily due to retirements, as CWSC estimates that only approximately
half of those employees leaving the service of the corporation during the



- 28 -                     ANNEX 2-2
Page 2 of 2
following five years would be replaced.  This would cause a further net
reduction of 250, with GWQC's total staff of 4,650 by 1997 comprising 202
technically or professionally qualified personnel and 80 others.
Training and Career Advancement
Following redeployment, GWSC will conduct a training needs
analysis of the remaining staff. Identified training needs will be
addressed through higher quality, more relevant training programs as
described in Annex 2-3.
In order to encourage and retain well qualified staff, GWSC will
develop a program of expanded inducements and benefits, including a staff
housing program, which will be used selectively to reward and to retain
excellent staff. A freeze on promotions, which has been in effect since
1984, has recently been lifted. GWSC will henceforth adhere strictly to a
system of promotions based on qualifications and merit, rather than the
system of seniority and length of service previously in effect.
First Phase of MIP
The first phase of the MIP, which will be completed by August
1989, comprises appointment of 20 managerial and professional staff to
strengthen regional staffing and redeployment of the first 200 of the 1,500
redundant employees to reduce overstaffing.
GWSC
may 1989



- 29 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Manpower and Training
Present Situation
Manpower
1.        Out of a total of 6,300 employees, about 62 of GWSC's staff are
in headquarters; more than 202 are in the Greater Accra Region; and the
remaining 74Z are dispersed among the nine other regions. A manpower
utilization study, carried out in 1986187 financed under Credit 1342
estimates GWSC's actual staffing needs at about 4,500 persons. The study
identified as major problems the large number of redundant unskilled staff
and the shortage of top and mid-level management and supervisory staff.
For years, and despite a rather favorable job market, GWSC has not been
able to attract and retain technically and professionally qualified staff,
mainly because of the low salaries and unattractive benefits package it can
offer. On the other hand, a large number of unskilled employees have been
recruited, most of them being redundant with existing staff. This
imbalance in staffing is obviously a significant factor in the physical
deterioration of GWSC's systems, both because of the lack of adequate
maintenance and because of the heavy drain on GWSC's financial resources.
Personnel and related costs account for nearly 40X of GWSC's total cash
operating expenditures, this having worsened as a result of the recent
salary increase approved by Government (33-113Z in April 1988, retroactive
to January 1) for the civil service and all parastatals.
2.        The seriousness of overstaffing has been recognized by GWSC
management and measures are being taken to reduce the number of redundant
employees and to recruit a number of professional staff to fill key
positions. Details of GWSC's plans for recruitment and redeployment are
given in Annex 2-2.
3.        To improve GWSC's management capacity and effectiveness, the
previous IDA-assisted project (Credit 1342) provided technical assistance
in the areas of corporate management, finance and planning, workshop
management, water sales and revenue collection. Although the involvement
of five experts for three years each, did not achieve all its objectives,
it undeniably helped to limit GWSC's decline during this period of national
economic depression. GWSC recently adopted a more flexible approach to
long-term technical assistance in the form of a twinning arrangement.
Under Credit 1342, a two-year twinning agreement was signed in June 1988,
with Thames Water International (UK), the objectives of which are to: (i)
improve the corporate performance of GWSC; (ii) maximize the training
benefits to the GWSC personnel; (iii) improve the management capabilities
of GWSC; and (iv) improve the efficiency of operation and maintenance of
water supply systems in the regions. The twinning arrangement will thus
provide opportunities to integrate technical assistance and training.



- 30 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 2 of 4
Training
4.        Since its establishment, GWSC has been conscious of the necessity
to train and retrain all categories of its staff, and, until the mid to
late 19709, training was a well established function within GWSC and
continued to be an integral and important element of GWSC's activities. At
that time, concomitant with the economic decline of the country and the
deterioration of the financial viability of GWSC, training did not cease,
but it lost its direction and focus. It is significant that the position
of head of the Training Division has been vacant for two years. For the
time being, GWSC's training activities include in-house training, training
in local institutions, and training overseas. At preaent, GWSC has no
training policy or clear objectives. The above-mentioned study (para 1)
proposed a training policy, including goals and objectives, as well as a
general training program.
5.        In-house training is mostly conducted at training schools at
Owabi (near Kumasi), established in 1965, and Weija (near Accra),
established in the late 1970s. Their poor state of repair does not permit
optimal use of these facilities and both need completion, rehabilitation
and, to some extent, expansion. Only 62 trainees in 1986 and 75 in 1987,
i.e. about 12 of GWSC's total staff attended training courses in Veija and
Owabi; this represents a total of 452 trainee-weeks in 1986 and 633 in
1987, whereas the optimum working capacity, after rehabilitation,
completion and some expansion of both schools, would be around 3,000
trainee-weeks per year. The training carried out at these schools is
designed for operators, attendants of pumping and treatment plants or
distribution systems, as well as for district managers in the areas of
finance, administration and security, and clerical staff. The content of
these programs has not been reviewed for a long time and their relevance to
the Corporation's needs has not been thoroughly evaluated. Other in-house
training activities (plumbing, welding) are carried out in the Eastern
Region (Koforidua) with GTZ assistance. A small training center was also
recently established in Zuarungu, near Tamale, in the Northern Region, with
assistance from CIDA; this center is mostly focusing on rural water supply
issues. Under OuiA financing, GWSC plans to reactivate the Weija and Owabi
training schools, with the assistance of Thames Water International. The
18-month program will focus on two main elements (i) training needs
assessment; and (ii) development of training resources, in particular
instructor selection and training.
6.        The remainder of in-country training activities are performed by
local training institutions such as (i) the Management Development and
Productivity Institute (MDPI) where about 20 to 30 mid-level staff each
year attend four- to six-week management courses on such topics as
accounting, communications, supervision, and quality control; (ii) the
Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration (GIMPA) which
should train about 10 senior GWSC staff annually in administration, finance
and personnel management; (iii) the local universities, namely University
of Ghana and University of Science and Technology (Kumasi) which provide
one- to two-year post-graduate courses; (iv) the Polytechnics in Accra,



- 31 -
ANNEX 2-3
Pase 3 of 4
Kumasi, Takoradi and Tamale, which also provide post-graduate courses; and
(v) various institutions such as the Institute of Technical Supervision,
the Government Secretariat School, the Accra Technical Training Center, the
Civil Service Training Center, the National Vocational Training Institute,
which provide training courses in various job categories. Between 1982 and
1987, more than 130 GWSC employees benefited from training at one of these
institutions, most of theim at MDPI. While GWSC's in-house training
activities stagnated in recent years because of the inadequate facilities
at the training schools, GWSC had more and more recourse to local
institutions, mainly MDPI and GIMPA, to train its personnel. Expenditures
for this type of training increased from 01.32 million in 1985 to 07.03
million in 1987 and accounted for about 442 of GWSC's training budget in
1987.
7.        About 40 staff were trained abroad during the period 1982 to
1987, and several more are expected to start training overseas in the near
future for post-graduate courses of three months to two years, scholarship
availability permitting. Areas of training range from sanitary engineering
to economics, finance, accounting, training management, purchasing and
inventory management. The relevance of this type of training to GWSC's
priority needs is questionable and should be carefully evaluated.
8.        The total approved budget of the Training Division increased from
06.72 million in 1985 to 027.09 million in 1987, but actual expenditures
grew less rapidly, from 06.27 million in 1985 to 016.06 million in 1987,
which represented 1.6Z and 1.42 of GWSC's payroll, respectively. The gap
between approved budget and actual expenditures in 1987 reflects the
limited capacity of the Training Division, in terms of staff and in terms
of facilities. The average increase of 60Z per year in training
expenditures relates primarily to substantial increases in salaries and
related costs of GWSC's training personnel and in tuition for in-country
training, while the expenditures for operating the GWSC training schools
dropped by 10.72 per year. Approved training budgets of 020 million for
1988 and 1989 are considered reasonable.
Proposed Measures
9.        To help GWSC improve the composition of its staffing, it will be
necessary to provide some incentives to attract and retain suitable high-
and mid-level staff, mostly in the regions. The project will finance about
75 units of staff housing as an incentive to the recruitment and retention
of qualified staff, the shortage of housing being an acute problem
throughout the country.  On the other hand, the retrenchment process Lest
start and be achieved as soon as possible.
10.       GWSC's management capability should benefit from the twinning
agreement with Thames Water International, financed under Credit 1342.
Having begun only in August 1988, the program is still in the early stages.
However, if this arrangement proves successful, the project could finance a
two-year extension, thus providing more training opportunities for
management and supervisory staff.



- 32 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 4 of 4
11.       Training will be an important factor in the stabilization,
rehabilitation and development of the Corporation. The implementation of a
training policy with new training processes and programs will necessitate
the completion, rehabilitation and some extension of the existing training
facilities. The project will finance the renovation and the upgrading of
the Weija and Owabi training schools. This will facilitate implementation
of the ODA-financed program.   Technical assistance will be required to
strengthen and streamline training activities by better organizing the
Training Division of GWSC, training its staff, establishing training
procedures, selecting training participants and coordinating training
activities. The p:oject will finance 24 months of a training specialist,
whose terms of reference (available in project file) were discussed and
agreed with GWSC during appraisal, thus supplementing and maximizing the
ODA program expected outputs. This specialist will be assigned to the
headquarters as Head of the Training Division for a two-year period. A
counterpart appointed by GWSC as Deputy Head of the Training Division will
be trained during this period so as to take over from the technical
assistant. The timely nomination of the counterpart, as indicated in the
Attachment, is essential for the whole training reactivation process.
12.       Technical assistance financed under the project will provide an
excellent opportunity to provide on-the-job training over several years.
The terms of reference (available in project file) for project management,
finance and accounting, operation and maintenance, emphasize this training
role. This will be especially important in strengthening management and
supervision at the regional level.
13.       No real take-off of GWSC's in-house training activities can be
expected before completion, rehabilitation and some expansion of the Weija
and Owabi training schools, celection and training of instructors and
upgrading or development of training programs. The implementation schedule
(Attachment) illustrates the start-up period of training activities; this
period is particularly critical because it concentrates all the key actions
governing the future of GWSC's training function. Training activities will
continue at the present pace during the beginning of the project and the
actual re-start is not expected to take place before calendar year 1991, by
which time the training schools will have been rehabilitated and the
instructor training and program development components will be well
underway.
14.       Training in Weija and Owabi should progress rapidly after 1991
and the following attendance may be expected during the project period.
Calendar year        No. of trainees      No. of trainee-weeks
1990                     100                      700
1992                    200                     1200
1994                     300                    1500
1996                    400                     2000
AM4IN
May 1989



ANNEX 2-3
_ 33 _          Attachment
IL~ ~~I
_-            _  _  _  _i 
§ _ I -.TTH-'
IC~~~~~~~~~~~
oX          l
ElX    ll   li    lll        ll~~~
e§E  _             I
ig f__    ~~~~~~~~~~~I
£ [}.' iXt1 xil!zlffi0'!l'~



- 34 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
The Bank's Involvement in the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
1.          The Bank Group has financed three water supply and sewerage
projects in Ghana, Credits 160-GH and 499-GH, which were directed to ATMh, and
Credit 1342-GH, a technical assistance and rehabilitation project. The first
project (US$3.5 million credit in 1969) assisted in expanding the water supply
distribution network in Accra-Tema and constructing a sewerage system in
central Accra. The project was completed in 1973 with a cost overrun of about
32Z and a time delay on the water supply and sewerage components of six months
and two years, respectively. The Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
project performance audit report (No. 1683 of July 29, 1977) on this project
concluded that, while the objective of the water supply component was met, the
objective of the sewerage component was not met due to failure of potential
users to connect to the system.
2.          The second project (Credit 499-GH for US$10.4 million in 1974) was
financed in parallel with the African Development Bank (AfDB) and CIDA. It
was intended to increase the installed capacity of ATMA to meet existing and
future needs for potable water for some 800,000 people in the Accra-Tema
metropolis and to extend water supply to some 170,000 people living in
adjacent rural areas. Although the IDA-financed component, including
construction of a 17m high sarth dam at ieija, was completed in 1980, the
entire project was not completed until mid-1985 about six years later than
originally envisaged. This was due to general shortages of materials and
labor which affected civil works. Cost overruns on the foreign currency
component were held to 162 by reduction of the project scope pertaining to the
distribution system extensions.
3.          The institution building objectives of the first and second
projects were not fully achieved, in part because of a very high turnover of
GWSC's top level officers, lack of managerial autonomy from Government, and
overstaffing at the lower levels. Limited institutional capabilities and the
lack of finance prevented redressing a negative impact of the second water
supply project, specifically the proliferation of weeds in Weija Reservoir and
an increase in the schistosomiasis prevalence rate among villagers in the
area. However, the third project addressed this particular problem with the
introduction of a surveillance and monitoring program for implementation by
GWSC and other Government agencies to imp-rve reservoir maintenance
procedures.
4.          In the second project, although parts of the distribution system
extensions were not constructed because of a lack of local funds and
materials, the basic physical objective was met, thereby providing the water
resource capacity to meet the needs of some 800,0JO consumers in ATMA. The
estimated completion cost of US$51.5 million was 16? above the appraisal
estimate of US$44.7 million. This cost overrun was relatively small because



-35-
ANNEX 2-4
Page 2 of 3
of the reduced scope of the project, primarily distribution system cut-backs,
and a devaluation of the currency of the contract. The covenanted rate of
return on operational assets was met during the early period of project
execution, but a delayed tariff increase and high inflation caused a
subbequent default on the major financial covenants.
5.          The third project, financed under Credit 1342-GH for
US$13.0 million in 1983, was initially designed as a technical assistance
;          project with the objective of strengthening the management of GWSC and
improving its capacity for project planning and implementation.  The project
*          was identified jointly by the Government, IDA and GWSC and appraised by an IDA
mission in November 1978.  An IDA credit of US$3.2 million to support the
project was negotiated in February 1980.  Further processing of this credit
was, however, delayed because it was necessary for GWSC to increase water
tariffs.  Government approved an increase, and tariffs were raised in February
1981.  In the meantime, at the request of the Government and GWSC, the
Association agreed to consider restructuring the scope of the project to
include urgent rehabilitation of the transmission and distribution facilities
in the Accra-Tema area, in light of their rapid deterioration since the
project appraisal, and to include additional technical assistance. The
restructured project was appraised by an IDA mis!ion in November 1980 and
negotiations took place in Accra in August 1981. Because of a further delay
in processing the credit, it was necessary to update the project cost
estimates and renegotiate the credit in January 1983.
6.          As in the first and second projects, institution building
objectives were again not fully achieved, because of the effects of the sharp
decline in Ghana's economy in the late 1970s and early 1980s, which, inter
alia, precipitated an exodus of a large part of the professional staff of GWSC
to neighboring countries and beyond. Five expatriate specialist advisors to
GWSC were financed under the technical assistance component of the project.
Each of the advisors spent three years or so working with GWSC professional
staff and were successful to varying degrees in effecting institutional
improvements in management, financial control, planning and maintenance.
Although major institutional improvements envisaged at appraisal have not
occurred, the decline in GWSC during this period of national economic
depression would likely have been more severe but for the input of the
specialist advisors provided under the project. The project's physical
components were successfully completed, including emergency repairs to and
rehabilitation of thei Xpong-Tema-Accra transmission pipeline. Other
components comprised provision of spare parts, tools, water meters, valves and
vehicles (r.quired for emergency repairs and maintenance of the Accra-Tema
distribution network, improved meter reading, billing and collection);
provision of consultant services for preparation of a future water supply
project; and consultant services to assist in implementation of a surveillance
program for the Weija Reservoir and Densu River.
7.          The project has now been substantially completed with the
exception of part of the technical assistance component which provides for a
twinning contract between GWSC and Thames Water International (UK) to provide



- 36 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 3 of 3
training and assistance to improve operational and administrative procedures
within GWSC. This contract will be completed by mid-1990, the revised project
completion date, which is some 3 112 years later than originally forecasted.
AF4IN
February 1989



-37 -
AM=X 3-1
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GEANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proiect Description
Background
1.          At a water supply and sanitation conference held in Accra in
September 1987, GWSC solicited the support of the donor commnunity for
financing a five-year rehabilitation and development plan.  The proposed
investment program emphasized restoration of supply capacity in urban and
semi-urban areas and increased coverage of point source supplies in rural
areas.  The complete five-year program totalled in excess of US$250 million.
Although a number of donors pledged their support during the conference, it
was recognized that it would not be possible to mobilize resources to finance
the five-year program in its entirety and, in any event, implementation of
such a large investment program would certainly exceed GWSC's absorptive
capacity. Subsequently, it was agreed that the 40 highest priority projects
as ranked in GWSC's proposed five-year investment program would be studied
further for possible inclusion in a country-wide rehabilitation program. The
feasibility study, which was financed under the ongoing Yater Supply Technical
Assistance and Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1342), was completed in early
September 1988 and forms the basis for the water supply rehabilitation and
expansion components of the proposed project. Other project components were
prepared by GWSC's Planning and Development Department.
2.          Many of GWSC's 208 water supply systems are old and have seriously
deteriorated due to lack of adequate maintenance resulting largely from a
shortage of funds for spare parts and funds to replace defective mechanical
and electrical equipment. As many as one third of the systems are reported to
have ceased to function and the output of the remaining systems has seriously
declined. Furthermore, lack of adequate financing has constrained development
of new capital works and expansion of existing systems, widening the gap
between water supply and demand, particularly in rapidly growing urban areas.
A large rehabilitation program is, therefore, needed to restore water systems
to their former capacity and to an acceptable level of reliability in an
effort to stem the serious incidence of water related diseases.
3.          Equally important is a need to further strengthen GWSC.  Technical
assistance provided under the project would give emphasis to improved
financial management, manpower utilization and operation and maintenance. The
process of decentralization of operations to regional management, which began
under the ongoing project, would be continued. Strengthening GWSC's
capability to effectively operate and maintain its facilities and to improve
its financial performance are essential to improving water services throughout
Ghana. The project, desigr.ed to meet these major needs of the sector,
comprises three groups of components: (i) those that provide support and
development to GWSC; (ii) physical works to improve and expand 37 of GWSC's
water systems; and (iii) technical studies.



- 38 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 4
Technical Assistance
4.          Under the first category, technical assistance is the largest
component. This component has three objectives: ti) to strengthen GWSC's
regional management in the areas of finance and accounting; (ii) to improve
operation and maintenance of water systems throughout the project area; (iii)
to improve operational and administrative procedures at GWSC headquarters. To
achieve these objectives, GWSC proposes to appoint a Project Management
Consultant (PMC) to provide a small group of specialists who, with
counterparts from GWSC, would strengthen the existing Project and Construction
Management Unit (PCMU) (Annex 3-4). Staff provided by the PMC would include:
an experienced project manager to head PCMU; two operations and maintenance
specialists to formulate and implement improved operation and maintenance
procedures in the regions; two finance specialists to improve regional
financial systems and train regional staff in the recommended systems and
procedures. Short-term assignments would comprise a computer specialist, a
finance adviser (to establish the accounting methods and procedures in PCMU)
and technical specialists as needed for specific consultations which may arise
during the course of the project. To improve operational and administrative
procedures at GWSC headquarters, provision would be made to permit GWSC to
extend the present atwinningw contract between GWSC and Thames Water
International (UK) for a further period of up to two years.
S.          Training would also provide support and development assistance to
GWSC. As a supplement to the proposed Thames Water International (UK) project
(financed by ODA (UK) to "reactivate GWSC's training schools'), the IDA-
assisted project would finance a trainer for a two-year period to assist in
formulating a strategy for GWSC's training schools, continuing work on
training needs analyses and improving curricula.
Buildings and Essential Equipment and Materials
6.          A series of physical improvements are also included to support
GWSC's activities. These comprise building improvements to workshops, stores
and training centers and the provision of staff housing as an incentive to the
recruitment and retention of GWSC staff. The project also provides for items
essential for GWSC's operations including: vehicles, spare parts, computers,
communication equipment, a one-year supply af chemicals, laboratory equipment,
equipment and tools for workshops and stores and water meters for consumer
connections, production measurement and leakage control.
Rehabilitation and Expansion of Water Systems
7.          The second major category of the proposed project is the
rehabilitation and limited expansion of 37 of GWSC's 208 water systems
(Attachment). Systems were selected for feasibility studies, on the basis of
a priority ranking in the Five-Year Rehabilitation and Development Plan by
Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation, dated July 1986. Some of the criteria
for this ranking were:



- 39 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 4
(a)   the greatest number of beneficiaries;
(b)   the highest potential increment in water supply per capita;
(c)   least capital cost per capita;
(d)   greatest benefit/cost ratio; and
(e)   socio-political and other noi-quantifiable elements.
S.          The objective in each of the 37 systems is to restore each of the
works to its original design capacity and in most cases (31 systems) to expand
the systems to a limited extent to provide water to densely populated areas
which at present have no supply. In some of the systems, significant
increases in production capacities can be achieved by replacement of defective
mechanical, electrical and chemical feed equipment. In others, more extensive
rehabilitation of facilities--including water intakes, pumping, transmission,
treatment and distribution components--also is rlquired.  Further hydrological
investigation of sources is needed in some areas='. Under an Immediate Action
Program, inoperative and partially operative systems would be improved by
replacement of defective mechanical, electrical and water treatment equipment.
In a parallel operation, action would be taken to restore inoperative systems,
some of which are additional to the 37 systems which have been identified as
having a high priority for rehabilitation and, in some cases expansion, under
the prQject. More detailed descriptions of these proposed works and the
associated hydrological studies are presented in the Attachment to this Annex.
Studies
9.          In addition to the hydrological studies, five further studies are
proposed. The first, Accra Sewerage Feasibility Study, would identify the
least cost method of safely disposing of wastewater from the existing
collection system which serves the City of Accra and would also develop an
approach to promote wider acceptance of the system by public and private
customers, including low income groups in the city center.  The study would
also2 identify methods of strengthening GWSC's capabilities to operate and
maintain the system; identify areas to which the system could be extended; and
ascertain the most suitable forms of sanitation to serve the remainder of the
Accra urban area.
10.         The second study, Engineering Design for Tamale Expansion, is to
provide for expansion of the water supply system in Tamale, the capital of the
Northern Region. Although the existing water system would be rehabilitated
under the proposed project, in conjunction with works to be financed by CIDA
(Canada), expansion of the system is urgently needed to meet the water demands
of the rapidly growing urban area. Engineering design of these expansion
works would be a logical next step to the feasibility study (financed by CIDA)
1/ The proposed rehabilitation of the water supply systems under the project
will not adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows nor will
the Project be adversely affected by the uses of water that other riparians
might make.



- 40 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 4 of 4
which is in progress. As the expansion of the Tamale water supply system
might involve additional water use from one of the Volta Rivers which
originate in Burkina Faso, the feasibility study will address any potential
riparian issues.
11.         Reduction of Unaccounted-for Water, the third activity under the
study category, consists of programs in each of three of the larger
distribution systems at Sunyani, Cape Coast and Sekondi-Takoradi. Consultants,
working with GJSC staff would update distribution system drawings, supervise
improvements to the distribution systems, which are required prior to waste
metering surveys, and train GWSC personnel in these tasks in addition to the
waste metering procedures and location and repair of leaks per se. By these
means, a cadre of well trained personnel would be developed to train GWSC
teams in other areas, with the help of GWSC training school programs. These
programs would supplement similar work in the ATMA area, proposed under the
Thames Water International contract and in the Kumasi area under financing by
ODA. Close liaison would be necessary to ensure that similar methods are used
throughout.
12.         The fourth and fifth studies address Tariffs and the Revaluation
of Fixed Assets. The tariff study would identify an appropriate tariff
structure and levels in the context of affordability to consumers and GWSC's
financial requirements. In revaluing fixed assets, consultants would be
required to verify the inventory of GWSC's assets, estimate their replacement
value and determine their useful life.
AFMIN
may 1989



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Rehabilitatlon and Expansion of 87 Water Systems
Est.     Present  Pro-
Popl.   Preduc-  pood        _                   Project Cosonennts
Description of System               Served   tion       Copse.    Wator R scew
temn           Source             Tretment             ('COO)    (mJ/d3   (maid)       Stodles          ReMbbiItation         Er_pnsic
ASHANrl MION
1. Top.         Kotob River and    Conventlonal             0.7        200       8to   To identify        Provision of *lectric Provalon of elevated
two drilled wells,   (pacitag) plant for                               groundwatr         power _enrators       storage (100 at), oem
stimated total      murfre water,                                      potentlel as a    for wall and treat-   drilled well
yield 400 mS/dby.   1SO mS/day.                                        possible           ment plant operation.  (130 MS/day) and
oupplemant to     Rehabilitation of      exansion of the
*urfae  water.    pmplog and treat-    distribution system.
_ant equigmant.
2. Kumi          ODebi mad erikese   Conventional         560.0    6,800   9r,80O    None planned.         (Rehabil tatlon et    Expenslen of Darikem
Imponding           plantol Ooabi                                                        exitingt foclitie     tratment plant
renarvoirs on the    18,700 *S/dmy and                                                    are o_noin  undsr an  to I1,ts0  3/day,
Off in River and    Berikese                                                              ODA-financed           in coordination wIth
Ito tributary;      54,600 *J/dny,                                                       Project)               ongoing ODA-financed
estimated total                                                                                                  rWahbilitation work.
yiold xe  db
200,000 WA/day.
8. 1ff Ida..    Thre drilled                               14.5        28O       640   Noms planned.       Proilon of            Provision of elevated
Asokoro   wells total yiold                                                                          lectrle p_or          storage (200 d).
280  ll/day,                                                                              g eroators for wel 
p~ottil&l ytold                                                                           epsrotlon.
640 se/day.
4. Juoabn        Two drilld wells,                         10.1        200       60   Lkocatien of         Rebabi Itation of     Construetion of two
total yield                                                            we ll site         tweeolctric pow"      drilled   l lls.
880 ma/day.                                                            r  quired          generators and well   Prevision of
to auga_t the     p.s                    electric poewr
existing supply,                         genrators, pumping
gains (1 km),             ,o D
distribution mains
(1.6 km) and elevated        g
store" (100 a3).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..,o  *|
0  D 
:S- .



Est.      Present   Pro-
Popul.   Produc-   posed                          Project Components
Description of System                Served    tion      Capac.    Water Resource
Town            Source             Treatment             ('000)    (m3/d)    (03/d)      Studies          Rehabilitstion          Expansion
S.  Kona         Aprenkxnsus River;  Conventional             6.0    70 to        260     Determinatlon of   Rehabilitation *nd      Construction of 2
dry *seaon average   (peekage) plant,                  140               tho yield of the   replement of pump-  drilled wells and
yield about 100      180 as/day.                                         Aprenkensus Rlver, Ing and tratment        associated traen-
wl/day.                                                                  In parallel with   plant and quipment.  mission min.
groundonter In-    Replae  e nt of parts
veigtlations, to   of the distribution
assesc which       system.
ource has the
better potential.
6.  Maspong      Chirmue River,       Conventional,          86.0      1,600    2,600    Non  plonnd.        Removal of sediment   Provision of larger
estimated ylld      990 m3/day.                                                            from the Im_ndlng    Intake quipment,
16,000 m3/day.                                                                              r    vesrvir to resore   pumping, treatmnt
capacity. Rehabili-   plant and booster
tation of Intake,      pu mp to Incease
treatment plant,       capacity to 2,600
pumping equipmnt       mS/day.  Augeenta-
aod booster            tin of tranx-
stations.              mission usino end
distribution system.
7.  Obuasn       Hnlowembu Sprlng     Convention al,           7.0       800    7,600     Hydrooeolegical   Rehabilitation of        Construction of I
supplementWd by      900 mg/day, for                                     survey to Iden-    pumping and treatmnt  nmm drilled wells
exce   water frum    surface water                                       tify groundwater  fecillites to be         (capacity 6,0o0
a geld mine system   source.                                             potential and      limited to esential   m$/day) and
and from twe                                                             loeat  well sites, werks pndWing Ashanti  associated pupIng,
drilled wells.                                                           carried out In     Ooldflelds Corpora-    tranemission and Iron
Estimated total                                                          parallel with      tin'se decision on      removal feclilties.
yield 1,600 as/day.                                                      yield studies of   *ater roleesec to
surfac  water      GC syetqo . Rehabi-
*surces.           litation Include  re-
placement of well                                    >
pum  and part of the
distribution system.
0 - 
. -



Est.      Present  Pro-
Popul.   Produc-   posed                          Project Components
Description of System                Served    tion       Capac.   Water Resourc 
Town            Source             Tretent               ('000)    (mBid)    (m3/d)      Studies          Rehabilitation          Expansion
BROIl IMNFO REGION
S. Serehkm       Two drilled welle    Conventional,            86.4       400   2,400    Nydrogeologlosl   Replaement of p_ms   Construction of four
yield estimated at   900 ma/day.                                         survey to locate   on *aisting drilled    new drilled wells,
800 mS/day (intake                                                       wall sites along    ells; extension of    (16o0  a8dsy)
at th  prior  oure,                                                      the Kera River,    electric psor to        with swociated
Kore River, nm                                                           In parallel with   serve thee wells        pumping, tras-
hevily silted).                                                          on evaluation of  and Installstion         miesion and treat-
restoring abstrac- of transission           n facilities (for
ti1n of water      mine.  Rehabill-        lron roval), total
above Kora River  tation of the die-    cap. 2,400 mi/day.
weir.              tribution syem,
access read   euc.
9. Dorma          is River, wIth      Conventional             44.0     1,000   2,S00    None planned.        Rehabilitation of      Completion of an
AbenMro   raw we strage"    8 ,800 m/day.                                                              etorage reservoirs,   extanston of mains
resrvoir,  elt_im-                                                                          pumping equipment,    to serve Aboebo (2.4
nted yield 8,800                                                                            treatment plant and   1cm).
me/day.                                                                                     booster stations.
10.  Sunyani     Tans River           Conventionel,           104.0     4,700   8,500     "one planned.      Replacemnt and re-    Tretent plant
(Abele haadworke)   6,000 mg/day.                                                          habilitation of        capacity increase to
Yield Is adequate                                                                           pump; rehabilitation  8,100 mi/day.
for  imditate needs.                                                                        of mchenical and
electrical equipment,
transmission nd
distribution gains,
rerveoir and
teatmt plant.
Ft
ahs-



Est.      Present  Pro'
Popul.   Produc-   posed                          Prolect Components
Descrioption of System               Served    tien      Capac.    Water Resource
Town            Source             Tretment              (9000)    (mitd)    (m3/d)      Studies          Rehabilitation          Expansion
11. Techlman    Drilled woll,                                29.0       280      4,600    Hydrogeological    Roheoilitstion of the  Completion of minor
230 d3/day.                                                              survey to asess    existing distribution  civil works on tho
Tano River intako                                                        tho groundwater   systm. Replacement   Tan* River, convon-
to servo Techiman                                                        potentlal as a     of pumping equipment   tional treatment
district io under                                                        supplement to,     In drilled wells,       and associated
construction.                                                            and standby for    Including electric      transmission and
Estimated yield                                                          the Techiman       power generator.        eistribution systems.
exceeds 7,609                                                            district project.
md/day.
CENTRAL REGION
12. Cape Coast Kakum River            Conventional; teo     204.2   15,660    20,600    A hydrological       Rehabilitation of      '7aising Brimsu dam.
13,600 ma/day.       plants, 18,260                                      study of the       booster stations.      Extension of the
ma/day and 11,400                                  Kakum River to      Replacomnt and         distribution system
m3/day.                                            determine the       rehabiltation of       to Kom_nda (3.3 kt).
Increase in yield  ports of the distri-                           *5
that would result  bution system.
from rlaisng the
Brimsu dam.
13.  Dunkwa      Eight drilled                               17.8      1,00     2,609    None planned.      Rehabilitation          Expansion of pro-
wells, of which 3                                                                           of drilled wells, the  duction by
are operational.                                                                            tronmission system    co5missioning
Potential yield                                                                             and distribution        additional drilled
estimated at  ,600                                                                          system.                wel Is.
d3/day.
14.  Asikuma     Ochi Nakwa River,    Conventional           8.4          so      60n     A hydrological     Rehabilitation is       Provision of
estimated safe       (packago) plant,                                    study of the       Included under          additional treatment
yield  90 ma/day.    200 ma/day.                                         yield of the Ochl  expansion of works.    capacity, (400           c  
Nakwa Rivev  in                           d3/day), pumping        Go   z
parallel with                             facilities and
groundwater                               elevated storage
studies.                                  (10.3).                 O I



Est.     Present  Pro-
Popul.   Produc-  poed        _                  Prolect Comonent.
bescriotion of Ssttem               Serwed    tion      Capec.   Water Resource
To"n           Seurco             Treatment             (1000)   (maid)    (maid)      Studies          Rehabilitation         Expanslon
16. Kwanyoku   An impounolng         Conventional,        800.0    18,400    17,000   HNne planned         R  ev-l of *ilt freom  None planned.
resrsoir on the     21,000 ms/day.                                     under bhlu pro-   the reseroirt repelr
Aynu River; e*-                                                        Jecit. Study       of da  gotee, ln-
ti_ ted y hid Is                                                        required In       takes, ete. Rabobi-
between 10,000 and                                                     longer term         litotlor and ro-
44,000 da/doy.                                                         planning.          placent. of treat-
ment plant, pumpino
stations and die-
t.ribution system.
EASTER REGION
lt. Akis         Three drilled                              9.0        1B0       560   None planned.       Rehbilitation of       Non planrnd.
Soedru   "slet, total                                                                               existing drilled
eap. G00 md/dy.                                                                           wells and  _saociated
pO , tni alesiaon
and distribution
ystems. 
17. Anu Boeo   Volta Lake, propoeWd A n  convwntional          28.0   260      1,700    Non planned.       Provislon of a new     Copletion of the
Intake cap. 900     plant l under                                                        floating Intake with  contr4ctlo  of a men
ma/day. Four         constructIon, 900                                                      ssointated p_ p  and  tratment plant (900
dril I ed wel In (now   ea/day.                                                           tranmielon main.    da/day) to replae
dieuned), potential                                                                       Protaicon of a *        the existing
yield 800 m*/day.                                                                         electric power          Inoperative tetanCt
garator. Rehabl-   plant. Extnd the
lItttion of drilled    distribution systm
wells and pumping     to neuly dvaloped
eqipment at the        ares.
adjaceettown of                                     >
Pokl, with aeociatd t ed
power supply.



Est.     Present  Pro-
Popul.   Produc-  poed                           Prolect Coewionentu
Decription of SY t.o                Served   tion       Copsc.   Water Resouree
Teon           Source             Treatment            ("a00)    (i/ld)    (w3/d)     Studies          Rebabi I ttion        Exponelon
tS. Koforldbs  Demo River, of        Conventionl,          93.7     6,440    8.30    Non planned.         Rehabilit tlon of      Noe plane.
insdquaot yleld    8,400 eS/day.                                                         the weir, abutments
.n dry usather.                                                                          and g"to. RMhbl-
Subien end Okums                                                                          Itetile of diversion
Springs, 210                                                                             works at Sublen ond
mS/dy.                                                                                   C eOka" Springs, te
tres1nt plant,
tranominsion *nd
distribution "Ins
end booster station.
19.  Whiesks    Sevn dril led wells Trstnent for Iron    87.0          900    2.000   Hydro .logiccl    Rehabilltation of *11  Construction of one
(ftive In eOe)      removal.                                          study to           dr lled wells and      edditionol drilled
potential yield                                                       determine the      eaoceted eqIpmet. sell with equipment
2500 *a/day.                                                            ato yield of the RehabilItation of      end trseaosi.son
groundwater       the tretment plent, t      .in.
aquifer.          eleveted storag  a*nd
dltrlbution  Ines.
20. Asankee Abucsen River,           Conrvntional          2e0         650    1,100   Noe planned.        R h billttion of the Construction of a   r
lnadequaew yield    (packoge) plont,                                                     weir, river beok pro- tret a_t plant (660
In dry weather.     6O0 NS/day.                                                          tetles serks,          wi/day)  nd a nm
puping station,       welr and river swtwr
access road,          Intake coeduIt,
transmiesion em' 41.- trnmIlesion min (a
tributlon systems.    I) and distribution
-tn    estensten.
Inctalletion of new
pimping unite.
gort
0 I
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M aQ.-
ft" 



Est.     Present  Pro-
Pop.l.   Prodte-  posed                          Project Comooents
Description of st                   Served   tion       Capae.   Water Resource
Town           Source             Tretamt              ('000)    (8M/d)    (d3d)       Studies         Rhabilbittion          Espansion
21.  __sa       Denau River,         Conventlonal,         87.0      2,660     4,000   Compution of    Rebilittlon of the Node planned.
Inadequate yield    4,000 el/day.                                     the reliable       weir, river honk
In dry weather.                                                       yield ot DOn_u    protetilon works,
River nd          weir ga, Itakeo,
evaluation ot      access road. Re-
alternative        placement/repilf et
sorces.            Po; rehbiIItatilo
Of the treatmet
vlasn, transmission
ad distribution
=Ins.
NORTN RN CION
22. SIebi to    An impeunding        Conventional,         11.6        5C0       780   None pl nned.      Replacment of            evelegmant of
reserolr on the     1,200 .8/day                                      Regional ground-  chemce1 feed p m p    drilIled "Its to
Wanpo River,        (oeGrating time                                    water studies      and dltrlbution      ylld a mininum of
estimted average      lmited to 10                                    were recently      mains, In conjunction  400 P4/day, with
yield aw0 Na/day.   houro per day or                                   completed.         with an oe-going CIDA  seeloated pumping
650 d8/day).                                                         finenod rehebill-       nd tranmission
tation projet.       faeclities. Cons-
truction of distrib-
ution btorago.
28. Temal,    White Volta River,  Conventlonal,           180.0      6,S00   18,000    None planned.    Rebabilltation of the  Extension of the
estinetad yield     18,000 a/day.                                      (FfslbibIlity     trestamet plant,       distrit6len systm
80,000 .8/day.                                                         study of soure    transmission maIn,    to highly popuIae
developmt and   sd parts of the         ruvd areas.
systew expansion, distrlbutlon system
fund d by CIDA,   to be coordinated
Is onving).       with ongoing reebi-
litetlon ond.ra a CDA                           D rt
financed project.
- ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ *



Est.     Presnt  Pro-
Popul.   Produc-  poed                           Proiect Components
D"eCriotion of system               Servwd    tion      Crpac.   WetOr Resource
Town           Sourceo            Treatment            ('o00)    (e3/d)   (mA/d)      Studies          Rohobilitation         Expansion
UPPI EAST REGION
24. Bolgtanga  Yea reosrvolr         Conventional.         88.0      8,480   6.200     Mone planned.      Rebobillttin of the  Extenslon of the
(part of Ves        5,400 dal/dy.                                                        tranaission main,    dltributlon  yse
Irrligtlon                                                                              r.,. water Intahe       (1.8 km of 150 -
system), 6,9I 0 Nnd pumping                                                                                     Mins).
s/day.                                                                                    fa cilitie..
UPPER EST REGION
26. NH ele-    One drilled well,                            4.0         65      160    No" planned.       Rehabiltation Is       Constrw'iJon of a
Hape     estmated yield                                                                             ongoing under a CIDA   transmission min,
110 Mg/day.                                                                              financed project,      elevated sorae ed
Including equipping    distelbution maNs.
an additional well.
26. Tamu        Two drillod wells,                          6.6        100    380    None planned.        Rehabilitation is      Provision of an loc.       co
estimated yield                                                                           ongoing vudr a CIDA   poer gonerator,
26o m/day,                                                                                financed project;     construction oI a
Including quipping   tra misalon main and
an additional well.   distrlbutlon mains.
27.  Wa          Thirteen Drilled                          41.0      1,200   8,200    A niydrogelegical  Six pumping sttions  Construction of 0
wells, estimated                                                        tudy to estab-   would be               drilled wollI with
yield 1200 mS/day;                                                     llrh the ets       rehabilitated, and    asseel Otd pumping
thre new wells                                                         yelod of the       three nw on_ e        and tra_mission
under                                                                  aquifer nd to    constructed, In         facilities. Ces.-
constructlon,                                                          eomine the         parallel witb an      truetion of distrib-
*etimated ylold                                                       ftslbilIty of    ongolng CDDA 'finnc d  utlon mins (1.6 h).
500 d/day.                                                            aWuifer rPct&g. project.
fQ t
C-
0 - 



ANNEX 3-1
Attachment
-49                         Page 9 of 11
01;1M.             Is             }~I
-Ira    II  J
4                .3        'Su~~~~~i        Utri4 
fA~'~~1
T~~IjiY
3~~~~~~~~~



Est.     Proent  Pro-
Popul.   Produc-  posed                          Project Comonents
Description of System               Servrd    tion      Copsc.   Water Resource
Town           Source             Treatment            (000)   (mS/d)   (mAld)        Studie           Rehobilitation        Expansion
31. Kate-       Drilled wolln,                            Ne piped euply at   870    A stWdy of           Rehabilitation of 2   Construction of
Anleog    potential yleld                          present duo to                known aquifers to  drilled sells         elevated storge.
about 400 mS/day.                        failure of drilled            establish *fe      including electric
wel . Connected             yields and locate  P owr and trens-
population es-               well aItes for    mission facilitlos.
timated  t about             future develop-   Rehabilitation of
might thouand.               mnt.               eleted storage, and
distribution mlns.
J2.  Wehb       Dayl River,          Conventional          22.5        no    2,200    Study of the Doyl  Rehabilitation of the  Construction of 
12,000 as/day.      3400 ma/day.                                       River to eatb-   tretmnt plant,          weir and river
lckh Ito safe     pumping station and   training works;
yield In roltion  parts of the          Installation of
to the delgn of  distribution system.  pumping "quip  nt;
the pr.poaed                             expansion of the
intake welr.                             tratment plant to
cap. 2200 mS/day;        0
construction of a
distribution
reservoir and
exteneion of the
distribution syOtem.
88. Nkonyo       Drilled vell,                              2.9        120      1SO    Non planned.        None planned. Syatem  Distributlon systmu
Estimated yield                                                                           recently rebabill-    expansion (400 a).
exceed  160 *3/day.                                                                       toted under a UP
financed project.
84. Sovie        Drilled well,       Iron removal.          2.9        90       140    None planned.      Rehabilltaotin of the Noe planned.
aeo ma/day.                                                                               distribution systm,                               >
elevated storage  nd                               rt
treatment plant.                                 _
o :3
o    Lt



Est.      Present   Pro-
Popul.   Produc-   posed                          Project Compononts
Description of System                Served    tion       Capac.   Wator Resource
Town            Source             Treatment             ('000)    (m3/d)    (m3/d)      Studies           Rohabilitation         Expnnsion
WESTERN REOION
35.  Axim        Naein River,         ConvA*leonal,          17.0        450    1,100     Study of Meln       Rehobllitation of     Construction of a
460 Ms/day.          16O0 m/day.                                         River, to eatb-   pumping qulpmnt,         geir, pu_ing sttion
lioh Its Sofe      booster sttion,        and trnsmission
yiold, and of      treatment plant,       main.
other potential    Intake and ace
sources of water.  road.
86. Prete        One drilled  ell.    Pressure filters.      17.1         260   1,200    None planned.        Rehabilltatlon of      Provision and ins-
tronmleson syste_,  tallation of p_mp
pr esure filters,      and asocslted
strago reervolr,       equipmsnt In 2
ond pump houss.        existing (but unused)
wellIs.
37.  Seiondi-   Pro and Anunkwarl   Conventionsl            266.0      17,000  80,000     Study of pro-       In coordination with   Construction of             A
Toaoradi  Rivers.  (Yield of   plant at Daboasi,                                   posals to reduce   an ongoino project      distribution mains
Pro River Is         26,000 o3/day                                       the effects Of     financed by KfW;        *xeni1v.
limited by saline    (potential 27,800                                   solalo Intrusion   rehabilltatlon of:
Intruslon;           mS/day).  Conven-                                   in tho Pro Riwvr. tretnt and pumping
Anunkiurl Rlver Is  tional plant at                                                         facilties ot
impounded by         Inchaban, 9,090                                                        Daboosi; mechanical
Inchaban da).        md/day (potential                                                       qu_ipmt at tho dam
Combined estiated   17,200 ml/day).                                                        and pumping equipment
ylold 30,000                                                                                at Ilchaban;
da/day.                                                                                     tronmiselon mains;
booster stations; and
distribution mains.
-m I
,,  ft



ANNEX 3-2
- 52 -                       Page I of 8
REPUBLIC OF MA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Cost Suary
(US1 '000)
X of
Local    Foreign       Total      Base Cost
Rleplacemnt Plant A Equipment                 602       8,185       8,787          4X
Rehabilitation and Completion of Systems
Civil Works                               6,210      12,556      13,766
Fiquipmnt                                   662       3,661       4,818
Subtotal                                    6,872      16,206      28,076         27X
Expansion of Systas
Civil Works                                6,104     12,087      17,191
Equlpmsnt                                  2,718      4,812       7,080
Subtotal                                     ,622      16,399      24,221         28X
Restoring Inoperative Systems                 261       1,048       1,807          2X
BuilIdings
Workshops and Stores                        600       1,200       2,000
Training Centers                           1,286        801       1,687
Staff Housing                              2,250      1,500       8,750
Subtotal                                    4,386       8,001       7,87           9X
Essntial Equipmnt and Materials               410       7,840       7,750          9X
Meters                                        260         640        8e0           1X
Engineering                                  1,560      8,680       5,190          6X
Technical Studies                           1,470       1,470       2,940          aX
Technical Assistance                          8         5,254       5,604          7X
Staff Redeployment                          4,000           0       4,000          5X
Total Project Bass Cost                    27,948      56,020      6S,964        1OOX
Physical Contingencies                     4,111      9,762      18,872         1X
Price Contingencies                        7,840     17,824      25,164         29X
Total Project Costs                        89,694      85,106    125,000
r=                    - _



- 53 -                           ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 8
REPUBLIC OF MMANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Det ilu of Proj ct Costs
(US11 '000)
COWPONENT                   LOCAL    FOREIGN        TOTAL
***ASHANTI REGION
*TEPA
R plucoment Plant & Equipment               6.0        42.0       48.0
Rebab. and/or completion ot system 
Equipmnnt A mterials                      B.0         7.0       10.0
Civil works                               0.0        0.0         0.0
Expansion of *ystems
Equipmnt A materials                      8.0        46.0      65.0
Civil works                             147.0       226.0      878.0
*Subtota l TEPA                             164.0      320.0       484.0
oIKUMASI
Repiace mnt Plant & Equipment               0.0         0.0        0.0
R*hab. and/or completion of Syst            00.
Equipment & materials                     0.0        0.0         OO
Civil work*                               0.0        0.0         0.0
Expansion of sy                         1
Equipment A *.ternia,s                            O ,ltOO    2,0060  0
Civil works                               0           0.0        0.0
*Subottal KUMASI                          1,806.0    1,170.0    2,476.0
*EFIDUASE ASOKORE
R placemnt Plant A Equipment                8.0        83.0       s6.0
Rhiob. and/or completion of system
Equlpmnt A mterials                       0.0         0.0        0.0
CIvi1 works                               0.0        0.0         0.0
Expansion of systems
Equipmnt A mterials                       0.0        0.0         0.0
Civil works                              67.0       121.0      188.0
*Subtotal EFIDUASE ASOKORE                   70.0      154.0       224.0
*JUAEN
Replacement Plant A Equipmnt                0.0        0.0         0.0
Rehab. a*nd/or co pletion of sys-tem
Equipment & materials                     80          6.0        80
Civil works                               0.0        0.0         0.0
Expansion of sy
Equipment A materials                     9.0        67.0       26.0
Civil works                             1970        229.0      428.0
*Subtotal JUABEN                            209.0      291.0       600.0
*KONA
Replacement Plant I Equipment               6.0        22.0       27.0
Rehab. and/or completion of ayste6
Equipment A mterials                      7.0        8.0         9.0
Civil works                               7.0        00         3 .0
Expansion of syste
Equipmnt A mterials                       6.0        17.0       23.0
Civil works                              86.0        89.0      156.0
*Subtotal KONA                               87.0       164.0      251.0
MAMPWG
Replacement Plant & Equipment             104.0       808.0      712.0
Rehab. and/or complotion of syste
Equipmnt A matrials                       1.0        8 0         7.0
Civil works                              67.0       242.0      809.0
Expansion of syst0
Equipment A materials                    1.0           .0       69.0
Civil works                              180         6B 0       89.0
eSubtotal IMWON                             188.0      909.0    1,097.0



ANNEX 3-2
- 54 -                        Page 3 of 8
COiPONENT                    LOCAL    FOREION       TOTAL
*OBUASI
Replacment Plant A Equipment                22.0      122.0       144.0
Rehab. and/or couplotton of systen
Equipment A materials                     0.0         0.0         0.0
Civil works                               16.0       60.0        66.0
Expansion of systems
Equipmnt A materials                     214.0    1,168.0    1,382.0
Civil works                             093.0    1,18.0O    1,826.0
*Subtotal O0UASI                            941.0    2,476.0    8,417.0
***TOTAL ASHANTI REGION                   2,966.0    6,464.0    8,449.0
e*dBRONG AHAfO REGION
BERBEM
Replacement Plant A Equipment               22.0      119.0       141.0
Rehab. and/or complotion of system
Equipment A mterials                      6.0        18.0        24.0
Civil works                              177.0      118.0       290.0
Expansion of systms
Equlpmnt A materials                    222.0       687.0       869.0
Civil works                              78.0       296.0       872.0
*Subtotal EEREKUM                           600.0    1,188.0    1,686.0
DORMA AHENKRO
Replacement Plant A Equipment               0.0         0.0         0.0
Rehab. and/or completion of system
Equipment A mterlials                    28.0       110.0       188.0
Civil works                             799.0    1,086.0    1,885.0
Expansion of systems
Equipment A mterials                      0.0         0.0         0.0
Civil works                              41.0       180.0       171.0
*Subtotal DORMA AHENKRO                     868.0    1,276.0    2,144.0
*SUNYANI
Re placemnt Plant A Equipment              14.0        99.0       118.0
Rehnb and/or completion of system
Equipoent a materials                     14.0      187.0       161.0
Civil works                             218.0       418.0       626.0
Expansion of systems
Equipment A materlso                      2.0        60.0        62.0
Civl works                              870.0       919.0    1,289.0
*Subtotel SUNtANI                           618.0    1,628.0    2,241.0
eTECHIIMAN
Replu_ement Plant A Equipmnt                8.0        18.0        21.0
Rehab. and/or complotion of systems
Equipment A materials                     7.0        18.0        26 %
Civil works                              59.0       841.0       400.0
Expansion of system
Equipment A mterials                    486.0        68.0       564.0
Civil works                             684.0    1,982.0    2,666.0
*Subtotal TECHIMAN                         1,289.0    2,427.0    3,666.0
***TOTAL ORONG AHAFO REGION               8,220.0    6,517.0    9,787.0
**eCENTRAL REGION
*CAPE COAST
Replacement Plant A Equipment               18.0       89.0       102.0
Rehab. and/or completion of systems
Equipmnt A materials                     28.0       214.0       287.0
Civil works                             189.0       608.0       692.0
Expansion of system
Equipment A materials                     8.0        18.0        21.0
Civil works                             458.0    1,484.0    1,892.0
eSubtotel CAPE COAST                        686.0    2,268.0    2,944.0



ANNUX 3-2
55 -                          Page 4 of 8
CONPONENT                    LOCAL    FOREIGN       TOTAL
eOUtIWA
R pl cent Plant A Equipment                 0.0         0.0         0.0
and/or cocpletion of systems
Equipment   materials                     11.0       24.0        a5.0
Civil works                               88.0       99.0       181.0
Expansion of systems
Equipment & materials                     12.0       86.0        48.0
Civil works                                0.0        0.0         0.0
*Subtotal DUNKWA                             56.0       168.0       214.0
ASIKUUA
Replacement Plant A Equipment                8.0       75.0        88.0
Rehab. and/or completion of systems
Equipmnt A materials                       0.0        0.0         0.0
Civil works                                0.0        0.0         0.0
Expansion of systems
Equipment A mterials                      20.0      180.0       200.0
CivIl works                               61.0       96.0       147.0
sSuIbot l ASIKLUPA                           79.0       851.0       480.0
*KUWAKU
Re II acemnt Plant A Equipment             8U.0       274.0       810.0
R:hab. and/or completion of systemn
Equipment A materials                     67.0      266.0       888.0
Civil works                              709.0    1,799.0    2,606.0
Expansion of systems
Equipment A materials                     0.0         0.0         0.0
Civil works                               0.0         0.0         0.0
*Sub0to I KJWNYAKU                          812.0    2,889.0    8,161.0
*"TOTAL CENTRAL REGION                     1,688.0    6,106.0    6,789.0
* EASJERN REGION
AIKIM SWEDRU
Replae ment Plant A Equipment               0.0         0.0         0.0
Rehab. and/or completion of systems
Equipment A mterials                       2.0       18.0        16.0
Civil works                               4.0         9.0        18.0
Expansion of system
Equipmnt A m*terials                      0.0         0.0         0.0
Clvil works                               0.0         0.0         0.0
sSubtotal AKIM SIEDRU                         6.0        22.0        28.0
*ANIL BOSO
R elacoment Plant A Equipment               0.0         0.0         0.0
Rehab. and/or completion of systems
Equipment A "terials                      10.0       67.0        77.0
Civil works                               78.0      144.0      m2.0
Expanslon of systems
Equipmnt A materials                       9.0       87.0        48.0
Civil works                              49.0        62.0       111.0
*Subtotal ANW 3OSO                          146.0       810.0       46e.0
*KOFORIDUA
Replacement Plant & Equipment               0.0         0.0         0.0
Reb. and/or completion of systems
Equipmnt  materials                       6.0        26.0        82.0
Civil works                              622.0    1,444.0    1,966.0
Expansion of systems
Equipmnt & mterials                        0.0        0.0         0.0
Civil works                                0.0        0.0         0.0
*Subtotal KOFORIDUA                         526.0    1,470.0    1,996O



ANNEX 3-2
- 56 -                           Page 5 of 8
COIPON1NT                    LOCAL    FOREIGN       TOTAL
*WAKAW
R  lacsment Plant A Equlpmnt                81.0       59.0       140.0
R aib. and/or completion of systems
Equlpment A materials                      0.0        0.0         0.0
Civil works                              56.0        02.0       115.0
Expansion of systeo
Equipmnt A materials                      6.0        48.0        56.0
Civil works                               10.0       11.0        21.0
*Subtotal NKAUKAW                           162.0       180.0       882.0
ASAMANKESE
Replacement Plant A Equipmnt                0.0         0.0         0.0
Rehab. and/or completion of system
Equipmnt & materials                      14.0       58.0        67.0
Civil works                              68.0       101.0       164.0
Expansion of systems
Equipmnt A materials                      0.0         0.0         0.0
Civil works                              206.0      916.0    1,122.0
'Subtotel ASAMANKESE                        288.0    1,070.0    1,863.0
*NSAWAM
R placement Plant A Equipmnt                48.0      209.0       262.0
Rehab. and/or completion o systems
Equipmnt & materials                      11.0       81.0        42.0
Civil works                              540.0      647.0    1,087.0
Expansion of systems
Equipmnt & materials                      0.0         0.0         0.0
Civil works                               0.0         0.0         0.0
uSubteotal NSAWAM                           694.0       787.0    1,881.0
***TOTAL EASTERN REGION                    1,709.0    8,8B9.0    5,648.0
***NORTHERN REGION
BIMBILA
Replacement Plant A Equipment               10.0       20.0        80.0
Rehab. and/or completion of systems
Equipmnt A materials                      0.0         0.0         0.0
Clvil works                               6.0        26.0        84.0
Expansion of systems
Equipment a materials                      7.0       87.0        44.0
Civil works                              144.0      110.0       264.0
eSubtotsl BISIILA                            169.0      198.0       82.0,
*TAMALE
R placcment Plant & Equlpment               40.0      860.0       400.0
Rhub. and/or completion of systems
Equipment A materials                     50.0      210.0       260.0
Civil works                              80.0       450.0       480.0
Expansion of systaem
Equipmet A materials                     856.0      560.0       906.0
Civil works                              444.0      660.0    1,094.0
*Subtotal TAMALE                            920.0    2,220.0    8,140.0
***TOTAL NORTHERN REGION                   1,089.0    2,418.0    8,502.0
*eeUPPER EAST RLOGION
*BOLQATANGA
Replacement Plant A Equipment                6.0       17.0        22.0
Rehab. and/or completion of systems
Equipment A materials                     0.0         0.0         0.0
Civil works                                7.0        5.0        12.0
Expansion of systems
Equipmnt A materials                       1.0       10.0        11.0
Civil works                               21.0       66.0        87.0
*Subtotal EOLGATANGA                         84.0        98.0       182.0
**eTOTAL UPPER EAST REGION                   84.0        98.0       182.0



- 57 -
ANINE 3-2
Page 6 of 8
COPONENT                    LOCAL    FOREIGN        TOTAL
***UPPER WEST REGION
IHAMALE HAPA
Replace nt Plant A Equipment                0.0         0.0        0.0
Rebab. and/or completon of systemn
Equipment & materials                     0.0         0.0        0.0
Civil works                               0.0         0.0        0.0
Expansion of system
Equipment & materials                     0.0         0.0        0.0
Civil works                              14.0        46.0       60.0
sSubtotel HIALE HAPA                         14.0       46.0        60.0
oTUYU
R elacement Plant A Equipment               0.0         0.0        0.0
Rehab. and/or completion of systme
Equipment A "mterials                     1.0         6.0        7.0
CivIl works                               0.0         0.0        0.0
Expansion of system
EquIpent 8 m*terials                      0.0        0.0         0.0
Civil works                              17.0        55.0       72.0
*Subtot4l TMU                                16.0       61.0        79.0
*VA
Replacement Plant A Equipment               0.0        0.0         0.0
Rehab. and/or completion of system
Equipment A materials                     0.0         0.0        0.0
Civil works                               7.0         3.0       10.0
Expansion of systems
Equipmnt & m*terials                     10.0       8U.0       101.0
CivIl works                             299.0       525.0      824.0
*Subtotal WA                                824.0      611.0       935.0
"*TOTAL UPPER WEST REGION                   358.0       718.0    1,074.0
*"VOLTA REGION
dO
Replacement Plant A Equipment               2.0        18.0       15.0
Rehab. and/or completion of syste          7
Equipmnt A materials                    87C 0    2,B30.0    2,70C 0
CivIl works                           1,0B9.0         7.0    1,046.0
Expansion of systoem
Equipmnt A mnterials                      0.0        0.0         0.0
Civil works                             856.0    1,087.0    1,448.0
eSubtotal N0                              1,772.0    8,487.0    5,209.0
AFLAOENU
Replacement Plant & Equipment              11.0        80.0       41.0
Rehab. and/or completion of system
Equipmnt A materials                                 0 0         0.0
Civil works                              64.0       272.0      868.0
Expansion of *ystem
Equipmnt A m*terials                      8.0        18.0       26.0
Civi I works                              8.0        10.0       13.0
eSubtotel AFLAO-DENU                        106.0      880.0       486.0
*tAYAKO
Replacement Plant A Equipment               1.0        10.0       11.0
R ab, and/or completion of systems
Equipment A materials                     8.0         2.0        5.0
CivIl works                              19.0        61.0       60.0
Expanslon of systems
Equipmnt a mterials                       0.0         0.0        0.0
Civi l works                              0.0         0.0        0.0
eSubtotal ANYAKO                             28.0       78.0        96.0



- 58 -                           ANNEX 3-2
Page 7 of 8
COMPONENT                    LOCAL    FOREIGN         TOTAL
*KETA-ANLOOA
Reple >ment Plant A Equipment                12.0        79.0        91.0
Rehab. and/or completion of systems
Equipment A materials                      0.0          0.0         0.0
Civil works                                61.0       240.0       291.0
Expansion of syst es
Equipment A materials                      0.0          0.0         0.0
Civil works                                66.0        89.0       144.0
*Subtota8  KETA-ANLOCA                        118.0       408.0       626.0
*HOHOE
Replacement Plant A Equipment                29.0       228.0       252.0
Rhab. and/or completion of systems
Equipment A materials                       2.0        19.0        21.0
CiviI works                               191.0       718.0       904.0
Expanslon of systems
Equlpment A materials                      0.0         0.0          0.0
Civil works                               176.0      428.0        598.0
*Subtotal HOHOE                              897.0      1,878.0    1,776.0
*NONYA
R placemont Plant A Equipment                 0.0         0.0         0.0
Rehab. and/or completion of systems
Equipment A materials                      0.0          0.0         0.0
Civil works                                0.0          0.0         0.0
Expansion of systems
Equipment A materials                      0.0         0.0          0.0
Civil works                                6.0         18.0        24.0
*Subtota I NKONYA                               6.0        18.0        24.0
*SOVIE
Raple  ment Plant A Equipment                 0.0         0.0         0.0
Rehab and/or completion of systems
Equipment & materials                      2.0         11.0        18.0
Civil works                                18.0        60.0       68.0
Expansion of systems
Equipment A materials                       0.0         0.0         0.0
Civil works                                0.0         0.0          0.0
*Subteotal SOVIE                              20.0        61.0        81.0
***TOTAL VOLTA REGION                       2,442.0    5,705.0    8,147.0
***WESTERN
*AXIM
Replacement Plant A Equipment                88.0       202.0       240.0
Rehab. and/or completion of systems
Equipment A materlols                       8.0        29.0        87.0
Civil works                                6.0         12.0        18.0
Expans;on of systems
Equipment & materials                      16.0        47.0        68.0
Civil works                               184.0       459.0       648.0
*Subtetal AXIM                                262.0       749.0    1,001.0
.SEKONDI-TAKORADI
Replacement Plant A Equipment                94.0       412.0       506.0
Rehab and/or completion of systems
Equipment A materials                      12.0        48.0        55.0
Civil works                             1,174.0      ,7568.0    4,980.0
ExpansIon of systems
Equipment A matorials                       0.0         0.0         0.0
Civil works                               282.0       846.0    1,108.0
uSubtotal SEKONDI-TAKORADI                  1,542.0    5,057.0    6,599.0



- 59 -
ANNEK 3-2
Page 8 of 8
COUPONENT                   LOCAL    FOREIGN       TOTAL
PRESTEA
Replace_mt Plant A Equipment               0.0         0.0        0.0
Rehab. and/or completion of systes
Equipment A materials                    0.0         0.0        0.0
Civil works                              47.0       28.0       76.0
Expansion of systes
Equipment & materials                     7.0       26.0 03.0
Civil works                              0.0         0.0        0.0
*Subtotal PRESTEA                           64.0        64.0      108.0
***TOTAL WESTERN REGION                   1,849.0    6,860.0    7,708.0
ALL REGIONAL WORKS BASE COST             16,296.0   86,740.0   61,086.0
REST. INOP. SYSTEMS A IMMEDIATE ACT.PLAN    261.4    1,046.6    1,807.0
BUILDINGS
Workshops A Stores                        800.0    1,200.0    2,000.0
Training Centers                        1,286.0      301.0    1,687.0
Staff Housing                           2,260.0    1,600.0    8,750.0
SUBWOTALS BUILDINGS                      4,8360    3,001.0    7,837.0
ESSENTIAL EqUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
Vehicles                                  150.0    2,860.0    8,000.0
Spare Prtu                                50.0       960.0    1,000.0
Computers                                 20.0       280.0      800.0
Communication Equipment                   10.0       240.0      260.0
Chemicals                                160.0    2,U49.7    2,999.7
Lab. Equipment                             10.0      140.0      160.0
Workshop & Storms Equipment * Tools       20.0        80.0       60.0
SUBTOTAL ESSENTIAL EqUIPMENT& MATERIALS    410.0    7,389.7    7,749.7
METERS                                     260.0       640.0      800.0
ENGINEERING                               1,560.0    8,680.0    5,190.0
TECHNICAL STUDIES
Hydrologic Studies                      1,020.0      460.0    1,480.0
Accra Sewag Disposal FeasibilIty Study    80.0       100.0      130.0
Engineering Oesign for Tamale Expansion    180.0     220.0      860.0
Reductlon of Unaccounted-for Water        120.0      640.0      660.0
Tariff Study                              20.0        70.0       90.0
Revaluation of Assets                     160.0       80.0      280.0
SUBTOTAL TECHNICAL STUOIES                1,470.0    1,470.0    2,940.0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                       350.0    6,264.0    6,604.0
STAFF REDEPLOYMENT                       4,000.0         0.0    4,000.0
TOTAL PROJECT BASE COST                  27,943.4   68,020 8   86,968.7
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                  4,110.7    9,761.7   18,872.6
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                     7,839.6   17,824.4   26,164.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      89,898.7   05,10 .4  125,000.1
_ _m                   =..



Om.xc o e1-
Tout C    @218 Ceati.ou.cle             am1                         MA                   bf2msC     - A             C    .l     . 31          C2._e.  - e_
LO1M.   FOIEII       MOAL    LOCAL    .-E       TaTM.   LOCAL.             TOAL    1070               ?Tom.   LOCAL.  11101117WM.   LOCAL            Pi.      TU.
R.b.IfitH16... NW E g...l...     of
tiatr ysas(b _t   elo  S
Ashanti                              4.80.?   0.8t1.?   12.8m.8   4,84.?              4.840.                        0.0                         0.0           0.811-.?  S.Ul1.                       0.0
S...o lWOf                           4,860.0   10.0m.8   18,086.4   8.024.6          81.60611                       0.0                        0.0            0.19R1   6        .15.    .044  8,770.4  6.7103
c..tno                               2.8140    7,618.0   10.3110.?   1..57.           1.27.8                        0.0   I.3.61  7818.6  *.0?8.2                         0.0                        0.10
66.6w                                2.31.1    8,31.6    6,318.0                          0.0                       0.0                        0.0                        0.0  8.11.8  11.1111.6  6.31.0
Ihf'tMe                              1,70.?   I.71.6    8.414.0                          0.0                        0.0                        0.00. 1,0. 87.    .46
t U                                       .    I rp       u p.   ao.ote"                                             .                           . amal,                  o-o.  Iwair-  i.rim.s  se.acm
1b9' but                     ~~~~~~~~~~          ~~~91.1  18.0  312.1          0.0                        0.0                        0.0                        0.0    511.11  3111.0    9102
lne. V.0                               660.1   1.3181.81   1,631.8                       0.0                        0.0                        0.0                        0.0    660.1  1.18112  1.601
tvalt                                8.778,0    0.7m0.2   12.80.1                        0.0                        0.0                        0.0                        0.0   m.t.9  S.6.2 .1.1e11.1
vsat*m                               2.610-2    8.9011- 2,11.666.?   1,480.1          1.4101                        0.0   1.41 ,6.  10.e.o                                0.0                        0.0
Rest. 8..p. evtoo.. S famd1.t Act. P1..   86.1    1,4.46.   1610.6      310.2            86.8             1.446.C  1446.0                        0.0                        0.0                        0.0
Vark    sod stop"                    1.31.6    1,0s.2 1    1.74 0                        0.0                        0.0                         0.0                        0.0  1.0606  1.31.2  8.740.?
Tiw).2.. Cembee                      1,7m.8       406.0    1,148.2   1.8              I,8.8               4104.0    An.3                       0.0                         0.0                       00 
Staff m..                             2e.1    1,061.1    8.23.2   1,68.0                 7.                         0.0 I                       0..0                      0.0  1.4o2, _.0.1    81.o1 8
Ea_.lp.mos M"d bte,i. I.                                                                                                                         0.e
8182a2..                               810.4    8,906.8    4.040.?                       0.0                        0.0                         0.0                       0.0    31.4  8.31.3  4.043.? 
Sps,* ft."                              66.0    1.1M.4    1.8.21                          0.0                       0.0                         0.0                        0.0    66.6  I.56. e..oo.o
c..t.,.                                 24.0      866.0     871.7    21.0                26.0             844.4  0On.$                          0.0                       0.0                        0.0
Coamml cles  Wis.t                      18.0      811.2     94.8                          0.0                       0.0                         0.0                       0.0    1s.0    8111.    96.1
Cba.l"Is                               18.8    8,448.8    8.9131.6    3181.81           18.$            3.448.S  8,86.8                         0.0                        0.0                       0.0
Lob. is.p.m.t                           18.0      104.0     W0.0       180.0             18.9             104.0   116.0                         0.0                        0.0                       0.0
V.,184. A16..... bqui...t A, TS..S .17.           41.1       66.7                         0.0                       0.8                         0.0                        0.0 I.1.    41.2 o0.o
Nlta. 8e66, .8                                     7M.6    1.12                            0.0                        0.0                        0.0                        0.0    866.    7-..   1.o.2
bgl.wrIn                               2,15.8 .   4,o4611.0    7,070.8                     0.0  S,15.8  4,046.   ?.n'.                            0.0                                                  0.0
T.18a2@sI 66.42..                      1,417.4    1.97.61    8.,005.8                      0.0  1'.7.4  ,0.    ,.S0.0                                                       0.0                        0.0
Tootolsel Ameletso                      3SS.2    ?.419.11   6.1876                        0.0     1.1  7,9.8  *6.&W.6                           0.0                        0.0                        0.0
6Buff bodologaot                       4,650.0       0.0    4.1191.0   4.8880           4,8.                           .0                        0.0                        0.0                        0.0
7..                                    31.        ,164 16001    33.                .   066.    ,6.   0,502,6.   10761,0.  10,466.                         0.0 14.,61.0 1487.0s  ;83.088O       .  4711.4



- 61 -                     ANNEX 3-4
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
GWSC's Proiect and Construction ManaRement Unit
Obiectives of the Proiect and Construction Management Unit
1.        As a measure to ensure timely and effective project
implementation, GWSC proposes to reorganize its Plannrng and Development
Department to substantially strengthen the existing Project and
Construction Management Unit (PCMU) which is responsible for implementing
and supervising GWSC's investment program (Attachment 1).
2.        Although GWSC's primary responsibility is the development,
maintenance and operation of water supply systems in Ghana, it lacks
sufficient manpower resources in terms of experienced managers,
administrators, engineers and other technical staff. Perhaps the most
critical deficiency is the severe shortage of senior technical staff-with
experience in managing and coordinating large projects. The proposed Water
Sector Rehabilitation Project (WSRP), will require higher than average
levels of input in management and coordination skills since it is dispersed
over a wide geographical area, is expected to be financed by several
international lending agencies each of which has its own implementation
approach and procurement rules, and it encompasses a broad range of
different activities and components.
3.        Thus, the existing PCMU would require external support to enable
it to effectively and successfully implement GWSC's proposed investment
program. GWSC proposes to obtain such support by appointing a Project
Management Consultant (PMC) to provide a small group of specialists who,
together with counterparts from GWSC would form an effective team to manage
engineering, economic, management and financial aspects of the WSRP, to
supervise cor.oultants engaged in project preparation, design and
supervision of construction, and provide on-the-job training of GWSC
counterpart staff. The experience that these staff members would gain
during the implementation period, would create a strong PCMU providing an
effective unit to manage and construct projects forming GWSC's future
development program.
4.        One of GWSC's high priorities is to complete the process of
decentralization which has already begun.  In order to enhance the
operating autonomy of the regions, it is necessary to improve the financial
viability of each region and to strengthen management information systems
to enable GWSC management to monitor performance. To this end, the PMC
would develop and implement sound overall financial management systems
which would meet GWSC's corporate requirements, but which can be adequately
and efficiently supported by the regions.
5.        A parallel objective is the improvement of operation and
maintenance procedures in the regions, with particular focus on the 37
systems that are to be rehabilitated.



- 62 -                     ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 4
PCMU Functions and Staffing
6.        The PCMU would be well informed on management, engineering,
financial, administrative and economic aspects of water supply and
sanitation development work. Its staff would have considerable experience
in these areas, especially in project management and coordination. In view
of the level of external aid to the water supply sector in Ghana, and its
importance to GWSC's development program, PCMU staff would also need to be
familiar with donor agencies' practices and procedures, particularly in
relation to procurement, reporting, finance and accounting.
7.        The PCMU would be responsible for both the planning and the day-
to-day m^nagement of implementation of projects forming GWSC's development
program.  The unit would need to be fully informed on GWSC's development
program and implementation schedules, as well as details of program
financing arrangements.
8.        The PCMU would be responsible for project accounting and
maintaining accounts and cost records, and would be responsible for
managing the project disbursement accounts.
9.        The PCMU would ensure that it is well informed on existing water
and sanitation systems and their operation and maintenance and would be
responsible for liaison between GWSC headquarters and regional management
on matters relating to ongoing development projects in specific areas and
on those operational aspects of the water systems which interface with
development work.
10.       Feasibility reports, water resource reports and other technical
and financial reports and/or data, relating to GWSC's development program,
prepared by GWSC staff and consultants would be reviewed by the PCMU, which
would then present its findings and recommendations to GWSC's management.
The PCMU assisted by the PMC, would prepare documents for the procurement
of consultants' services and would review tender documents (prepared by
other consultants) for procurement of equipment, materials and
construction. The PCMU would obtain the required clearances for such
documents, review consultants' tender evaluation reports and draft
contracts.
11.       The PMC would establish an effective information system to allow
the PCMU to monitor progress of the various project elements and to report
to GWSC's management and subsequently to donor agencies, on the progress in
relation to planned project implementation schedules.
12.       The PCMU would also be responsible for supervising and
monitoring the work of all consultants involved in implementing GWSC's
development program. Where consultants are not employed for supervision of
construction, such supervision would normally be carried out by regional
staff and would be monitored by the PCMU.
13.       A major part of the PCHU's efforts would be directed toward
coordinating the work of consultants and contractors and liaising with
donors and with GWSC's headquarters and regional departments.



- 63 -                     ANNEX 3-6
Page 3 of 4
PCMU Staffinx by GWSC
14.       The number of staff allocated to the PCNU will vary with the
magnitude and characteristics of the projects for which it is responsible,
and, to lesser extent, with the number and level of GWSC staff under
training. The following list of staff is based on GWSC's current proposed
development program, assuming average expenditures of about US$20 million
per year over 0:e next five to seven years:
Co-Manager, PCMU          A civil or sanitary engineer with
experience in project management, and
in operation and maintenance of water
supply .ystems.
Engineers (sanitary or   Four to six engineers with experience
public health,            in sanitary engineering (water and
or civil)                  sanitation) and preferably in
construction supervision and/or
operations.
Engineers (electrical    Two to four engineers with experience
and/or mechanical)        in water supply systems, preferably in
construction supervision.
Quantity Surveyors        Two, with experience in water supply
and sanitation projects.
Accountants                Two qualified accountants with
experience in public utilities work and
financing by foreign donors.
Economists/Financial      Available to PCMU on a part-time basis
Analysts/Legal Adviser   as and when needed.
Training Specialist       Available on a part-time basis (202 of
year) to plan and coordinate operations
and maintenance and regional financial
management training.
Other Specialists -       Part-time, as and when needed.
hydrologists,
geologists, soil and
dam experts.
Operations Assistants    Two, with experience in computerized
systems such as management information,
CPM, PERT, etc.
Procurement Clerks        Two, with experience in local
procedures for clearing procurement
documents and procedures for expediting
the delivery of equipment and materials



- 64 -                     IJNEX 3-4
Page 4 of 4
through port and customs authorities in
Ghana.
Accounts Clerks           Three to four, preferably familiar with
project accounting for foreign donors.
Secretaries and Word      Two to four.
Processors
Other administrative      As needed.
staff, drivers, etc.
Staff Provided by PMC
15.       The Project Manager who would lead the PMC group would have
considerable experience in managing engineering projects of a similar size
and complexity, preferably in the Africa region or in other similar
developing countries.
16.       An important objective of the WSRP is the improvement of
operation and maintenance of the 37 systems that are to be rehabilitated
and throughout GWSC generally. Two members of the PMC group would,
therefore, be experienced in establishing operation and maintenance
procedures and in training staff in the implementation of such procedures.
17.       The PMC would review existing financial systems and procedures
in the regions and recommend modified or new systems as necessary for
billing, collection, budgeting, management information and general
accounting. Two financial specialists would be responsible for
implementing the systems in all of the regions and training regional staff
in their use.
18.       Specialists on short-term assignments would include a financial
specialist for a period of about six months, to establish the procedures
and systems to be used by the PCMU accounting group, including those for
project accounting, monitoring the status of contractual and financing
commitments and processing payments to consultants, contractors and
suppliers. A computer specialist would also be provided on a short-term
(about six months) assignment to train GWSC staff in project progress
monitoring procedures and the information system developed by the PMC. The
PMC may provide other specialists, depending on project needs. Such needs
could arise in connection with dams, hydrological or geological work or in
connection with soil stabilization or in other areas.
19.       The scope of work to be carried out by the PMC is detailed in
Attachment 2 to this Annex.
AF4IN
May 1989



- 65 -                   ANNEX 3-4
Attachment 1
GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF PCMU
Managing Director
T.B.F. Acquah
Deputy Managing Director             Deputy Managing Director
(Operations)              _(Fin.lAdmin.)
E.F. Quashie                         L.K. Kwakuyie
Director of Planning and                Management
Development         ------
Project Manager (PMC)
E.K.Y. Dovlo                    Co-manager (GWSC)
Engineering                         Finance & Administration
4-6 Sanitary Engineers (GWSC)              2   Fin. Specialists (PMC)
2-4 Mech.IElec. Engineers (GWSC)           2  Accountants (GWSC)
2   Quantity Surveyors (GWSC)              1   Computer Specialist (PMC)
2   O&M Specialists (PMC)                  2-4 Secys. & W. Processing
Short-term Specialists:                    Assts. (GWSC/Other)
(GWSC/PMC/Other)                    2   Computer Oper. Assts.
Hydrologists                             (GWSC/Other)
Geologists                           3-4 Accounts Clerks (GWSC)
Soil Experts                        2   Procurement Clerks (GWSC)
Dam Experts                          *  Other Staff (Clerks,
Drivers, etc.) (GWSC)
*   Short-term Specialists
(GWSC/PMC/Other):
Economist
Financial Analyst
Training Specialist
Legal Adviser



ANNEX 3-4
- 66 -                     Attachment 2
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proiect Management Consultant - Scope of Work
1.        The following scope of work for the Project Management
Consultant (PMC) is formulated on a project specific basis in the context
of the Project and Construction Management Unit's (PCMU's) overall
functions as described in this Annex (paras 6-13). However, the PMC will
develop a fuller version of the duties of the PCMU in the proposal which
would be further supplemented in an inception report (paras 3 and 4).
2.        The Project Manager (PM), would head the PMC group, and with his
GWSC counterpart, the Co-manager, PCMU, would be directly responsible to
GWSC's Managing Director (MD) for the implementation of GWSC's investment
program. The PM and the Co-manager of the PCMU would be supported by the
other specialists provided by the PMC (paras 17-18) and by the GWSC staff
members of the PCMU (para 14). The specific duties and tasks of the PMC
group, under the PM, fall into three categories as described in the
following paragraphs.
(a) Physical Components of the Project
(i)  Advise GWSC's Managing Director on progress and all matters
pertaining to the investment program.
(ii) Prepare information and recommendations for review and
decision making by GWSC's Managing Director and the Board
of GWSC on project matters and issues.
(iii)  Provide teelnical assistance and continuous on-the-job
training to the PCMU staff to enable the unit to
effectively implement the investment program with the PMC's
assistance and, thereafter, to effectively implemer.t GWSC's
ongoing development program.
(iv) Review and recommend changes as needed to the
organizational structure of the PCMU, interview GWSC staff
who are seconded to the unit, allocate respoitsibilities and
formulate an on-the-job training program for the MD's
approval and for subsequent implementation.
(v)  Establish an information system designed to rapidly convey
site progress data from the regions to the PCMU in a format
suitable for computerized progress monitoring and
reporting.
(vi) Monitor the work of the Consultant responsible for the
Immediate Action Program and report to the MD on progress.



- 67 -                     ANNEX 3-4
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 4
(vii) Review and assist in the evaluation of proposals for final
engineering design of the Water Sector Rehabilitation
Project (WSRP) and prepare an evaluation report for GWSC
and IDA; assist GWSC in negotiating a contract for this
work and prepare contract documents.
(viii)  Assist GWSC to supervise and administer the contract at
(vii); evaluate the Consultants' reports; advise GWSC on
issues to enable GWSC to select the best alternative
methods, courses of action or other options identified by
the Consultants.
(ix) Assist GW8SC to prepare requests for proposals, to evaluate
proposals, negotiate contracts and supervise consultants
for: Accra Sewerage Feasibility Study; Engineering Design
for Tamale Expansion; Reduction of Unaccounted-for Water; a
Tariff Study and the Revaluation of GWSC's Fixed Assets.
(x) Assist GWSC to supervise and administer the contracts at
(ix); evaluate the Consultants' reports: advise GWSC on
issues to enable GWSC to select the best courses of action
and best alternative methods.
(xi) Coordinate the preparation of Consultants' reports,
progress reports, and other material on the WSRP, for
submission to those international lending agencies
participating in the project.
(xii)  Assist GWSC to maintain project accounts in sufficient
detail to provide at all times current information on
project costs, expenditures, contractual and financing
commitments and cash flow projections both in the aggregate
and by region.
(xiii)  Scrutinize claims and certify payments by G1.4C andlor
funding agencies to the Consultants.
(xiv)  Assist GWSC to process all sisbursement applications in
accordance with the requirements of the various donors.
(xv) Coordinate work on the WSRP with other projects being
implemented in parallel (e.g. the AfDB-financed ATHA
rehabilitation/expansion project and the CIDA-financed
rehabilitation project in the three northern regions),
particularly in relation to common aspects of these
projects such as reduction of unaccounted-for water and
metering.
(b) Improvement of Regional Financial Systems
(i) Review systems for billing and collection, management
information (including cost accounting), budget and general



ANNEX 3-4
- 68 -                     Attachment 2
Page 3 of 4
ledger in that order of priority. Review GWSC's existing
practices and procedures and redesign/replace them as
necessary. Recommendations for modifying/replacing systems
should be region specific and should be appropriate to the
operating characteristics of the individual regions.
Systems should be standardized from region to region to the
extent that individual regional requirements will allow.
Careful consideration should be given to whether systems
should be manual or computerized. However, computerized
systems should be limited to those which can be run on
individual (stand alone/non-networked) personal computers
with manual interface/consolidation.
(ii) Implement the new or modified systems following discussion
with and clearance by GWSC management. Implementation of
new systems should be carried out in phases, reflecting
both the order of priority of the various systems (para i)
and allowing for implementing each type of system on a
pilot basis in a small number of regions before
establishing the system corporation-wide. The Consultant's
proposed work program should indicate the phasing of each
system by region.
(iii) In conjunction with improvements to the billing and
collection system, develop a program of selective metering
to effectively utilize available equipment and staff
resources so as to maximize revenue to GWSC.
Siv)  Review the number, levels, qualification and assignments of
finance staff in each of the regions and make specific
recommendations for changes required to obtain the optimal
staffing profile.
(v) Develop and implement, with the support and assistance of
GWSC's Training Department, a training program for regional
finance staff.
(c) Improvement of Regional Operation and Maintenance Procedures
(i) Review and evaluate existing operation and maintenance (O
and M) procedures, manuals and other relevant material for
each of the 37 water systems.
(ii) Formulate appropriate 0 and H methods and procedures for
each of the 37 water systems and review proposals with GWSC
management. Maintain standardized procedures across
systems to the extent possible.
(iii)  Prepare 0 and M manuals for the approved methods and
procedures, including recommended levels of maintenance
tools, parts and personnel.



- 69 -                     ANNEX 3-4
Attachment 2
Page 4 of 4
(iv) Train GWSC staff in the specific 0 and M methods and
procedures for each system, observe results and modify
manuals and procedures as necessary.
Schedule of Reports
3.        The PMC is required to prepare and submit to GWSC 15 copies of
each of the following reports for circulation to funding agencies and
Government departments as notified by GWSC:
Inception                 -    One to two months after
mobilization.
Organization structure   -    Four months after mobilization;
training Drogram for GWSC staff in
PCMU.
Information system        -    Four months after mobilization.
Progress                  -    At monthly intervals throughout
project, with summary reports at
the end of each quarter.
Contents of Reports
4.        Inception and progress reports will be brief and concise.  The
inception report will identify any major inconsistencies in the scope of
work or difficulties ins PCMU staffings project planning and/or scheduling;
or any factors which may affect the progress of the assignment. A brief,
concise report format for monthly and quarterly progress reports will be
prepared by the Consultants and agreed with GWSC during contract
negotiations. The report format will be designed to provide means of
closely monitoring and forecasting construction costs.
AF4IN
May 1989



REPUBUC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHADIUTATION PROJECT
Impln        on Sohedule
IDA FI8CAL YEAR
PROJECT COMPONENT
1990          1991           1992          1993           1994          1995           1996          1997
and Equimt                                                  miii    sigma..    seams,.    sismisam   mimigam.   m_imima
Peablftatlon and/or-mm                                 m                                  
OMGmof Systernsm-
RwD                 Symt ___.  __                                      m___   ._.                           s.._m
Expandion M                                                               _ -  m
mes       siam@| _.,@.  ..*_..s.msii        ||  m,.a . a_mesm_
Accr S                                              _        __e
Supply of ialsEquipment                                   - _ - _   _- *____                                                                      E            o
and  aeil-
HydrologI  tdo                                  iec
EngieeringDesign- Taniae                                             maaessaemsame
TariffS8tudy                            .............                                                         _a  lRnod E_on Son
I    -d  dswyo EqiAmn and Maai
CM]$ ChWodmud lsalr_mn
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _   _I_                                                                            I             Il
Af4N~~~~ -                                                                                                                                         L
Oe1m8



-  71 -                                    ANNEX  3-6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Disbursement Profile
286-
z     24
z
!    22-
20 
e     18-
14-
12 -
*  10 
|3     8X
6-
a  2-
0*
90              92               94               95               98
FISCAL YEAR
PROJECT DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
batty~ ~~~~h iutiu
iait              Isimtst           EiSP2
FYW
6~~tuim  ~~0.00
Noch
ptl r               4.                7
Daia                2.5              ,0
Welk                34                14
Fir.                4,3              17
Iaptav              $5.0             23
Machat              7.0              29
._ch                9.3
tur                 9E.5             39
FM9
SWt.im             100 e43
Macam     Ifti             ~~~~~~~47
Inch               13.0              n
FM9
Maptaip       ~~15.5            62
Natch              te.1              73
VW'                 19.5              78
Saptaat           220.3              el
Mac my             21.0              34
Narch                6
Sapteihv           22.9              92
Ibcaim             23.5              94
INoch              23.9              90
agn                24.               9
FM9
Macaim                              (00
Et'           as:oF      10



- 72 -ANNX 3-7
RIPU3LIC 0F gHANA
WASER SZCTOR REHAB8LISAT_ON PRoJECT
Monitoring Indicators
1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
(a) Production (billion gallons)  33.4   32.0   31.8   32.9   35.6   39.1   41.9   42.7   42.7
(b) Sales (billion gallons)        17.0   17.1   17.9   19.1   21.3   23.4   25.1   25.6   25.6
(c) Non-revenue water (%)           49     47     44      42     40     40      39     39      38
(d) Revenues (i billion)            5.0    6.3    8.2    9.5   11.3   13.0   14.6   15.6   16.4
(e) Collections (0 billion)         4.6    5.8    7.6    8.7   10.3   11.9   13.4   14.3   15.1
(f) Collections/revenues (%)        92     92     92      92     92     92      92     92      92
(g) Months nc -government            1     *1      1       1      1       1      1      1       1
revenue outstanding
(h) Operating ratio (%)             128    109     91      81     79     79      85     85    85
(i) Rate of return (%)             (3.4)  (1.3)   1.6    3.4    4.0    3.7    2.8    2.8    2.8
(j) Number of employees           6,120  5,450  5,150  4,900  4,850 4,800   4,750  4,700  4,650
Professional, Technical,
Administrative                  670    700    730    750    7S0   750       750    750    750
Other                         5,450  4,750  4,420  4,150  4,100 4,050   4,000  3,950  3,900
(k) Number of connections (1000) 197.0  198.5  200.0  201.5  203.0  204.5 206.0  207.5  209.0
(1) Number of employees/
1000 connections            27.7   23.9   22.1   21.1   20.2    19.8  19.4   19.0   18.7
'a) Disbursements under WSRP
(0 millions)               1,831  3,502  4,815  7,713  8,979   7,665 4,815  1,741    --
may 1989



- 73 -               ANNEX 4-1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Current GWSC Tariffs (Januarv 1. 1989)
A. Metered consumption:
Monthly Water                       Rate
Consumption                  Cedis/l,000 Gal.
Domestic Consumers
0-3,000 Gal.                        184
3,000-10,000 Gal.                   316
Over 10,000 Gal.                    460
Minimum Charge                      552
Industrial & Commercial Consumers
0-10,000 Gal.                       443
Over 10,000 Gal.                    580
Minimum Charge                     2215
B. Unmetered Consumotion:
Monthly Charge
per House                        Cedis
Domestic Consumers
Private Connection                  552
Standpipe                           184
Shared Borehole/Well                109
C. Severape Surcharge:                            35Z



ANNEX 4-2
- 74  -                            Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OP GHANA
GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
Balance Sheet
AWl:   (¢ jmillion)                        17    1           3    19         0    1UK1    28              1       1              1*7
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DJ94 AW a"                                 654    654    17M    17M     20              461 2 6 11U  7 655             450   3
ACMINtS IE0V*E                          2241  2Z41    26        210    31   S         4874   Sa       M       7O8   892   2012
LOS RFa         F  6D OEEII              7)      765   1U76   1RS    2304      3       SW9    455              4611 9    7t2    8778
OLT AC101 E&MYME                          11M     183    VW1    401       w       an1    77       63    I0       1197    IM     1348
GlU  amer AVI3                            un    urn        m      40    M2       136     15    10        UK      1       9       no
TOTAL                                     m45      4      4 m        w            775     37       S    1       N        1      1871
C0 S IICTIG  fIN                           115    1       t192    C14   16L84   2493    e                19065I   11090 13 1136   13I5
FDtD ASS                                   2S00   41      641    8364   M373   7951       M00       1  12       14      154132   584
ACOMLA1M 08SA IGN                          gl    9874  1473   19781   2         8 6M    349    3683   44024   6011   5683   634
1TL FD1D AS                                231   8193  1S5   4381S  47717   4U0   G24   d3                               97NW0 m 010
MM, ASSES M1 37                                    6      45S87         a68        W     MM93  1m m 1           115  19312 12 0149
LIABLTIES * O uM:
SWH  18                                    122     122     n      1t22    1i
A:N15 PAYV                                 78      m      478      E      68      a       70       41   1W       12t3    1341   1402
am  *AM  LZS1LII                          1        77 1    W     1187 t244                372    1440    1512    138    16      1750
0.W P5F1R0 O LT. MT                                 0       0       0       0    17      197    145      51     1l2 10         1791
TOTAL 03  LWEEII 21                        27        7    310    180    1984                      1777    456    4M       463    451
LOG 18     1                               2472    4U8             M    I=       M       U0    4M1       4a      4o      40137  4S
Rw  GU"JZ    EIRI                        1419   423    4W8    4540        7    660    O8        VW24   11394   UW1    M2U1  12178
EIAD   W6SM                                a        m    -Im    -am    -                -urn   -ImS         i   139    It9   29t
tR AM   R       M  FEEW                             28   JMO   40M    4934    4934   M1M6               WMl     1 6 C1487  SIM
mm 014.lY                                 2314   MM    M2    4W9    4092   614           am 6S84    8Z      644236    6 OM?   m9
1. LA        lllmL WnIoE1                  7363                          6 40  am    a m        17O83  U4       USG0  1203mm   120349
0.1 R64ID                                   1.6    1.6    1.8    2.3    2.3    2.4         2.5    2.5      2.9    2.5    2.1    1.9
qJAO MID                                    1.8    1.3    1.6    1.9    2.3    2.1         2.2     2.3     2.6    2.1    1.7    1.5
8 01IW 051 10 LIDNI                         0.5    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.8    0.3    0.4          0.4     0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4
LOG 1134 CWr 1 IC Fw1  AS1                  1.0    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.4    0.5         0.6     0.?      0 C    0.5    0.5    0.6
DBUT 10 EM                                  1.1    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.4    0.5    0.6          0.7     0.8    0.6    0.8    0.7



- 75 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
Income Statement
1ISV1?   13          P U         5       P    126   13    UP       Ss 
(  million)                             restated                                                            -
AVC. V19R TARXA  F 0D4              19    113 a  a s           3            m m          GM    as    GM    676
eo OF WMA  M T                      w ?W   ?            a     4C $          6            am    on    64   31
T2   DXAS x                          a5     5     8      25    S   tS        S      6     6      S     S 
e                                            ai                               usn f        2i    ao   422w4m
2T1EW 11311 PAo                    o.jD  O0        0.6D   0.*   0.4?  0.44   0.42   0.0   0.40   0.40   0.40   00
E1 CF 69 9.       .                17MD  313    11V  V I     171ll   1133  1W   218 2M30  2CU0 50          5120
6R1 u38                            S4W   34    441    OX   GM    PM   1=   IUP   1?7  IPO  164   1182
UESS  lETAtEl AOM                   XU    32    46    64    a        I Z7         Ks    ON   1       11O      11se
NE( SW                              3219  321   aE    4U    3M             UP   110   1213  14s3  1m    m1m
am 3eu3f                            141   141    12      n    I      iS    ZB    219  D23    241    2S    24
-              ~     ~     ~
Nt Ft&E                            3 26    43          4043  P      aus   Ma   Lai    on   1431  g15    14o
Ce,-
SM.*YA3AC                          11U   113   1103  1103  1YN0   12O   11UO   14    1466   1495  1044  1Uu
SRDW NOPnf WmUO                                                     4
ICICIV PA'S41                                         63    n10   403
OCMS                                mD    mD   413   43    us    is    rB    MD   is    12
BLEROIY                            41    40    33    is    81   OS    is    0X9   U23   117   14    14n
wIdoU  oT                          aUs    us      tS2   w     46    4S    614    S    U11  m1         Ms   1s
PEL a uMOh                         no    go Y1         us    J      3,4   4m    AN             m      w9      an
MNDSMTM 00                         is    is    l144   w       w     1C    14    in    20    us    324   248
amwCe,                             us    1       11     2YD  185   14    1U             14    m       3 U
mm7L C   E3           93   0                           U      4     4W        4a 41 430   u    e      7am   31
2EE Wm6 0E                      ew UP   UP                           21S   UP   me       733          M      2
COAIff ESWD                        U1   lUS   US?    W        9    3212   516   w4   46   M6    eo    ass
-~~~~~~~~~~~
DCM MMiu O.&iWM                     6    -is   -is  -1410  -MI   is   1          245   51    2W    2107  245
26Tm OF=I                           n1o   139    U      334   is2   439  658    15   110   1411  187    1
E1 DCOE                             512   -M9  -U12  -146  -56    2    1          170   135   1032    WS 
_ _ _ _ _~ ~~_ =                        =             .            =                         =   - --
OM RFRAtl P  E    f R34            21 J!    2          4Y6   435   43B   U6    Mm4  1e48    -    O          951
PAlE CFI RE2                        23.5  4.1   4.40  4.4  -1.5   1.a   8.4   4.03   8.15   2.6   2.9   2.6
WWTC 610                          71.  15.13  16.1  1.5B  10.4 10.S  61.1   78.6  79.5   W.6   WA.1X  64.



- 76 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 3 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHAP,A
GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
Sources and Uses of Funds
1w     13    I1    2      190   I1 1           M    194   195   1995  197
(¢ million)                            restated
CAM  WA1W FFi VM=20on                                  160    O      mm    Um    US    7       si    ma   GM4
Low oDzseRs _ SX                                              6 mis  am mm    ES                      1457    s0
CWTrAL DNIM                                              40    6    140   M       l     14W    7       me    43
ICTOWE INS.T.1inD0o 26                             0      0     0   -3       0      0      0     0      0      0
94    54   1W      41@   u     im     s     sa.me  sm6  12375   uf u"74
WB:
hIWhI                                                sin          iwi 1a2460  1S      aU 1  iE    7741  610
wlr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MM US                                  124    10    =    1XD   163   102
DINIU   PAD                                       20   41)   i          S liO     25    1W    194           19 9
DAME IN V(G OPIri                   400   400   -4       7s   in    33t   is    15    1         27z   is    we
40    400   -0   410   743  21W   1492  U1W   lIE   1413   141   097
sr CM RN                            64   US   127    -S    4W   11W    4@   1li   132  -lM   -14M   -72
B5DD C4H BANM                       140   1m    64   171   1Z3   243   457   46    513   7xS   605   459
BWovaaUmAN                          654 a  54   175   173   2C7   457   45    558   765   OXO   450   3#5
F w CMN NWTIS TO DMU5ne                                14.13  20.3   21.   2.3  30.3   3.X   46.93  57.   78.1
01 $46 R313                                      J.4   2.4   8.7   4.2   2.$   2.4   2.2   2.3   2.4   2.6



- 77 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Assumptions for GWSC Financial Projections
A.   General
GWSC's 1987 accounts, restated for estimated replacement cost of
fixed asset and revaluation of external debt, have been used as the basis
for the financial projections.
B.   Income Statement
1.   Water produced is assumed to decrease by 102 over the period 1988 to
1991, and then increase from 1992 to 1997 as a result of the impact
of the project and the ATMA Rehabilitation Project.
2.   Unaccounted-for water comprising system losses and unbilled
consumption is assumed to remain at about 502 for 1988 and 1989, when
the first physical improvements will be realized, and decrease by
about 22 per annum to 402 by 1993.
3.   Average water rate.  Tariff increases of 252 p.a. are projected in
1989, 1990 and 1991, and 52 p.a. increases thereafter to 1997.
Increases in 1989 through 1991 are assumed to be implemented in three
phases i.e., 10 on January 1 and April 1 and 52 on July 1.
4. Sewer charges are assumed to remain at 35Z of water charges where
sewerage connections are provided.
5. Consumption patterns. Government consumption is projected to remain
at 312 of total water billings until 1993 and then remain at stable
volume through 1997. Reduction in unaccounted-for water and
production increases are assumed to be utilized to meet private
(i.e , non-government) demand.
6.   Other income is assumed to increase with local .nflation.
7.   Bad Debt Provision.  Government water charges are assumed to be 1002
collectable. The bad debt provision is assumed to decline from the
existing level of 152. by 12 per annum, to 92 in 1994-1997.
8.   Personnel expenses reflect the assumption that GWSC will reduce staff
strength by 740 in 1989, 380 in each of 1990 and 1991 as reflected in
its corporate plan and by 70 per annum thereafter through to 1997.
Salary increases of 302 have been assumed to be implemented every
three years in line with the past trend.



- 78 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 2 of 3
9.   Chemicals are assumed to increase with production, international
inflation and exchange rate differences.
10. Electricity is predicted to increase by ECG's projected average
tariff rates until 1994 and then by local inflation. ECG's projected
average rates per kilowatt hour ares
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993   1994    1995
7.5     8.2     1.8     9.2    10.0    10.9   12.4    13.0
11.  Operation and maintenance costs are assumed to increase with
production and local inflation.
12. Administration increases with local inflation.
13. Fuel and lubricants are projected to increase with production,
international inflation and exchange rate differences.
14. Other expenses increase with local inflation.
15. Depreciation is charged at an average rate of 4.1Z on gross revalued
fixed assets.
16. Interest expense from 1989 onwards is net of capitalized interest or,
construction in pxogress.
C.   Balance Sheet
1.   Fixed assets and accumulated depreciation reflect revaluation and
depreciation based on changes in exchange rate of the Cedi relative
to the US dollar and prevailing inflation rates. The revaluation
surplus, net of foreign exchange losses resulting from revaluation of
foreign debts, is carried to Revaluation Reserve.
2.   Long-term debt and current portion of long-term debt reflect
revaluation based on changes in the exchange rate of the Cedi
relative to the US dollar. Long-term debt is increased by
disbursements based on projected implementation schedules for the
ATMA and Water Sector Rehabilitation Projects and is decreased by
projected repayments of principal. Projected debt service assumes
IDA funds will be on-lent/ transferred as equity as proposed at para
3.07. It is assumed that the remaining co-financing will be on-lent
at an average rate of 3Z per annum and repaid over 20 years following
a ten-year grace period.
3.   Net Asset Revaluation Reserve is the result of the surplus from
revaluation of fixed assets and accumulated depreciation net of
foreign exchange losses recognized through revaluation of long-term
debt denominated in foreign currencies.



- 79 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 3 of 3
4. A:counts re:eivable include aged accounts, for which a provision for
bad debts has been made, as well as one month's sales. Provision for
bad detts reflects the accumulated provisions made for uncollectable
accounts receivable at rates mentioned in B.7.
5.   Inventories are assumed to be equal to 6 months' consumption of
chemicals, spare parts, fuel and lubricants.
6.   Construction in proaress reflects investments in all projects in
progress plus capitalized interest during construction. Construction
in progress is also revalued as described in paragraph C.l. above.
7.   Accounts payable are assumed to remain at 3 months' of cash expenses.
8.   Other current assets and liabilities are assumed to increase at the
domestic inflation rate.
AP41N
February 1989



-80 -                        ANNEX 5-1
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
A.   Proiect Benefits
1.        The proposed project will rehabilitate and partially expand
existing water supply systems in 37 major cities and towns in Ghana. At
present, people in these towns experience low water pressure and
intermittent service. The project would improve the availability and
reliability of safe water supply. Particularly, the project would (i)
reduce the inconvenience of people suffering from unreliable water and
frequent stoppages; (ii) save time and cost spent in carrying/transporting
water from distant places and storing it; and (iii) increase the
productivity of industrial, commercial and public service activities. The
project would contribute to a more reliable water supply for some 2.8
million people.
2.        There would be other benefits which are unquantifiable,
including a general improvement in health. The project would strengthen
the financial position of GWSC, which would reduce its reliance on outside
sources for financing future investments, and would strengthen management
capability thrclgh training which would increase the cost effectiveness of
its operations.
B.   Net Water ^-or Use and Water Demand Curves
B.1 Net Water for Use
3.        Table 1 presents the estimation of incremental net water for
use. Many of the systems are old and were neglected during the period of
economic crisis in the late 1970s and early 1980s, causing the rapid
deterioration of their production capacities. Actual water production will
decrease furtbhr without the project. It is assumed conservatively that
without the project the actual production of all existing systems except
for Kumasi will decrease with the following decline factors:
87188 88/89 89X90 90191 91192 92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 96/97 97198
1.00   0.95   0.90   0.86   0.81   0.77   0.74   0.71   0.69   0.67   0.65
After 1997, the production is assumed to decline by 3 percent annually.
Kumasi was assumed to maintain production at its present level since ODA
has and will continue to finance substantial investments in Kumasi.



-81 -                         ANNEX S-1
Page 2 of 6
4.        It *-as estimated in the consultant's feasibility study that the
net water for use by consumers was about 58Z of production in 1987 1/.
Without the pro4ect, it is assumed that this percent will decrease by two
percent annually after 1987. This was applied to all systems except for
Kumasi, for which the percent remains at 58Z, i.e., the present level,
through the middle of 2016.
5.        With the project, it is assumed that:  (1) the production of
treated water will increase to and be maintained at its planned level,
i.e., 15,565 million gallons per year through 2015/16; and (2) physical
leakage will remain at its expected level, i.e., 25Z.  With these
assumptions, the second column from the right of Table 1 presents the net
water for use with the project, which was estimated at 11,749 million
gallons per year after the completion of the project.  The last column of
the table presents the incremental water for use.
6.        The number of existing consumers in 1988 is 2.5 million and that
of new consumers to be served by 1995/6 is 0.3 million. The total water
for use with the project, i.e., 11,749 million gallon per year, was
allocated proportionately to existing and new consumers: 10,347 and 1,402
million gallons per year, respectively.
B.2 Water Demand Curve
7.        The economic benefits of the increased water supplies which will
be provided by this project are difficult to quantify. The economic
analysis presented here attempts to approximate these benefits by taking
the area under a water demand curve as a measuru of households' willingness
to pay (WTP) for the increased water supplies. This estimate of project
benefits is likely to be an improvement over conventional approaches to
estimating the benefits of water projects, which typically equate project
benefits with the revenues collected by the water utility from increased
water sales. However, it is important to emphasize that the estimates of
economic benefits presented here are subject to substantial uncertainty.
There is little information available on the demand for water in Ghana
which could be used as a basis for this economic analysis. Therefore, a
demand curve fo: water has been assumed. We believe that this demand curve
is reasonable, but it is not based on empirical evidence. The estimates
presented here are thus only meant to be illustrative of the general
magnitude of the economic benefits of the project.
8.        To measure WTP, the water demand curves were estimated
separately for the existing and new consumers, which are illustrated in
Figure 1. E1E3E2 and NlN3N2 in the figure represent the demand curves for
the existing and new consumers, respectively. Two demand points were
identified for each demand curve, which were (1) the minimum water demand
for drinking and cooking which is twj buckets (eight imperial gallons) per
day per household (average number of persons in a household was estimated
11 Water SuPPly Sector Rehabilitation Study, Tahal Consulting Engineers,
September 1988.



- 82 -                        ANNEX 5-1
Page 3 of 6
at 4.28) priced at four cedis per bucket (prevailing price of water sold by
water vendors in 1988) and (2) the full demand for water, which is about 50
lcd, priced at the expected average tariff rate in 1991 which is estimated
at 00.38 cedis per gallon at 1988 prices 2/. Nl and El in Figure 1
represent the minimum anni'al demand points and N2 and E2 represent the full
annual demand points 3/.
9.        To derive a demand curve from the two demand points, specified
above, an exponential curve with a constant elasticity was regressed, but
the fitted curve was not acceptable because it showed a price elasticity
higher than unity. Hence, a variable elasticity approach was adopted. It
is commonly accepted that the price elasticity is less than unity, ranging
from 0.2 to 0.4 4/. Elasticity is low at a low demand level and high at a
high demand level. Thus, it was assumed that the elasticity is 0.2 at the
minimum demand level (Nl or El) and 0.8 at the full demand level (K2 or
E2), and the demand curve was approximated by two straight lines running
through the two demand points with elasticities of 0.2 and 0.8 5/. If an
elasticity of 0.4 is assumed at the full demand point, the demand curve
almost becomes a straight line N1N2 or E1E2.  Since demand curves should
bow out to the origin of a graph, 0.8 rather than 0.4 was assumed at the
full demand points.  Results are the demand curves N1N3N2 and E1E3E2 in
Figure 1 for the new and existing consumers, respectively.
10.       TlT3T4T2 in the figure represents the total demand curve derived
from N1N3N2 and ElE3E2. It is clear from the assumptions that the estirated
total demand curve TlT2T4T2 is a conservative approximation of a true
21   The average water tariff in 1988 is estimated at ¢250 per 1000
gallons. However, GWSC has already committed to increase nominal
tariff rates by 252 from the rates of July 1, 1988 in 1989, 1990 and
1991. Since this has already been approved by the GOG, the rate
after these increases is taken as the base tariff to compute
financial benefits. The Bank's estimates of inflation rates are
15.2?, 9.1Z, and 6.6Z in 1989, 1990, and 1991, respectively. Hence,
the real rates of increase of the tariff will be 9.8?, 15.9Z, and
18.42 in 1989, 1990, and 1991, respectively. Compounding these three
rates, the real rate of increase for the three years is 50.7Z. Since
the benefits of the project start to flow in 1991, the increased
tariff rate is used for the economic analysis. Multiplying 00.250 by
1.507, the increased tariff rate was estimated at 00.377 per gallon
at 1988 prices.
3/   The minimum annual demand is based on 300 davs per year to estimate
conservatively.
41   "Water Supply Investments in Developing Countriest Some Technical,
Economic, and Financial Implications of Experience," Mike Garn,
in Proceedings of International Conference on Water Supply,
Puerto Rico, 1987.
5/   If an elasticity less than 0.8 is adopted at the full demand level,
the demand curve becomes a straight line.



ANNEX 5-1
- 83 -                       Page 4 of 6
demand curve TlTST2 that has continuously variable elasticities. Since the
estimated curve is conservative in terms of consumers' surplus, this
approximation of the demand curves does not result in the overestimation of
project's benefits.
B.3 Economic Benefits
11.       With regard to the demand curve of existing consumers, it should
be recalled that there is existing water supply without the project. This
supply is serving the neediest demand, and hence it should carry the
highest value. It was assumed that the water supply without the project
will satisfy the water demand being most highly valued, which is
represented by P1E5 in Figure 1. Consequently, the economic benefit
arising from the incremental water to the existing consumers (E5E6 in
Figure 1) is represented by the shaded trapezoid E2E4E5E6.
12.       With respect to the water for the new consumers, their benefits
are simply represented by the shaded area NlN2N3PlP2. The sum of these two
shaded areas is the total benefit of the project. Using this fact, the
average WTP per unit of water was computed in Table 2. It was estimated at
00.55 per gallon or US$2000 per million gallons at an exchange rate of 0270
per US$.
C. Economic Analysis
13.       The economic capital cost of the pro3ect was estimated in Table
3.  Capital and operating costs are measured in international border
prices, i.e., US$ excluding duties and taxes, at prices of February 1988.
j            Local costs are converted into border costs by applying the general
conversion factor of 0.93.
14.       Table 4 presents the economic analysis of the project, using
incremental water for use from Table 1 and average WTP from Table 2.
;            15.        The equilibrium exchange rate was estimated at 270 Cedis/USS in
1988.  Since the benefits are considered to be domestic, the benefits were
converted into border prices by applying this exchange rate and also the
general conversion factor of 0.93 which is expected to prevail during the
project life.
16.       Based on these assumptions, the last column of Table 4 presents
the net economic cash flow of the entire project and the internal economic
rate of return (ERR). The ERR of the project was estimated at 152.
17.       Sensitivity tests were carried out to test ERR under less
favorable conditions. Even the operating costs increase by 102, the ERR is
still 152; if WTP is reduced by 1O, the ERR is 142; if capital costs
increase by 102, it is 14Z; ant if all of these three occur, the ERR is
122.
18.       Sensitivity tests under favorable conditions produced the
following: if operating costs are reduced by 10%, the ERR is 162; if
capital costs are reduced by 102, the ERR is 17%; if the WTP for water



- 84 -                       ANNEX 5-1
Page 5 of 6
increases by 102, the ERR is 172; if all of these three occur, the ERR is
19Z.
19.       The average incremental economic cost of water, which is the
approximation of long-run marginal cost of water, was estimated at 0377 per
1000 gallons when discounted at 102. It is slightly higher than the
average economic tariff of water, which is 0350 per 1000 gallons.
20.       An adjusted financial analysis following the conventional
approach and based on the_4verage financial tariff of water is presented.
The adjusted financial rate of return is 9Z. Although this clearly
underestimates the actual ERR, it demonstrates that the project would be
viable even on the basis of financial benefits alone.
D.   Income Distribution and Poverty Impact
21.       Table 5 presents the latest estimate of income distribution in
Ghana 6/. Income was measured by consumption expenditures. The last
column shows the per capita income of urban people in mid-1988. Table 6
presents several indicators of poverty level in urban Ghanas (1) a relative
poverty threshold, (2) an absolute poverty level, (3) a minimum wage level;
and (4) estimated income of a low income taxi driver. They range from
035,000 to 053,688 per year per person, the average being 045,326.
22.       Applying these thresholds to Table 5, the percentage of poor in
urban population was estimated. Estimates are presented in the last column
of Table 6. The poverty shares range from 202 to 402 and their average is
302. Hence, about 302 of the urban population of Ghana is estimated to be
poor. Since the project is supposed to serve all income classes in subject
cities and towns, it is expected that about 302 of the project costs will
benefit the poor.
E.  Affordability
23.       Average household sizes were estimated at 4.89 persons per
household for all Ghana, 4.28 for urban areas, and 5.24 for rural areas in
1984 (Ghana Statistical Service, Ghana in Figures, 1987). The Ghana Living
Standards Survey also estimated that the national average household size is
4.89 persons per household in 1987-1988. Hence, it is assumed that the
average urban household size during the project life is 4.28. As a design
standard, it is assumed that average water consumption in 1990 will be 52
liters per capita per day 7/. Hence, an average urban household is
assumed to consume about 6.7 m3 or 1,460 gallons per month in 1990.
6/   These are the first results of Ghana Living Standards Survey.  Data
were collected during the period of September 1987 through February
1988.
7/   Actually, consumption in 1990 was estimated system by system.  The
average consumption of all 37 systems was estimated at 52 lcd.



ANNEX 5-1
- 85 -                       Page 6 of 6
24.       Since tariff increases through 1991 are approved, the tariff in
1991 will be higher than the present one at 1988 prices (see paragraph 8).
Meanwhile, real incomns are also expected to increase. It was estimated
that GNP per capital will grow by 5.6Z during the three-year period from
1988 through 1991. Table 7 presents the share of income which will be
spent on -water per average household per month by the decile of population.
25.       A commonly used indicator of affordability to pay for water is
that a household's water expenditure should not exceed 3t to 52 of its
income. It is clear from Table 7 that the 52 limit can be satisfied if the
first decile uses standpipes or lives in unmetered premises, which is very
likely. If 3.12 is the limit to pay for water, all income groups except
for the first two deciles can afford to have private connections and the
first two deciles can also have access to water by either using standpipes
or living in unmetered premises. In the light of the fact that about 502
of the target population was using unmetered water in 1987, it would be
reasonable to assume that 20S of the population. i.e., the first two
deciles, uses unmetered water in 1991.  Hence it can be concluded that the
increased tariffs in 1991 are affordable for the target population.
AP4IN
April 1989



-86-                                    ANNEX 5-1
Figure 1
FIGURE 4. DEMAND CURVES OF NEW CONSUMERS, EXISTING CONSUMERS
AND TOTAL CONSUMERS
Cedis/Gaiion
P2\                   TI
\  N1  El /I
l.0    . i   190 mg/yr at 0.7838 cedis/yr.
Net water for use w/o project In 2015/16
00   T5    /which was estimated at 30929 mg/yr.
/Midpoint which Is 3635.6 mg/yr.
0.8  ,         T~ T-,4-+> {/  / Net water for use w/o project In 1995/96
which was estimated at 4178.4 mgyr.
6991.3 mfg/yr at 0.5294 cedls/g
0.6    798 mg/yr at                                     Cosmr
0.4                                                                      - /4-
I I
N2  ~~~~~;~Y~LE2
0                                                                        *iN E,mg/yr
Pi/            22000      4.000       6.000       8.000       10.000      12.000
WorC, Bar*-44166



TAU 1. 311T1 an Fs E
utl dliti PRIM dr Pff
.................................................................................. ..............................................  ............ ...............4.6 ........... .... ..#*o ......
Prdw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Csts4 ann  p33m   ~  X 
d            XSw~ru1cist   U/  rjg                                     tSa   o be 3/0 Awu                                 193 fraut 31Imu                      uuu
3toPAN        bgliu       FruSitm                               slflaw  Opt NW. for                                         M1 1              qy
Wy    Fter           WY/                                                 On# WY/
............        ... .. ..                                                                     .                            .                              ......... ........ ,
uIWMlm              42*3i0        5S020            1.00       5109.20       927.          2472.3           0.3          .SfhJ       5722          9223                         33.22            0.3
NW               42*3.60         0.20           0.9         47..74        9234          2723            0L.         2704.37        MM           9022.34                     5177.*1          0.
9I/              426.60         5009.20         D.9         4.U             Il          2472.3          0.5         2211.2*       401.14        3113l.3                      4.34            0.
90191            4243.60        5009.20         0.LK        4307.91        71.51        2472.3           0.s        21.95          24.54         571.531         0.0        44.50            L.1
992               M2I.0         509.20          0.03        4057.45       523.05        2472.1          0.53        2170.63       44.S2         3.20             0.4        432.70         23.13
293              42*3.60        509.20          o.7         337.0         312.0         24n.iJ           L5         20.1T         4" 0           M0.0           1.5          55.74        3010.
93N                *U.0         500.20          0.74       3m.            79M.          2472.           0.3         3904.2        47.40        1029L0           24.30       4507.12       213.72
"M               4203.0        50W.20           0.71         MN           720.33        2472.0          O."         1790.7*       42039        1341.50          74.29       99."          57.3
9519             42*3.60       5009.20          0.99        3465.3        7719.95       2472.           0.4         M75.5         413.40       ISL.0            00.00      13743.757 M.
/97              42*3.0         5009.20         0.97        31*              9.76       2472            0.4         162.9         4095.34      15.                         11741.75         52.
7/98             4263.60        50.20           0.65        32559          5319.53      2472.3          0.47        1543.02       40IL90      l356.00                      1134.75        773L.
UW9              423           5009.20          0.U3        318.30        7421.0        2472."          0.4*        14479           39         315.00                      11743.         739.07
1999I20            42*3.60       5009.20          0.01       306.5         7W7.S           72.8           0.4*       19.           37.22         356.00                      1174.75        31.53
2012001            4203.0        5009.20          0.5        271.05        72.25          242n.3          0.4        133545         39.34        25.00                       11743.75       790.41
03/02            42*3.          509.20          0.3         202.50        714010        2472.8           0.0        132.7         37M          150.00                      11743.75        1.3 
02/03             4203.60       1009.20         0.5         27%.02        75.0          2472.3* 0.43                17            300.62          0.00                     113761.75      7L  3
3/O6              420.60        509.20          0.50        2712.14       *974          2472.           0.42        1133.         30ill3.      I54eo6                      1371,75        8137.30
0/45              4203.00       50.20           0.53        2*0.73        09.3          24n.8            0.43       *l0.     n   u353.22       150.00                      1174.75        3593.54
00                42*3.0        5009.20         0.53        255.          63I1.L4       2472.8           0.3        1023.         3503.74      IS.0                        3174.75       3247.03
W6                4263.00       5.20             0.4        2475.30       *73L0         2472.3          0.40         9            3450.9       515.o                       1174.75        3297.3
0710             42*3.0         5009.20         0.41        2403.04       0064.0        2472.3          0.3            .71        340.M0        565.00                     374.75         3 .s
Wm                42*3.0        509.20          0.4*        232.03        6592.41       2472.8           .3S          LM          3355.0       15S6.                       11737.75       52.
0/10             423.60        5009.20          0.45        22.34         652.74       2472.8             U7           .13        335.0        35065.0o                    337U.7          474
t0lit            42*3.60       500.20           0.44       2191.36       0054.9*       2472.3           0.3*        796U         3271.51       530.00                      13748.75      0977.24
11/12            42*3.60       5009.20          0.         2125l.        033.22        2472.3           0.3          79.37       33o0          I36o0                       Wel.s           1i.9
W13              42.60         5009.20          0.43       2001.              45       2472.89          0.35        72.0         394.8         is365001                    11748.75          .19
31I4             4203.60       S00.20           0.0        2000.0        62*.60        2472.3 e3                    610U         313.91        156.0o                      11343.75      31.3"
141Is            42u.00         009.20          0.39       10OO         0360          2472.3            .34          213        31u2.32      l305o.                       13748.75      3L73
I3/3*            42*30         5009.20          0.33        3131.3       0145.40       24.3             03          61.91         392O         356.00                      33743.75       gm9
.............. ............ ............         ...............................-  .................................................................    ........ .
1I D



- 88 -                          ANNEX 5-1
Table 2
TABLE 2: Average Willingness to Pay per Gallon
Category               Incremental            Average          Expected
Demand for Water           WTP          Value of VTP
mg/yr        z            ¢Ig               ¢Ig
Existing Consumers    6711       82.7            0.53           0.44
New Consumers
Rectangular Part      190       2.3            1.00           0.02
Trapezoidal Part    1212       14.9           0.58            0.09
TOTAL                  8113     100.0                           0.55



Table L ROMM WITCA  CIT
abtt   NSo '0 at 235 autt plcesl
yowl                                12                                  VS                                  94                                  Vs
.+e . ,,, ,,., ....... ,,,,, ..... ,, ..X0X*e ..... ****@@@.*X*J* .* .................................................... ,,.,...............................e
Local    Faraip         Total      Local      Fe4o          Total       Local    Farnl          Tota        Local Ftd Lnlw p        Tota        Lual    Pnp             fewta
..................................................................................0.....................................................................................................................
All ReO onal was              0.00        0.00        0.00      70.40    2,150.25    2,910.6      2,519.50    5,71.1s0 5294    3,069.00    6,90.35   12,809.35   4,354.3    9,594.5    13,749.5
haldOig,                    112.50       n5.00      17.50       21L.0       150.05      36.85       545.95        2.70       9l          45.5"      3J2.70      0.          3.30          5.05          .3
Eqlpmnts                     15.00      3.0         370.00       20.00      0.00        44.00         14.7       290.15     307.          14.15      37.n3       32.30       12.0        101.00      190.00
Rettre                        0.00        0.9 1       0.00       U.0         54.00       30.00       52.00       10.00       110.00      12.00       106.00      11u0.00     3.00        I0.6        168.06
Engioeng                  1,248.00    2,904.00    4,152.0        31.20       n.2. e      0.0         02.40       24.20      207.0        62.40       1420       207.0        62.0        145L20     207.0
Tecmicstl Studies           820.00      422.00    1,250.00     *22.00       140.0       32.0O        24.00       I06.00     132.00       12.00       50.00       ".00D        0.00        0.          0.0
Techi:CAl hA AstSnc           0.n5      231.35      240.10       17.50      22.70       2BO.26/      35.00      525.40      50.40        43.75       0.7!       700.         35.00      525.6       50.40
hysical Contagoucnn         367.6       700.se    1,094.06      206.76      302.50      709.26      508.20    1,259.12    1,027.32      533.7    1',0.74    2,745.10        1I.       W,02.50    2,11.54
TOTAL FIKIA2L C.lT        2,600.11    4,594.21    7,294.26    1,494.00    3,763.20    5,257.76    3,B22.0    3,57.27   12,393.07    5,46.00   12,01.    17,30.10    5,507.23    2,^71   13,22.4
ECOWIC  yST                 1,612.07    4,594.15    4,206.22      906       3,703.10    4,069.19    2,370.14    6,570.27   10,940.40    3,372.93   12,401.4   15,77.43    3,451.0    12,.l72   10,307.5
...................................................................... .............. ........................................................... .................................
90                                  17                                  Total
94195                               95ssn                               hA3 -  09
........................................ ............................   ,  ,  @................
Local     Fareag        To,tal      leal      Ferdg         Total       Local    Frerdga        Total                                                                                                                               *
2,.29.20    6,106.35    8,737.55    1,U4.35    3,160.45    4,529.30    5,29.00   35,740.00   5,036.00
205.00      210.00      475.00      112.50       15.00       67.50    2,1U0.00    1,50.50    3,06.50
9.00      151.00      10.00         7.ts      242.3       23.00        95.00    5,7o.0O    2,0.0
52.00      106.00      160.00       26.00       54.00       60.00      20.00       540.00      300.00
62.40      145.2       207.0        31.20       7.00       103.30... 5,300.00    3,030.00    5,190.00
0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00    2,06.         730.00    1,620.00
17.50     262.70       280.20       17.50      20.70       230.20      115.0     2,27.0o    2,502.00
571.05    1,320.32    1,697.67      m.33        724.17    1,010.3    3,11.3s   6,445.10   12,29.65
3,606.75    0,311.47   11,918.22    2,355.36    4,430.42    0,341.80   24,33.55   54,9s2.60   79,306.15
2,236.19    8.311.47   10,547.65    2,150.34    4,40.42    5,03.15   15,119.04   54,92.W0   70,101.04
I2I tea building costs intluce 5f of all *11  ktoel/stuos, trainInl                       be 5I Of the total tehi9dl assistnce cilst.
centor, and staff busing.                                                        151 TN  physical coptilp y cots we the tota  costs o  101 of hlinig,
121  the easipat clts ladedO 211 501 of vd icles, comnatum bQiW                                   ts ad ntwsl 20M of aq1eaing; 15  of tecielcal dtdin
eonpsnts, lbrateory eqrp ts, aVd tpo  qpant/tools of                                 ao technigal asaoiatncel af th4 catin cils d  all rd gioal
swoisittcrn, and 121 501 of the frign cost of comptr.                                wrhe dic   wer  coputd system by syatma.
Ill  The cost of tKckncad Stdin  iCIlude1 Ill 2400 Of 11drolelcal                   (tu  To cdltcsUe     s tecO   c cost, local csts wro mutiplied 111 by
study cost, and 121 501 od the reduction of n--accounted for ubtr                    12701801 sine the locl costs ad bm  cnwrted ioto W  at
cot.                                                                                 cdis 1B0 tW   dolar ad the *qiilibrlu ncbgp brat  is
14)  Th coSt of tKerChIal aSsstanc  eW  the 37 systMs  a &SUM    to                        stinted to he 270 at 1933 Vices, ad (21 by te CoerWi  leKtoc                                                                               61
0.93 to tat. acost of tariff ad *SidY dtdr0tiO. 



TALE . EIIC NIELSI  I TME Pw
..................................................................................................................................................................................................................
VD ProiJKt  With Proett   Incrotdl WTf w          f l ater   lacrs tdl   IuO toject  bitb Project   Iertal   et  emic   bt E tcmo c                Econeic Tot  kEist  bt Ettoic
let Vater fw  let later for ht Mater fo           0dtr   Ea. hf it          Fisid         Ebiedal        Fisaid           wfit         lsit   Capitd Cut               Cst    Cta  fle
ust$ oily     Vse moll      ho, al/y    Coners    Mdtn are Ct1v'a    0e *   Cost  e il Cost         O    C    hfea Cov's  Ater NtCo  r koag  nal.               solon          Ost
uS/ag        ed'000  MO re Cmv's hwere Cowls    wafre tmvr             11OtO         estOt 0            COO
fit 270m  :1                       oes0     ooo Oslo           tCON                      (11.931
51097/5B03           537.22        5378.22           0.00       202.00            0.00       33.9.0         32.00            0.00          0.00           0.0           0.00           0.00          0.0
01119             5117.76       5ff.7b           0.00       202.              0.00       3303.35        3303.35          0.00          9.00           0.00            .O           0.00          0.0
919"              4984.14       4934.24           0.00        2029.00          0.o        3273 .0        3273.03          t so          0.             0.00       0,20.22        60.22        -01222
90/91             4824.54       4824.54           0.0        2029.00           0.00       3253.20        35.20            0.00          0.00           0.tO        ,H.79         49.79        -4U.?f
91/92             4643.52        4t82.7         239.l*        2029.00        485.31       3223.9         3240.00         11.31         473.99        440.1h      10,4.0          0o.92        -10199.59
92i93             4495.06       5555.74        1060.68        2029.0e       2152.12       3204.54        35.O0          29546         I0.66         1720.i       15,773.43      10043.20      -10.73
93194             43.40         057.12         2129.72        209.00        4321.20       3190.76         6.0           65.24         30359         53313.44     h7-".sq        1054.07       -12923.9
94/9u             4263.65       9960.54        5704.39        2029.00      11575.22       3157.33        5200.00       2042.17        952s          11115.27     10,547.05      127.34         -2231
95/l9             *i7.40        11748.75       7570.35        2029.00      253S0.25        3234.26       53.00         2752.74       12050         11725.91       5,03.75        I9.1             5.1S
S9U7              49.34         11743.75       7052.91        2029.00      1527.75         3111.53       53.00         2774.47       125.23        11310.55           0.00       7Ye.70        11U0.D
9793              403:.90       11743.75       772.5          2029.00      25039.94       3439.14        30.00         2790.51       1293          11990.57           0.00       2001.0        11"0.57
9891              3939.60       11749.75       7309.07        2029.00      15344.60        3067.09       53.00         2319.91       13021.0       U213.9             0.0        242.59        1213.
99/2000           3367.22       11748.75       7982.53        2029.00      15991.62        3045.37      3s6.00         2340.63       1150.99       12230.82           0.00       2041.79       1223.
200012001           379.34        11743.75       790.41         2029.00      16131.38       3023.97        533.O         2062A     5  13269.35       12340.50           0.00       200.0         1230.5
01/02             3732.06       11743.75       8815.39       20.00         i2.24          3m002.90      5386.00        233.10        13I1.13       122414.45          0.0o       261.29          444.45
02/03             3670.62       11740.75       9073.13        2029.00      1390.53        2982.14        56.00         2903.36       1348."        2142.00            0.00       2700.59       13O
03/04             3611.45       1740.75        3137.30        2029.00      16520.53       2961.69        58.00         2924.31       18.27         2655.23            0.00        79.01        121.23 
04l05             3555.21       1174B.75       3293.54        2029.00      16624.70       2941.55        5316.00       294.45        260.25        12722.03           0.00       21.34         12722.03 
05/06             350.74        1748.75        8247.01        2029.00      2n73.3          2921.71       5336.00       2964.29       2763.         12305.07           0.00          n79        1 .71
06/07             3450.91       11743.75       3297.34       2029.00       1636.31        2902.17        50.00         293.3         13352.4       12L.               0.00       2774.6       U12.3
07/03             3402.60       11743.7        3IS            20.00        16934.34       2832.92        5366.00       3003.00       13931.20      225.07             0.00       2792          1295M.07
03/09             336.67        1l749.75       3392.03        2029J        l7027.53       2363.96        53.00         3022.04       2403.4        130.20             0.00       231L.4         10i.l1
09/10             3313.01       22748.75        435.74        202940       1720.2          2345.29       5336.0        3040.72       14075.40      13090.12           0.00       212.          u19.12
10/11             3271.51       11748.75       347.24        22 Co         170.32         2326.90        536.00        3059.10       14141.21      23152.33           0.00       2344.97       23151.53
11/12             3232.06       2174.75        MM.9          2029.00       17230.37       2303.73        580.00        3077.22       1420314       13203.92           0.00       236.3         li0it
12/13             3294.50       11743.75       3554.19        2029.00      1735.40        2790.93        53.00         35.07         14261.39      13263.09           0.00       2173.41       U223.09
13/14             3253.91       11743.75        59.34        20.00         17423.79       2773.35        53.00         3122.65       143115         3314.02          0.00        2394.70       IW4.A2
14/IS             3225.02       174.75         023.73        202.00        17497.50       2756.04        53.0          3129.9        14317.59      133S.30            0.0o       210.7         15331.
15/11             30S2.90       11743.75       8S6.9         2029.00       17562.92       2733.90        SM.00         3147.02       14425.90      13400.79      -20z29.oo00     29.n          W04.79
.......................................................................................................................................................... ..
Prowt Value at 91  oest *                        u725.39                                                                                                                           599.23         34110.7
Proot Valw  at 10n Discout *                       4.33                                                                                                                            52473.1        19329-.1
Prout Valn  at 121 DiscoOnt *                    29330.32                                                                                                                          44653.20         52.06
at i         at lf          at in
Averae Ineftmentil Econmic Cott of Wter (5/pIlon) *                          0.002315      0.0423972      0.0015702
Arage incremtol Economic Cost of Water at 270 rsostftseis/1000 gal.) *   332.5007025    317.206892    425.5331412                                                                      13              .u1
Average Incresntal Ecomic Cot of 14ter 1013) *                               0.27xe79      0.S%3112       0.45 5956
Aeaqe Eck    oc Tariff of Ib ter in 2991 at 1930 Prices (ceit/llooa.) of  350.331000    350.331S0010  350.3320000                                                                                                          F
WTPllil2annns To Pay) ts tJ of IEC (II *                                        ISL23           35U.07       119.71
Averaop Econfic triff s I of AIEC (11 a                                         105.36         92.03           2.32
SENIIVITY 011.515 
III 01 incre"a  at the operntion costs              1R *           0.15                               531 100 uviag in the owratia  cost         23i * 0.15              0.12
I2V  02 incree in the capital costs3 In9                           0.14                              (02 202 esai    in the caital cats         la  a 0.10              0.17
S13 l20 redKtion is the NIP fhr  eter:              IRR *          0.14                               71 10 I  iwre  is the W1P fcr eater       II  * 0.10               0.1
14) AlI of the Am thrt                              1  a          0.12                              (l Al of the ah          thre:             2  a*0.o                 0.29



TALE 5. 3N0St3   FIWICW. #..VSIS G TIIE MMICT 3Gl                F30tIN. TOIP
.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........
uO0 Project  With Project    IcKrCtal          Fincial    lnrontal   ID ProeJct   lith PrFoJct    IKrnetal  lit Eco Ci  ht Ean,lc                        k Ecel: Ted h    ebEic   llt E.a-ic
ot  ater fr  NIt Mter fr lIt Mate for Price of btr   Eco.  uffit               Fihncial      hFiaocial       Fin ial t         elt           bI t   Catp i       ut           Cst Cut Fl1
Up. eq/v       u       sll    u". oily Bfefre lmvr-                      o 01I te vte     0 1 t Cat  oICat  o D   t Coat  re Ciw Ne     Aft  r ow's h lda     Val.    es5OSK          "I'm
Sem     nol/so        WIN   lifwe  Cay' le     f Idr Cr wle  fwfer. Cemvln        "so toe                       so34
fat 270 cis)                      u00000         u"d oe           '000                       (tF0.93)
.1n.                       .     ...lado. .378.22  5370.22  0.00  235.37           0.00        3329.00         3. o29.00     0.00            . o..00 0..                      .             9.0.           0.00
W99                51 77.76       5177.76           0.00        139.37            0.00        3303.35        3303.35           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.0            6.0             0.0o
99                 490J.4.14      4904.14           0.0         135.37            0.00        327r.00        3270.08           0.00           0.00           0.00 o,20.o                622 40.22
90191              4024.54        4824.54           0.00        135.37            0.00        3203.20        3253.20           0.0            0.0o           0.00       4,.79           40.79         4010.79
91/92              4643.52        4002.70         239.19        19.3            333.7s        322.69         3240.00          11.31          M22.4         29.97       1o04.            10    2       -140.53
92/93              4495.06        m5.74           0.6S          1395.37        100.04         3204.4         300.00          25.46         104.58         2101.6       15,M.43         104120        -14671J.
93/94              4377.40        6507.12        2129.n 2       139.37         2971.75        3100.76        3B6             615.24        2201.50        2126.4        10,307.39       1044.0       -14100.U
94/9               4243.65        99.54          5704.09        is"9.3S        7940.43        3157.33        5200.00        2042.67         917.76        5503.52      10,547.15       12W7.34         -504.13
95/90              4178.40       11740.75        7570.35        139.37        10543.45        3134.2         500.00         2751J4         7011.70        72U4.N        5, .75          Hf.N            300.13
96197              4095.04       1174.75         7652.91        13.37         107E.64         3111.53        50.00          2774.47        7904.17        7350.N            0.00        2510.20          MA50.U
97/?8              4015.90      12740.75         77.05          1395.37       1o7N.I0         3009.14        50.0           2796.06        7993.32        743.79            .o          21.06            433.79
90/99              3939.60       11748.75        709.07         1395.37       10096.55        3067.09        506.0          2810.91         077.03        7512.20           0.00        221.59           512.20
m2000              3s67.22       11740.75        7001.53        139.37         ow7.65         3045.37        506.00         2140.63        057.02         7503               0o0         2641.79     oM
2000/2001            3790.34       1174.75         7950.41         f5.V7        1193.77         3023.97        50.00          2162.03        0231.74        7455.52           0.00         2001.0         705.2
01/02              37n2.06       11748.75        0015.0         13;37         31135.1)        3002.90        500.00         2003.10         052.03        7720.             0.00        261.29         770."
02/03              3670.62       11740.7         0070.13        1 .7          11271.90        292.14         500.0          2903.06        00.12          735               0.0o         2700.5r           i5
03/04              3611.45       11748.75        0137.30       1339.37        11354.54        2961.1          06.00         2924.31        0430.24        7340.12           0.00        2719.u2        75 212
04105              355.21        11748.75        0393.54        35.37         1343.S         2m4.s           50.00          2944.45        841.9          7194.53           0.00        2753.34        739.3
05106              3501.74       11740.75        E247.03        19.37          13507.3        2921.71        50.00          2964.29         53.4          19.31             0.00        2750.79         1.31
0607              3450.91      21704.75         829744         1395.37       1157.55         2902.317       50.0           2903.03        0s54.7         7w3.99            0.00        2774.9          M
07/0S              3402.60       1174.75         83.15          1395.37       11645.97        2802.92        500.00         3003.OS        042.            037.39           0.0o         2M2.86         t37.39
0/09               3356.67       12740.75        0S3.08         1395.37       21710.01        2063.96        58.00          3022.04        060.02            9.U            0.00        2310.4          37.0I
09/10              3323.01       31740.75        8435.74        1395.17       3377.9          2045.29        5806.00        3040.72        0730.27        3  9I.1s          0.40         232.34        3119.15
10/oi              3271.51       12740.75        8477.24        3395v         11e82.9         2026.90        516.0          3039.30        0769.70        0155.90           0.00        3'4. 7         u£31.0e
11112              3232.06       11740.75        3536.69        1395.37       2l30.94         208.70         50.00          3077.22        B00.71         3390.24           0.00        2361.0'        3190.24
12/3               33194.56      11740.75        354.19         239.7         1293.27         2790.93        5 .00          305.07          041.20           32             0.00        2373.41         222.32
3/14               3150.93       3174L.75        39.04          195.37        11936.03        2713.35       S50.00          3112.6           73.37        02.3              0.00        219.70         852.23
14/15              3125.02       11748.75        *23.73        1339.37        12033.30        275.04         5 .00          32.9           0903.34         00.10             .OO        m0.17          30.30
15/16              3092.00       11748.75       a0.95           139.37        12070.25        2730.90        50.00          3147.02        0931.23        00.05        -20291.00        22.73         2u04.0
.........  .................  I..............  ...........................  .....    .....  I.................................................................
Presnt Value at el OiKaut *                        40715.39                                                                                                                              s59.23           s5 .00
Prnent Value At 101 Dstcount a                     3044.33                                                                                                                                 51473          -231.53
Pretnt Value at 122 Dkscount a                     20330.32                                                                                                                                440.20         -132.30
t at          at lot         at 121
aerae Increental Econeic Cost of MIter IM/ialonl *                              0.001235       0.0013m        0.0015762
Averge Incrmntal Ecooec Cost of Mater at 270 c/os0(cel1000 gal.) *    332.5007025    377.206932    425.583142                                                                                  13             0.O9
Abrep Increwttl Econsic Cost d dater Itl/a   *                                  0.2700078      0.3063116      0.3455956
Aerag  Ecmic Tariff of bter i  199 at 1900 Pries Icndis/ioOal.) a   350.331000S              350.331000    350.3310000
Arage Econ01ic Tar&ff of llter in 192 n  I of AIEC 1U                              1 05.36         92.00          82.32                                                                                                             II
"'U'



-92 -                        ANNEX 5-1
Table 6
TABLE 6a Distribution of Income in Ghana
Mean Per Capita           Estimated Mean Urban Per
Decile of       Expenditure, 1987-88      Capita Expenditure (cedis/caplv)
Population      (cedis/cap/y)                87-88               Mid. 88
1.                 14,337                   17,581              19,497
2.                 22,307                   27,354              30,336
3.                 28,722                   35,220              39,059
4.                 35,057                   42,989              47,675
5.                 41,870                   51,353              56,940
6.                 49,314                   60,471              67,063
7.                 57,491                   70,499              78,183
8.                 70,485                   86,432              95,854
9.                 90,806                  111,351             123,488
10.                177,713                  217,921             241,675
All Ghana           58,714                   71,998              79,846



- 93 -                                         ANNEX 5-1
Table 7
Table 7. Poverty Threshold and the Shae' of the Poor
in Urban Population in 1988
(IJnit:cedis/person)
............................     .       .       ... .
Income/Day Incoae/Month  Income/Year         Z Share
(cedis)       (cedisl        (cedis)  of the Poor
I(2
.............         .....  ......... .....a......... .....  a.     .. ........
Relative Poverty threshold                                       35,000             20
of the NO
Absolute Poverty Level in                                        53,698             40
Social Indicators of IB
Minimum Wage                            143                      44,616             30
Taxi Driver                                         4,000        48,000             35
. .............. ......       . .......................................... ...
Average                                                          45,326
a.. *...a.*.t.......... ......     ....... ............
NOTES:
(1) The relative poverty threshold defined by the World Bank for a
person ltving in an urban area is 502 of per capita GDP.
The per capita GDP of Ghana in 1908 is estimated at about cedis
70,000.
(2) The absolute poverty level was estimated in Social Indicators of
Development 1988 by the bt. It was 351 cedis per capita in 1975.
Inflation rate from 1975 through 1988 twas 15,207%. Multiplication
of these two numbers produces 53,688 cedis per year.
(3) The minimum wage in 1989 is 143 cedis/day.   ssuming 26 working days
per month, the minimum wage is 44,616 cedis/year.
(4) The mission collected monthly incomes of four taxi drivers in
Accra and Koforidua, which were 4,000, 8,000, 8,000 and 12,000.
Taking the lowest of the four, the annual incose was estimated
at 48,000 cedis for d taxi driver.



ANNEX 5-1
Table 8
Table 8. The Share of Ibter Espditure in Incou in I91 at 1933 Price
(ULnits cedis ad 2)
Dc11         llan Incom    rnin Incos    Share of NH Ihter Expenditure I- Nonthly Incooo (K)
Icsp/yr        I/mon ............
Rid 1916           I"9           Stand Pipe    stved Prmises          twred Proems
(etdis)        Icedis)        c172 IHN/mon         c172 /HHI/on        c45  IHNN/on
1.0              19,497          7,343                  2.3                 2.3                  6.2
2.0              30,336         11,426                  1.5                  1.5                 4.0
3.0              39,0N          14,711                  1.2                  1.2                 3.1
4.0              47,675         17,95b                                                           2.6
5.0              56,940         21,446                                                           2.1
6.0              67,063         25,259                                                           1.9
7.0              76,193         29,447                                                           1.6
9.0              95,954         36,102                                                           1.3
9.0             123,463         46,511                                                           1.0
10.0             214,675         80,955                                                           0.6
Aver.             79,846         30,073                  0.6                 0.6                  1.5
MUTE5s
11) The man ineom  per sooth per household as cosputed by
multiplying the second colu  by the houshold size 14.28 persons)
and the inoem  growth rate (5.6K for 3 years) and dividing it by 12 smths.
12) The water apenditure for the stand pipe NH was coeputed au follows.
The tariff rate as of July 19  is c16O /priu/seonth.  On avrage
one premise in this category contains 6 persons (source: the
feasibility study by lnall a prneise being interpreted am a house).
Dividing 6 by the averae  HH size 4.29, one proeise contains 1.4 HHs.
Dividing 160 by 1.4,  onthly tariff per Hl is estimted at c114/month.
The real tariff increan through 1991 will be 50.72. Multiplying
114 by 1.507, the tariff in 1991 Ns estimated at c172/HH/onth.
(3) The water expenditure of a NH in in unmetered prnise was computed as
follow.  The rate as of July 193  is c320 /prnisr/aonth. The num-
ber of persons per premise in metered and unetered preis  ranged
from 12 to 24 in 1987 (source:t  hal Consuting Engineer, Peter
Supply Sector Rehabilitation Study, Sep. 1989). It us assumed
conservatively to be 12 persons per praise in 1990 (note that the
tariff was estimated for 1I91 but the demand was estimated for 190).
Dividing 12 by the average NH size 4.29, one premise
con4ains 2.9 HNs. Dividing 320 by 2.8, monthly tariff
per NH was estimated at c114 /month. Multiplying 114 by 1.507,
the tariff in 1991 at 1918 prices as estimted at 172 c/month.
(4) The ater expenditure of a OH in a ettered prmise was computed as fol-
lon. The avrage number of proni per mp tered preis  was
estimted at 15 in 1990 (source: ibid.).
Since the average water consumption was asumd to be 52 lcd in 19f,
the  ater consuption per premise was estimted at 5,131 gal/month.
Applying the 1988 tariff schedule for etered proeises, the monthly
water charge per premis would be 1,066 cedis (3000/10003160 t
2131/10001275). Dividing 15 persons/premise by the average
HH size 4.28, one premise contains 3.5 Hls.
Dividing 1,066 c/praise by 3.5 NH/premise, the water expenditure
per NH was estiuted at 304 c/month. Multiplying 304 by the real
rate of tuiff increase through 191I 1.507), the water expenditure
per NH as estimated at 458.4 c/month in 199i at 198B prices.



- 95 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
WATER SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Documents Available in the Proiect File
Document
No.
A.  Institutiom and Sector
1.  Ghana Water and Sewerage Act, 1965
2.  Republic of Ghana, Water Supply and Sanitation
Sactor Study,  World Health Organization/                       D22949
World Bank Cooperative Prngramme (February 1983)
3.  Study on GWSC Manpower, Staffing, Organization and
Management, Final Report, Public Administration
Service and Tahal Consulting Engineers, Ltd.
- Manual of Accounting Related Financial
Procedures (June 1986)                                        D01599
- Training Report (August 1986)                                 D00065
- Organization of Management (January 1987)                     D01328
- Manpower Utilization (January 1987)                           D01329
- The Organizational Structure                                  D01705
4.  GWSC Rolling Corporate Plan 1988-1991 (Revised
October 1988)
5.  Draft GWSC Performance Contract (June 1988)                     D20341
6.  GWSC Collective Bargaining Agreement (October 1985)             D14231
7.  GWSC Conditions of Service for Senior Staff                     D14232
8.  Memo to files   GHANA - Water Sector Rehabilitation         Correspondence
Project - Impact of Overstaffing on Financial and                File
Operating Performance
B.  Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1.  Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation, Five-Year                 D23276
Rehabilitation and Development Plan (July 1986)
2.  Water Supply Sector Rehabilitation Study, Volume One:           D20342
Main Report and Appendices A to H, Tahal Consulting
Engineers Ltd. (Septemt.:c 1988)
3.  Water Supply Sector Rehabilitation Study, Volume Twos           D20343
Appendix I, Project Profiles, Tahal Consulting Engineers
Ltd. (September 1988)



- 96 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 2 of 3
4.  Water Supply Sector Rehabilitation Study, Volume Three:         D20344
Technical Memoranda, Tahal Consulting Engineers Ltd.
(September 1988)
5.  Water Supply Sector Rehabilitation Study, Survey of             D23075
Package Treatment Plants, Paterson Candy International Ltd.
(May 1988)
6.  ATMA Development and Investment Progrsmme 1990 (Draft),         D20345
Tahal Consulting Engineers Ltd. (August 1988)
7.  Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation, Five-Year                 D23177
Rehabilitation and Development Plan (1987-1991),
Project Profiles
8.  Report on the Water and Sanitation Conference,                  D23077
September 23-25, 1987
9.  Appraisal Report, Accreu-Tema Water Supply Rehabilitation       D20346
Project, African Development Bank (May 1988)
10. Report on Hydrological and Water Resources Computations         D20347
for the Cape Coast Water Supply Project,
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Gert A. Schultz and Dipl.-Ing. Andreas
Dafinis (February 1977)
11. Koforidua and Sunyani Water Supply Systems and Central          D20348
and Base Workshops in Tema and Kumasi, Feasibility
Study, Final Report, Volume 3: Central and Base
|           ~~~Workshops, AEW Plan GMBH in association with Tahal
Consulting Engineers Ltd. (August 1985, October 1987)
12. GWSC Annual Requirement of Water Treatment Chemicals            D20349
(September 1988)
13. Koforidua Water Supply System, Preliminary
Updating Review of Feasibility Study, Tahal Consulting          D23076
Engineers (November 1988)
14. GHANA - Water Sector Rehabilitation Project - Detailed
Description of the Rehabilitation and Expansion
of 37 Water Supply Systems (November 1988)
15. Request for Proposals for Consulting Services for
Engineering Design and Supervision of Construction
(April 1989)
16. Request for Proposals for the Project Management
Consultant (April 1989)



- 97 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 3 of 3
17. Draft Terms of Reference for the Training Management
Consultant (February 1989)
18. Draft Request for Proposals for Consulting Services
for the Accra Sewerage System Improvements Study
(April 1989)
19. Draft Request for Proposals for Consulting Services for
the Reduction of Unaccounted-for Water (April 1989)
C.  Financial and Economic Analysis
1.  GWSC Draft Consolidated Accounts for the Year Ended
31 December, 1987
2.  GW3C Proposal for Capital Restructuring (December 1988)         D23074
3.  Cross-Debt Clearing House System - Letter of Agreement
(April 1989)
4.  GWSC - Ten Year Financial Projections - Workpapers              D23178
5.  GWSC Operations and Maintenance Budget 1988                     D23573
6.  GWSC Water Tariffs - Effective January 1 and July 1, 1989
7.  GWSC Audited Annual Accounts 1984, 1985 and 1986                D04603
AF4IN
May 1989



.'~~~~  ~ ~ ~ M L I, UKINA ~ASO-
B L' R K I N A  F A 5 0h_ <       owlb> J+   !oi            ,    RN AO     j  
R e g 1o: n        >_.h$           v            e  
'\    )   (>  D eboya    X               w        ,}~~~~~~~~~~~Go7o9
Reg N    o  r/               e.one
C O T E 4    X     t                            t     0 4
D'I V O I R E |\) ¢         wn  
oor 8-                            N.ap )0  T O G O
To .  Ato. q
/)¢ B r o n                     b                       4ipb  c
BotoL nAbo,    Soro ,  E     a  t_
te/'>r'-"XGwso~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aeoto            i
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
P  e  ;      -~  Avnfos
'' .  ' "  1 . _                - .      - ~~~*NA -             -
--  '  _+   rf  _             - -       ~~~~WAT,ER SECTOR
6 .  0                             REHABIUTATION PRQJECT
Ny-hi~
B-di. ~ ~                                 Ao ,    Fcrafl
_          '                                                 -0   -                 _ - ___



