Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2039 GH
               (Water Sector Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
               GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
                        Dated July 28, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2039 GH
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  July   28,   1989,  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)  and  GHANA  WATER AND
SEWERAGE CORPORATION (GWSC).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith  between  Republic  of   Ghana  (the  Borrower)  and  the
Association, the Association has  agreed  to make available to the
Borrower an amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to nineteen
million   three   hundred    thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 19,300,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition that GWSC
agree to undertake such obligations  toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and GWSC, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit  Agreement will be made available
to GWSC on the terms  and  conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS GWSC, in consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01.  GWSC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to  this  end,  shall  carry out the Project
with  due  diligence  and   efficiency   and  in  conformity  with
appropriate administrative,  financial, engineering, environmental
and public utility practices,  and  shall  provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by  the provisions of the Schedule to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. GWSC shall carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04. GWSC  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, GWSC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  2.05.  (a)  GWSC  shall,   at  the  request  of  the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of the  Project,  the  performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and  under  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  GWSC  shall  promptly  inform  the  Association  of  any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by  GWSC  of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (c)  GWSC shall annually  review  with  the  Borrower and the
Association its performance  under  the Project against monitoring
indicators  agreed  upon  among   GWSC,   the  Borrower,  and  the
Association.
     Section  2.06.  GWSC  shall  replenish  the  counterpart fund
account referred to in Section  6.01 (c) of the Development Credit
Agreement up to the  initial  amount  of 50,000,000 Cedis whenever
the remaining  balance  in  said  account  falls  below 20,000,000
Cedis.
     Section 2.07. GWSC shall:
     (a)  furnish to the  Association  for  its  review, not later
Page  3
than September 30  in  each  year,  GWSC's draft rolling corporate
plan and draft performance contract as well as its proposed three-
year investment program; and
     (b)  finalize thereafter such  documents  taking into account
the Association's comments.
     Section 2.08. GWSC shall:
     (a)  employ, not later than  two  months after receipt of the
final detailed design for the  raising  of the Brimsu dam, a panel
of experts acceptable to  the  Association  for the review of such
design; and
     (b)  furnish   to   the    Association,    not   later   than
January 1, 1992, a program  acceptable  to the Association for the
periodic inspection of selected  dams  which  provide water to the
supply systems under the Project.
     Section 2.09. GWSC  shall  implement the manpower improvement
program under  Part  B.2  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with a
timetable acceptable to the Association.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of GWSC
     Section 3.01. GWSC shall carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance  with sound administrative, engineering,
financial, environmental and  public  utility  practices under the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. GWSC shall  at  all  times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property, and from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals  thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
     Section  3.03.  GWSC  shall   take   out  and  maintain  with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  GWSC  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  GWSC shall:
          (i)  have   its   records,   accounts,   including   the
               counterpart fund account,  and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently   applied  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year:  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited;
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
Page  4
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, GWSC shall produce, for each  of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year  ending  on  December  31,  1988,  funds from internal
sources equivalent to GWSC's annual capital expenditures incurred,
or  expected  to  be   incurred  (excluding  capital  expenditures
financed through external loans  and  grants) and its debt service
requirements for that year.
     (b)  Before September 30 in  each  of  its fiscal years, GWSC
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by GWSC and satisfactory
to the Association, review whether  it would meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a)  in  respect  of such year and the next
following fiscal year and shall  furnish to the Association a copy
of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  GWSC would not meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  for GWSC's fiscal years
covered by such  review,  GWSC  shall  promptly take all necessary
measures  (including,  without   limitation,  adjustments  of  the
structure  or  levels  of  its   rates)  in  order  to  meet  such
requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "funds  from  internal  sources" means the
               difference between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations,  net  non-operating  income and
                    any reduction  in  working  capital other than
                    cash; and
               (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                    including administration, adequate maintenance
                    and  taxes  and  payments  in  lieu  of  taxes
                    (excluding  provision   for  depreciation  and
                    other non-cash  operating  charges),  all cash
                    dividends  and  other  cash  distributions  of
                    surplus,  increase  in  working  capital other
                    than cash and  other  cash outflows other than
                    capital expenditures.
         (ii)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
        (iii)  The term "working  capital  other  than cash" means
               the  difference  between  current  assets excluding
               cash and current  liabilities  at  the  end of each
               fiscal year.
         (iv)  The term "current assets  excluding cash" means all
               assets other than cash which could, in the ordinary
               course of business,  be  converted into cash within
               twelve  months,   including   accounts  receivable,
               marketable  securities,  inventories  and  pre-paid
               expenses properly chargeable  to operating expenses
               within the next fiscal year.
          (v)  The   term   "current    liabilities"   means   all
               liabilities which will  become  due  and payable or
               could under circumstances  then  existing be called
Page  5
               for  payment   within   twelve   months,  including
               accounts payable,  customer  advances, debt service
               requirements, taxes and payments  in lieu of taxes,
               and dividends.
         (vi)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
        (vii)  The   term   "capital   expenditures"   means   all
               expenditures incurred on account of fixed assets.
       (viii)  Whenever, for  the  purposes  of  this  Section, it
               shall  be  necessary  to  value,  in  terms  of the
               currency of the  Borrower,  debt payable in another
               currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
               of the prevailing lawful  rate of exchange at which
               such  other  currency  is,  at  the  time  of  such
               valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
               such debt, or, in the  absence of such rate, on the
               basis of  a  rate  of  exchange  acceptable  to the
               Association.
     Section 4.03. Until the completion of the Project:
     (a)  GWSC shall not contract any additional long-term debt in
excess  of  $5,000,000   without   prior   consultation  with  the
Association;
     (b)  GWSC  shall  inform  the  Association  about  any grants
obtained by GWSC for the financing of non-piped rural water supply
systems; and
     (c)  GWSC shall  not  undertake  any  new investments, unless
GWSC has prepared  and  furnished  to  the Association feasibility
studies  with  respect  to   such  investments  demonstrating  the
technical, economic and  financial  viability  of such investments
and the adequacy of GWSC's implementation capability.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of GWSC thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the  date  twenty  years  after  the  date  of this
               Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
GWSC of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  6
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For GWSC:
          Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
          P.O. Box M194
          Accra,
          Ghana
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                DIRWAT                        2006 WATSEW GH
                Accra
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  GWSC,  may  be  taken  or executed by the
Managing Director or such other  person or persons as the Managing
Director shall designate in writing, and GWSC shall furnish to the
Association  sufficient  evidence   of   the   authority  and  the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                          Regional Vice President
                                                           Africa
                    GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
                    By /s/ Eric Otoo
                                        Authorized Representative
Page  7
                             SCHEDULE
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods  manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works may be  procured  under  contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the  equivalent  of  $1,000,000,  may  be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least  three suppliers from at least
two  different  countries   eligible   under  the  Guidelines,  in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $100,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
Page  8
retained  in  accordance  with  Section   4.01  (a)  (ii)  of  the
Development Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist  GWSC  in  carrying  out the Project, GWSC
shall  employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,  experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory  to  the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
