Report No: 19938
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Core ICR)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$104 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO AND FONDS D'EQUIPMENT COMMUNAL (FEC)
FORA
FIRST MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
PROJECT ID: P005517
L/C NUMBER: 36160; 36170
December 30, 1999
Inrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipient only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (MD)
At appraisal (January 1, 1993)
lDH= US$ 0.12
US$ I = 8.50 DH
At closing date ( June 30, 1999)
1DH =US$0.10
US$1=9.98 DH
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Note that the Government changed its FY dates three years ago to July 1 to June 30.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BM           Banque Al-Maghrib (Central Bank)
CDG          Caisse de Dep6t et de Gestion (Administrator of Insurance and Pension Funds)
CL           Collectivites Locales (Local Authorities)
FEC          Fonds d'Equipment Communal (Communal Infrastructure Fund)
TG           Tresorerie Generale du Royaume (General Treasury of the Kingdom)
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MOI          Ministry of Interior
TDMI         Training Directorate of the Ministry of Interior
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
VAT          Value Added Tax
Vice President:   Kemal Dervis
Country Manager/Director:   Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director:   Jean-Claude Villiard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Sonia Hammam
Responsible Staff:   Ekaterina Massey



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FIRST MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No
1 . Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   9
6. Sustainability                                                                      10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     15
9. Partner Comments                                                                    16
10. Additional Information                                                            18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P005517                                       Project Name: MUNICIPAL FINANCE I
Team Leader: Sonia Hammam                                 TL Unit: MNSID
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 29, 1999
1. Project Data
Name: MUNICIPAL FINANCE I                               LIC Number: 36160; 36170
Country/Department: MOROCCO                                               Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector. UM - Urban Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/19/88                                 Effective: 11/18/93
Appraisal:  05/21/93                                  MTR:
Approval:  06/10/93                                Closing: 06/30/99             06/30/99
Borrower/lImplementingAgency.  GOV.OF MOROCCO/FEC/MIN. INTERIOR/FEC
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Kemal Dervis                               Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:     Christian Delvoie                          Harinder Kohli
Sector Manager:      Jean-Claude Villiard                       Amir Al-Khafaji
Team Leader at ICR:   Sonia Hammam                              Julio Linares
ICR Primary Author:   Ekaterina Massey
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development SU
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
As stated in SAR, the project objectives were to:
(a) enhance the quality of communal infrastructure projects mainly by, first restructuring Fonds
d'Equipment Communal (FEC), including the introduction of consistent economic, financial, and technical
criteria for project selection, and, second upgrading the institutional capacity of local governments;



(b) improve the procedures and criteria for allocating the local share of the value-added tax (VAT) among
local governments and lay the basis for further improving local intergovernmental finance;
(c) expand and rehabilitate urban and rural communal infrastructure and related services throughout the
country;
(d) improve financial discipline of local governments so that in the long run they may be able to borrow
from commercial banks; and
(e) improve management systems in the local sector.
The development objectives were realistic and well timed. The project addressed what was seen as
the most critical concern in local finance, namely the inefficiency of local investment decisions. This
inefficiency was encouraged by a combination of. (a) the distribution of half of the VAT proceeds on the
basis of forecasted deficits that included debt repayment; and (b) the lack of incentives for FEC to concern
itself with municipal capacity to repay debt out of their own funds, given that communes were guaranteed
an operating subsidy out of VAT to cover debt service. Breaking this vicious cycle by putting in place a
rational system of incentives for local communes to save and invest responsibly, was a clear prerequisite
for any further reform in the municipal sector. Thus, the restructuring of FEC to improve its lending
criteria and reforming of theVAT distribution system were essential conditions for enhancing the quality of
infrastructure investment projects, encouraging greater financial discipline and reforming the local finance
system. It was understood from the very beginning that this process of reform would be an ambitious
undertaking, which would require sustained effort for many years.
The political risks were high and sustained effort was made to minimize them. In order to
consistently pursue the VAT reform agenda, the Government had to commit itself to striking a balance
between using this valued resource for its macroeconomic policy objectives, and providing the local sector
with reasonable means to finance investments in the wake of rapid urbanization and relatively low service
coverage levels. Intensive dialogue on sector issues, initiated at the project preparation stage, was continued
throughout project implementation and reinforced Government's resolve to carry through and maintain the
reform of the distribution of the local share of the VAT, and reinforcement of FEC institutional capacity.
3.2 Revised Objective:
NA
3.3 Original Components:
To achieve the challenging development objectives stated above, the project originally included the
following components:
(1) Funding for local investments in roads, water and sewerage, solid waste, and productive and
recreational facilities (US$176.5 million - 96.8 percent of total project cost). FEC was expected to make
subloans to local governments for about 250 subprojects;
(2) Technical assistance, training, and equipment to improve FEC's institutional capabilities, (US$0.8
million-0.4 percent of total project costs);
(3) Training for local governments' staff, including the construction of a training center, training of
-2 -



trainers, and related consultant services (US$2.3 million - 1.3 percent of total project costs); and
(4) Technical assistance, training and equipment to improve intergovemmental finance, and the central
government management systems related to the local sector (US$2.7 million- 1.5 percent of total project
cost).
At the time of appraisal, a pipeline of potentially eligible projects was identified. This mitigated
the risk of slow project execution that could have been easily caused by the limited project preparation
capacity of the local governments and lack of experience on the part of FEC in applying consistent
borrower and project eligibility criteria. Training and technical assistance for FEC and local governments
were expected to reduce this risk in the long run.
While the assistance to FEC was well designed from the outset, and the vision of the new FEC was
fully shared by the Bank and the Government, the training and technical assistance components for local
governments and intergovernmental management were too broadly designed, causing delays in the
agreement on specific measures and terms of reference for implementation, and eventually had to be
cancelled (US$4 million). Although the Government has not used loan funds allocated to training and
technical assistance, the Ministry of Interior has carried out a substantial training program of municipal
staff (most notably in 1995), based on project preparation work, but using tax resources. During
supervision, it was agreed that such a program, by and large, meets the requirements of the training
component. There were also training programs and technical assistance carried out by other donors (KfW,
USAID).
3.3 Revised Components:
The first two components were retained. The training and technical assistance components for local
and central governments were cancelled with the cancellation of the loan to the GOM.
Rating Component                                 Category             Cost
S     MUNICIPAL SUB-PROJECT FUNDING              Physical             176,500,000.00
S      INSTITUTIONAL IMPROVEMENT OF FEC          Institution-building    800,000.00
NR    TRAINING FOR LOCAL GOVERNMENTS            Institution-building           0.00
NR    INSTITUTIONAL IMPROVEMENT OF CENTRAL    Institution-building            0.00
GOVERNMENT UNITS
3.4 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry at the ICR stage is rated as satisfactory.
The project design was consistent with the main CAS priorities, as discussed at the Board in
February 1993, and aimed to: (1) enhance the efficiency of public sector management through the reform of
FEC and VAT distribution; (2) consolidate and deepen macroeconomic adjustment through improved local
sector performance; and (3) alleviate poverty and improve social indicators through improved coverage and
quality of essential services.
The project built on a large body of country and sector work and knowledge: a pilot project for
FEC (Loan 2272-MOR) for US$16 million, completed in 1989, and a sector report on local finance,
completed in 1990. The latter report (No. 8782-MOR) and follow-up reports during project preparation,
established a clear framework for dialogue between the Bank and Government of Morocco, on local and
- 3 -



intergovernmental finance issues in Morocco and reinforced the reform of the VAT distribution system. A
Bank report "Issues and Prospects in the Public Sector" (No.10157-MOR), emphasized that public
investment had been increasingly decentralized from the Central Government in the course of Morocco's
stabilization after the balance of payrnents crisis in 1983. Public savings, however, had not risen
commensurately outside of the Central Government. The report concluded that the existing VAT allocation
system had been an important element in preventing better savings performance by the local governments.
Therefore, the Bank strategy for Morocco placed high priority on upgrading the local sector as part of its
overall macroeconomic policy dialogue.
FEC's Policy Statement established in 1992, was consistent with Government policies, which had
been agreed to under the Bank-assisted Financial Sector Development project. Until December 1991, FEC
was a government agency responsible for appraising communal investment projects and channeling fiscal
resources to them under the management of the Caisse de Dep6t et de Gestion (CDG), and the general
supervision of Ministry of Interior (Mol) and Ministry of Finance (MoF). FEC was restructured in 1992,
and operated with the autonomy of a publicly-owned specialized, financial institution. A large pipeline of
potential projects complying with new eligibility criteria was quickly identified, and major Bank safeguard
policies were applied: the eligible subprojects were to be environmentally sound and no sub-projects
involving involuntary resettlement were to be eligible for Bank financing.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The main development objectives have been met satisfactorily.
1. A restructured FEC has improved the quality of local investments and increasedfinancial discipline at
the local level
The quality of local investment was expected to improve through, first, a restructuring of FEC and
second, upgrading of institutional capacity of local governments. Despite the cancellation of the training
and technical assistance component, aimed at directly upgrading local institutional capacity, the
restructuring of FEC operational procedures and application of consistent eligibility criteria for both
borrowers and projects, has impacted on the quality of projects.
Bank reviews of project proposals, evaluation and completion reports during supervision missions,
and on an ongoing basis, have found steady improvements in the quality of report analysis and project
proposals which conform to FEC's sound lending criteria. Municipalities are now more careful in selecting
projects to be financed by loans, since they are faced with the full cost of borrowing and have to
demonstrate financial discipline to remain eligible for FEC financing of their investments. Current estimates
indicate that, overall, there is improved debt-carrying capacity. Previously, municipalities often used debt
to fnance marginal projects, and FEC was lax in approving such projects since it was guaranteed
repayment. However, municipalities are now far more prudent in seeking credit because they are finally
aware of the costs, recognize that projects must meet FEC's criteria, and face a hard budget constraint. The
reforms have induced greater financial discipline and eliminated the "soft" credit culture that had pervaded
municipal investment decisions. These improvements are being taken into consideration in the current
efforts to reform the municipal charter, which will provide municipalities with the ability to seek financing
from the banking sector.
-4 -



A critical element in achieving this objective was the adoption and application of the FEC Policy
Statement of 1992, which set out operational procedures and introduced objective economic, financial, and
technical criteria for project selection, for the first time. These included:
(a) eligibility criteria, among which the most important is a requirement for eligible municipalities to have
debt service/ordinary resources ratio of no more than 0.40 (for regies a ratio of operating costs to operating
revenues of 0.70); and a requirement that gradually increased municipal contribution to project costs out of
own resources from 10 percent in 1996 to 15 percent in 1997 and to 20 percent by 1998 - thereby
increasing municipal ownership and commitment to projects financed by FEC;
(b) operational guidelines, requiring projects to meet technical and financial criteria and FEC to provide
technical assistance and carry out site visits during appraisal, supervision and post-evaluation and to
allocate its resources on a demand-driven basis; and
(c) reinforcement of FEC 'sfinancial viability, through sound policies and protection of its equity. Overall,
FEC has demonstrated a solid performance and has complied with its financial requirements.
FEC has transformed itself from essentially a cash window with some technical expertise, as a
department of CDG with no autonomy, accountability and institutional policy of its own, into a municipal
bank with a constantly improving management and accounting system, qualified staff, operating within a
stringent investment financing policy framework.
FEC loans have been sustained at an average of 22 percent of annual local investments in
infrastructure. However, the difference is that this amount of borrowing, after the VAT reforms, reflects
local capacity to assume debt out of own resources. Overall, FEC has clearly been able to lend
throughout the country and to even serve the smaller rural municipalities, notwithstanding the small size of
their projects and their limited debt service capacity. Projects financed by FEC are predominantly in rural
(45.8 percent) and urban (42.6 percent) municipalities. However, the bulk of the resources flow to urban
municipalities (including mid-size localities), reflecting their greater investment and debt service capacity.
Overall, FEC commitments were anticipated to be about an average of US$115 million p.a., at appraisal.
For the most part, it has been able to reach that target throughout the life of the project. At appraisal, it
was also assumed that FEC loan targets would "grow approximately with GDP and inflation." However,
FEC loans have grown in nominal, but not in real terms due to the slowdown in the economy, the time
required for it to test its procedures and for local governments to adapt to assuming responsibility for
managing their resources in the wake of the reform of the VAT transfers.
FEC lending by type of borrower ( projects)    1992    1993    1994    1995   1996   1997    1998
Urban                                  29.6%     6.0%    44.2%   55.3%  48.2%   43.1%   42.6%
Rural                                  56.8%    90.8%    53.3%   43.8%  43.4%   48.8%   45.8%
Metropolitan Area                       8.6%     2.1%    0.8%    1.0%   5.4%    5.0%    8.4%
R(gies                                  4.9%     1.1%     1.7%    0.0%   1.2%    0.0%    1.9%
Other                                   0.0%     0.0%     0.0%    0.0%   1.8%    3.1%    1.3%
Total                                   100%    100%    100%    100%   100%   100%    100%
- 5-



2. Distribution of the local share of the value-added tax (VAT) among local governments has been
rationalized.
The. procedures and criteria of allocating the local share of the VAT (30 percent of total VAT
proceeds) among local governments have been radically improved as a result of the reform of 1996 (one
year later than originally planned). Prior to the reforms, about half of the allocation of the VAT due to
municipalities was to cover operational deficits and most of the share intended for investments was
allocated for centrally determined investments. Currently, seventy percent of the local share of the VAT is
being distributed in accordance with objective criteria in a single transfer, thus fulfilling the second main
objective of the project and providing municipalities with a predictable resource to use for locally
determined investments. VAT resources currently account for about 17 percent of the local investmnent
budgets. The current system has replaced discretionary capital transfers and current transfers based on the
estimated current budget deficits of each local government. Though it is still too early to draw conclusions
about the impact of the reform, the following important effects can be identified at this stage:
(1) Change of incentives. The new system has improvedfinancial discipline by removing the incentives to
underestimate revenues and overestimate expenditures and to use debt for marginal projects. These
practices were pervasive under the previous distribution system based on forecast municipal budget deficits
that included debt service. Fiscal effort enters into the formula and encourages collection of taxes and, in
principle, should increase reliance on own resources.
(2) Increase in predictability and amount of resources. The reform has increased the predictability of local
government revenues and eliminated the ex-post budgetary subsidy (subvention d'equilibre), thus finally
making true capital budgeting and programming possible. According to data provided by the Ministry of
Interior, 80 percent of municipalities now realize savings, while before the reform, only 20 percent did. If in
the year of the reform 70 percent of the local governments saw their VAT resources double, in 1998/99
already, 90 percent of local governments experienced such an increase, while rural communities have
benefited slightly more.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Local Investments
The project was supposed to finance around 250 local infrastructure projects with the total
estimated cost of US$176.5 million. The total number of projects selected for Bank financing was 254 with
the total FEC loans at appraisal of US$186 million (at 8.96DH/$). However, 16 of the projects were later
disqualified due to inadequate local procurement arrangements. In the end, Bank financing was retained for
238 sub-projects, with the total appraised FEC loan amount of US$176.9 million. Total cost of the
sub-projects at appraisal, as reported by FEC, amounted to US$212 million. Thus, FEC has financed 88
percent of the total project costs estimated at appraisal. The data for total actual cost of sub-projects has
been reported, but it is incomplete and amounts to US$120.9 million, which is reflected in annex 2. In the
preparation of this ICR, the mission attempted to obtain the final cost of the sub-projects from FEC, but
was unable to do so. At the early stages of becoming a financial intermediary, this municipal bank has not
had a monitoring system put in place that would track the actual developments on the ground on a
consistent basis, after the last tranche of its credits have been disbursed. The problem has been identified
by the Bank teams and is being addressed. FEC is aware of the need to know the actual costs of the
projects, in order to better assess the realism of appraisal estimates and the impact of the projects on the
financial health of the municipalities. The analysis below is based on loan amounts committed by FEC.
- 6 -



Service          Number of Projects %      Bank Disbursements, DH  %     FEC loans, DH      %
SW                            102   40.2%             155,941,732    17.4%       248,734,000    14.9%
Commercial facilities          60   23.6%             176,223,757    19.7%       367,123,000    22.0%
Roads                          37   14.6%             326,705,837   36.5%        558,427,000    33.5%
Public Facilities              25    9.8%             110,895,108    12.4%       262,910,000    15.8%
Potable Water                  12    4.7%              19,722,500    2.2%         39,735,000    2.4%
Sewerage                       10    3.9%              71,982,330    8.0%        133,630,000    8.0%
Electrification                 7    2.8%              29,234,100    3.3%         47,830,000    2.9%
Buses                           1    0.4%               5,320,000    0.6%          7,600,000    0.5%
No Bank financing              16    6.3%                                       80,422,000.00   4.8%
Total                         254    100%             896,025,364    100%       1,665,989,000    100%
Solid waste projects dominated, accounting for 40 percent of the operations, while representing
only 15 percent of investments. Revenue-generating projects, like souks, wholesale markets, boutiques, and
slaughterhouses represented 24 percent of projects and 22 percent of total financing. Roads, accounted for
15 percent of the operations and 34 percent of financing. Project mix reflects priority needs of local
communities identified at the time of appraisal: rehabilitating and expanding urban and rural infrastructure
to provide improved access and quality of life, income and employment-generation opportunities.
Technical Assistance to FEC
This component was implemented according to the action plan agreed at appraisal, and included:
improvement in management and staffing; assistance to install an independent accounting system, based on
a USAID study; and training for staff and study visits abroad, as well as ongoing improvements in the
management system.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
According to FEC's eligibility criteria, all sub-projects approved had to show a minimum ERR of
10 percent and those of revenue-earning enterprises, a financial rate of return at least two percentage points
above FEC's lending rate. In the course of the project, the economic analysis of the project was
strengthened, a new directive was passed in 1997, and now selection of the least-cost solution is required to
satisfy FEC's eligibility criteria. FEC also insists on cost-recovery and accounting for operation and
maintenance expenditures as a minimum. The ERR for a sample of sub-projects is not recalculated at the
ICR stage primarily because the data to do this is not available. Another reason is ethodological: 40
percent of operations are in solid waste removal, and have benefits that are hard to quantify, especially if
such a task is expected to be performed by the municipal staff. The applicability and reliability of ERR
calculations have been discussed with the borrower and with the task managers of similar projects in the
Bank and it is believed that monitoring the loan repayment ability of municipalities gives a more
meaningful indicator of the cost efficiency of investments. In the case of FEC, loan repayment records
indicate very insignificant levels of arrears.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is substantial. In fact, the project's strongest contribution is
implementation of the institutional dimension of its components.
- 7 -



As mentioned previously, FEC has been turned into a full-fledged bank, and the GOM agreed that
it be transformed into a joint stock company. FEC has undergone major organizational changes since the
start of the project. The first step was the promulgation of FEC's new organic law and the passage of the
decree implementing the law in 1992. Under the new law, FEC was both a Public Establishment, subject to
the control of MOF, and an entity with the status of a financial institution, subject to the supervision of the
Central Bank (Banque AI-Magrib). A Board of 18 members, reporting to MOI and MOF, was created to
govern FEC, and a credit committee was set up and consisted of the government officials; the Director
General was appointed by the King. The annual lending program was also subject to MOI and MOF
approval.
Staffing of FEC was reinforced, it grew from 44 (32 professionals) at the time of appraisal to
almost 90 people. At appraisal, the staff was qualified but insufficient to appraise and supervise projects
adequately. A number of middle managers and professionals (engineers, financial analysts, environmental
specialists), were hired. A consultant provided training of FEC staff on appraisal and supervision of
sub-projects. Conventions were signed with the Ministry of Public Works for sub-contracting a part of the
supervision workload. This practice was later discontinued due to reticence at the interministerial level.
With the assistance of USAID funds, an independent accounting system was put in place. It
permitted the staff to share data expeditiously. Currently, this MIS system is being further upgraded with
the help of KfW funds, in order to be fully integrated with the operational activities. Staff went on study
tours to Credit Local de France, and similar institutions in Spain and Belgium .
Major changes took place in FEC's operational and credit practices. Although an adequate
methodology for project evaluation was introduced by the Bank-assisted Pilot Project, staff failed to visit
the borrower and the project site in the beginning. Site visits and technical assistance in appraisal of
projects has become routine, and new improved guidelines on economic analysis of the projects were
adopted in 1997 and contributed significantly to project quality. Credit practices, which had been lax prior
to the project, have also improved dramatically: borrower eligibility criteria require increasing cofinancing
of the project costs by the borrower (20 percent by 1998), and rely on evaluation of borrower capacity to
incur debt.
At appraisal, FEC's financial performance was very weak. It had a financial margin of 0.0-0.5
percent, problems of compromised short-term liquidity, insufficient equity, and consequently, unsustainable
debt-to-equity ratios. Overall, during the course of the project, FEC has demonstrated a solid performance
and has complied with its financial requirements (except profitability and debt-to-equity ratio until 1996,
but after a capital increase of DH 120 million in 1997, it has maintained a capital adequacy ratio above the
minimum of 8 percent). FEC has also been trying to reduce its cost of funds, and consequently, its lending
rates which have traditionally been 1 to 2 percentage points higher than market rates. At project's end, it
has managed to reduce its rates to be on par with commercial banks lending at similar maturities. In
mid-1996, FEC became a full-fledged bank, following approval of its statutory change by the Parliament
and is now subject to Central Bank regulations. It operates without government guarantee of its bonds.
While training of local governments was not carried out as planned, there has been, as previously
noted, a marked improvement in the quality of local investment projects and decisions, due to the eligibility
procedures of FEC and the incentives introduced through the reform of the VAT transfers.
- 8 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During the project implementation period, the Moroccan economy experienced a nearly zero real
GDP per capita growth, with a 10 percent negative growth in 1995. That explains, in part, the
sluggishness in national and local investment demand. Since 1992, local investment has remained at the
same level of US$500 million p.a. Given the fact that the project was designed to improve subnational
financing and investment, such an unfavorable macroeconomic situation became a factor outside the scope
of the Borrower control. While this did not affect FEC's capacity to absorb Bank project resources and
maintain an annual volume of about DH I billion, it did have an impact on overall projected lending by
FEC, which had been projected to increase in tandem with inflation and GDP growth, as well as real
growth in local resources, both from local taxes and VAT transfers.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Overall, there was a high level of Government commitment to the reforms planned within the scope
of the project. Such commitment brought about its successful completion, while concurrently launching a
Second Municipal Finance Project. The scope and speed of project implementation were affected by the
pace of the decentralization reform process. It takes time for the municipal sector to adapt to new policies
and new responsibilities. The restructuring of FEC and the VAT reform have been a major breakthrough
both on the supply and the demand side of local investment. Although the Government has trained of local
staff, improved local capacity could have advanced more if the training component had, indeed, been
implemented as planned. This may have also encouraged Government to relax some of the inherent
constraints imposed by Central Government management of treasury functions in the interest of overall
public expenditure management, and extensive a priori approval which slow down municipal investments.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
FEC has performed well, and has increased its management effectiveness, improved its finances,
rationalized its operations and staffing, performed training, and increased the quality of its portfolio.
However, more attention should have been paid to monitoring and evaluating project implementation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Loan 36160-MOR was fully disbursed on time; disbursements proceeded well and on schedule.
Loan 36170-MOR, in the amount of US$4million, was fully cancelled on May 15, 1996, when it became
clear that the Government was not going to implement the training component.
-9-



Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million equivalent)
FY94      FY95      FY96      FY97      FY98      FY99
Appraisal estimate              8        39        72        95       103       104
Estimate after cancellation                        68        91        99       100
Actual                        11.5      36.9      67.6      85.6      98.7      100
Actual as % of Estimate      144%       95%     99.4%     94.1%     99.7%    100.0%
Date of final disbursement                                                   7/13/99
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is rated as likely.
At project completion, it is clear that there are strong prospects that the achievements of
development objectives, (described in Section 4), will be maintained. The project has been a part of an
ongoing dialogue between the Bank and the Government on developing a long term strategy for improving
financing and investment in the municipal sector. In February 1998, a Second Municipal Finance Project in
the amount of US$70 million, became effective. The achievements of the project are not only likely to be
sustained, but have been essential building blocks in the GOM strategy for strengthening the municipal
sector. Further reforms are now being sought to increase local autonomy, corporatize FEC, and develop a
more competitive municipal credit market serving local investment needs.
I.Sustainabilty of FEC:
As a result of the project, the efficiency of FEC has dramatically increased. FEC now operates as a
municipal bank without government guarantee on its bond issues, with a proper and constantly improving
management and accounting system and well-trained staff, operating within a stringent investment
financing policy framework. The results of the Strategy Study, commissioned by FEC, have been
incorporated into the new institutional structure designed to strengthen FEC's ability to better manage its
project portfolio and develop a closer relationship with its municipal clients.
At the start of the project, FEC's finances were fragile. Because of a slim financial margin of
0.0-0.5 percent, FEC had virtually no profits and was gradually eroding its modest equity in real terms. In
1998, FEC achieved a net intemediation margin of 2.29 percent and thus, significantly increased its return
on assets and supported the real value of its equity. Although profitability has been historically low
throughout the project, FEC has been persistent in attempting to lower its cost of borrowed funds in order
to remain a competitive provider of long-term finance. By project's end, it is in a position to offer loans at
fixed interest rates of 11.25 percent and variable rates of 9.75 percent that are fully competitive with the
rates charged by other banks on loans with similar maturity (10-15 years). Administrative expenses were
carefully controlled, and capital to risk-weigted assets ratio has been much higher than internationally
accepted minimum of 8 percent.
- 10 -



FEC Financial Ratios
Ratio*                                     1993  1994  1995    1996   1997  1998
Annual Return (percent)
(annual return as percent of the average current net value
of total assets)
goal          0.5   0.8       1.0    1.2   1.2
actual  0.07   0.06   0.12    0.16    1.02    1.2
Administrative Expenses (percent)
(total administrative expenses to average net value of
total assets)
ceiling        0.75   0.75    0.75     0.9   0.9
actual  0.24   0.54   0.51    0.52   0.56   0.63
Debt to Equity
goal    15     15    15        15     12    12
actual  15.8  16.4  17.97    14.8   9.88   8.26
Financial Indicators of the Second Minicipal Finance Project apply for 1997 and 1998
1997  1998
Net Intermediation Margin (percentage points)
(instead of annual return)
goal                                 1.9   1.9
actual                                1.53   2.29
Capital to risk-weighted assets (percent)
(instead of debt to equity ratio)
minimum                                    8      8
actual .                             24.08  34.88
The basic rationale for changing two covenanted financial indicators in 1997, was: (a) the change
of FEC's status to a regulated financial institution in 1996; and (b) the project objective of strengthening
FEC as a commercially viable financial institution. As a result, using internationally recognized financial
ratios (that are used by the Central Bank) to monitor FEC's financial viability, was considered more
appropriate than the ratios used originally. Capital to risks-weighted assets and net intermediation margin
were chosen to monitor capital adequacy and income generation capacity, two critical indicators for a
financial institution.
As outlined in the table below, FEC has also succeeded in increasing the speed of disbursements on
its loans.
(billion DH)
1992    1993      1994    1995   1996   1997    1998
FEC's Annual Loans                        0.538    1.0671   1.008    0.98    1.18   1.04    0.95
Annual Disbursements                      0.079    0.446    0.349    0.75    0.93   0.94    0.79
Disbursements/Loan amounts                 15%      42%      35%      77%l   79%    90%       83%
-11-



Inevitably, FEC is facing constraints in its growth and a new generation of challenges which are
being addressed in the Second Municipal Finance Loan. It seeks to find a niche in the municipal credit
market that has opened up to commercial banks, and to diversify its lending portfolio to include the private
sector which is increasingly being engaged in the delivery of municipal services. FEC's annual volume of
lending has remained relatively constant. This reflects the stagnation in the level of funds devoted to
investments as local governments adjust to managing their resources without benefit of subsidies.
However, the numbers should be interpreted with caution, since the data series are quite short, and there is
a clear influence of the election cycle on the decrease of investment activity in 1996.
Share of FEC in the Resources of Local Governments
1993    1994    1995 1996/97 1997/98
FEC loans/total budget                   10.8   10.83      8.39    6.68    7.8
FEC loans/investment budget             23.27   24.41    21.77    20.7  24.11
Investment Budget/Total Budget           0.46 D   0.44     0.39    0.32   0.32
2. VAT and the local resource base:
The reform of VAT distribution among local governments may undergo further refinement, but the
overall framework in which this was introduced - to strengthen local finances and decentralization efforts -
is being pursued. The old deficit financing system and highly centralized use of VAT investment resources,
which were the cause of considerable inefficiency, have been eliminated. This reform has been a
cornerstone of decentralization efforts which are being reinforced further through an ongoing process of
reform of the 1976 Municipal Charter.
The reform of VAT distribution among local governments has had a major effect on the
predictability of local resources by replacing the deficit subsidy by a systematic allocation of most of the
local share of VAT to the budgets of local governments. Transparency of local resources has been
strengthened and accountability has increased. The process has been somewhat slowed down by insufficient
technical assistance and inadequate local staff mix in the sphere of financial planning, and lack of
continuity in local decision-making due to the current electoral system. Even though it is too early to draw
major quantitative conclusions about the effect of the reform, the figures, in the table below, point to the
fact that local governments seem to borrow less, knowing the limits of their repayment capacity, and that
they have started to improve their own resource base.
Revenues of Local Governements
(DH billion)
1988     %      1998     %
VAT Transfers             2.8   0.56      6.3  0.45
Borrowing                 0.5   0.10     0.95   0.07
Local Taxes and Other     1.7   0.34     6.75   0.48
Total Revenue               5              14
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
NA.
- 12 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Bank performance at identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was satisfactory. Prior
to this project, the Bank carried out a pilot project for FEC (Loan 2272-MOR), completed in 1989, and a
sector report on local finance, completed in 1990. The recommendations of the pilot project that FEC
monitors the execution of its projects more closely and be managed as an autonomous financial agent was
incorporated in the present project design. The Bank Sector Report (No. 8782-MOR), helped shape views
on the distribution of the local share of the VAT and other local government finance issues raised in the
government's development strategy. The restructuring of FEC and the VAT distribution reform were
designed to enhance the financial discipline of local governments and consequently, increase their savings.
Increased local savings were expected to bring a major contribution to enhancing the efficiency of public
sector management and deepen macroeconomic adjustment, one of the main pillars of the Bank Country
Assistance Strategy.
The staff mix and continuity at preparation and appraisal were adequate. Financial analysts and
municipal engineers provided the core expertise, peer reviewers and other Bank staff provided valuable
inputs. The financial arrangements were appropriate at the time the loan was signed: the Kingdom of
Morocco borrowed US$4.0 million for training and assistance to improve local sector management
systems. FEC directly borrowed US$100.0 million for financing its own institutional improvement and
on-lending for local investments at variable and fixed rates for a maximum term of up to 15 years. The
GOM guaranteed the foreign exchange risk on FEC's loan. Project conditionalities have, therefore, been
designed to enable FEC to fulfill this role by improving its sector financial policies and performance. The
loan amount and project execution period (one year less than the standard profile for municipal finance
projects), was well estimated given the pipeline of FEC projects, and the absorption capacity from
municipalities and regies at the time.
7.2 Supervision.
Overall supervision was satisfactory.
There were lapses in regular supervisions in FY97 and FY99 with changes in teams. The quality of
the documentation in project file has also suffered towards the end of the project. There was no Mid Term
Review, but some thorough reviews were performed by the team during the regular supervision mission in
March 1999 and an early assessment was undertaken during preparation of the Second Municipal Project
in FY97. Non-compliance with FEC's financial covenants and delays with VAT reform introduction caused
the Bank to downgrade the Implementation Progress Rating to Unsatisfactory in 1995. VAT reform
slippage from scheduled 1995 to 1996, caused a temporary freeze on new sub-projects approval. These
were resumed after a few months when Government commitment was obtained to introduce the reform as
soon as feasible. A break in supervision team continuity in 1996 had an impact on maintaining a dialogue
on municipal sector issues with the Ministry of Interior. Despite the importance of sectoral reforms for
ensuring the success of the project, there was very little dialogue between the Bank and the Ministry on
these issues, including progress on the PHRD-funded studies on local finance as of FY97. Attempts to
revive this dialogue were undertaken in FY99 and additional sector work is now ongoing.
- 13 -



7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory, with Bank staff cooperating closely with the
Government and the implementing agency in advancing the agenda of the project and developing a
longer-term sector vision. The Second Municipal Project, now under implementation is building on the
work done by the first project. With the reform of VAT and FEC restructuring completed, the strategy is
to transform FEC into a joint stock company, authorized to lend to privately-sponsored municipal projects,
following stringent, prudential, regulatory and financial measures to manage municipal credit risk. The
strategy has been pursued consistently and much has been accomplished, despite a break in team
continuity, that caused some problems in the quality of project supervision and institutional memory both
for the Bank and the Borrower, as noted above.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
At the preparation stage, the Borrower's main contributions, among others, were: (1) measures
taken to reinforce FEC; and (2) commitment to a successful launching of the VAT redistribution reform.
To ensure successful implementation of the project and to provide FEC with an adequate capital base, the
Government made local governments assume the rigies debts, and promised to make an equity contribution
of DH 70 million. Thus, an important step was taken to launch FEC as a viable financial institution. As a
result of these measures, its debt-to-equity ratio dropped from 50 to around 16 in 1993. A Decree was
passed implementing FEC's organic law and establishing FEC's Board, management and credit committees.
A dynamic Director General was appointed by FEC's Board.
The Government also insisted that the VAT distribution reform introduced in 1994, as proposed by
the Bank, seemed premature, given the 1992 change in the administrative structure that almost doubled the
number of municipalities. In the course of the project, the reform slipped from 1995 to 1996 due to
logistical problems, therefore, the timing concerns were warranted.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The implementation of VAT reform, despite slippage, was successfully carried out. The
Government undertook a dissemination program to inform the local governments about the new distribution
formula. The delay in the introduction of the reform did not cause any serious problems in project
implementation or achievement of development goals, but has had some effect on FEC disbursements, since
its evaluation criteria in terms of municipal debt could not be enforced until the VAT system was put in
place. Generally, slow approval procedures by the Ministry of Interior caused FEC disbursements to lag
behind commitments and imposed additional costs on the municipalities as a result of delays in approval of
projects. The training component had to be cancelled due to lack of commitment by the Government to use
loan funds for this purpose. Studies that were foreseen to further develop the local finance system were
eventually funded by a PHRD grant, but were completed only at the end of 1998--three years after they
were due--as a result of delays in MOI approval of the studies, and feedback on the reports. Monitoring
reports of local finance were not produced on a regular basis as originally planned.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
FEC generally complied with all major covenants and provided audits and other reports on time.
There was a period of non-compliance with the debt-to-equity ratio (in 1993-95), when the government did
- 14 -



not provide the agreed (non-covenanted) equity contribution. Financial performance indicators of the
Second Municipal Finance Project were applied to FEC in 1997, and it achieved full compliance in 1998.
The Borrower has sought to lower its cost of resources and succeeded in reducing its interest rates to levels
that are competitive with rates on loans of similar maturities by project's end. Overall, FEC has displayed
commitment to improving its structure and procedures. Monitoring and post-evaluation of projects, and
environmental assessments have improved over the course of the project, but still remain weak.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
Overall performance and participation of the Borrower were satisfactory, during both preparation
and implementation.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1.   The experience of the project has underscored the importance of establishing a sound
intergovernmental finance system with appropriate incentives in the process of decentralization. This has
been critical for both local governments and municipal finance institutions to perform their roles efficiently
and cooperate in the mutual learning process of sustainable municipal investment. A lot remains be done to
rationalize the allocation of powers and responsibilities between the Central Government (MOF and MOI),
local governments (including between communes and communautes), other agencies (like regies and public
developers), and the private sector, in order to improve the incentives and capacity of local governments to
manage their scarce resources. Efficient management of local resources and expenditures is critical for
building creditworthiness of local communities and sustainability of their investment programs, and is being
further addressed in the Second Municipal Finance Project.
8.2.   FEC's restructuring has created a solid financial institution, that is conscious of the best use and
protection of its own funds and the funds of its clients, urban and rural municipalities. The eligibility
criteria for projects and municipalities are being systematically applied at the selection stage, but equal
attention needs to be paid to stringent monitoring of implementation and post-evaluation so that the projects
do not put at risk future operations of the FEC. The first project has also made it clear that environmental
concerns were not fully integrated into the evaluation process. Environmental impact assessments are
being introduced in the routine operations in the framework of the second project.
8.3    The project focused on strengthening the local governments' ability to improve the selection of
development priorities, better manage local resource mobilization, and effectively deliver local services.
The SAR included extensive TORs for training of central staff, dealing with the local issues, and local
staff, that has almost doubled to 127, 000 with the increase in the number of urban and rural communes in
1992 (from 900 to 1,550). The component was dropped from the project after it became clear that the
Government was not willing to pursue the program as planned. The scope of the training was clearly
overestimated, as well as the readiness of the Government to finance training out of loan proceeds, when
some external grant financing could be mobilized. The project also made it clear that more precise
arrangements for training components have to be made from the very outset to avoid delays, and to ensure
better coordination with other development donors (KfW, USAID, etc.), who envision similar training
components.
8.4.   The importance of a focused strategy aimed at achievable objectives, and drawing on extensive
sector work has been reinforced by the experience of the project. Proactive supervision and agreement on
the priority development goals for the municipal financial institution and the policy ingredients are crucial
for advancing the agenda with the staff of FEC and at the Government level.
- 15 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Madame Sonia HAMMAM
Chef du Secteur Urbain
Groupe de Developpement de l'Infrastructure
Bureau Regional
Moyen Orient et Afrique du Nord
Banque Mondiale
Objet: Rapport d'achevement du Premier Projet de Financement Municipal (pret 3617 MOR).
Madame,
Faisant suite a votre fax du 16 decembre 1999, nous avons l'honneur de vous faire part des
remarques de forme ci-apres:
Concernant le chapitre 4 relatif a la realisation des objectifs et resultats, nous vous suggerons
de proceder a la modification suivante:
"Alors que pr6cedemment les municipalites n'utilisaient pas la dette d'une maniere satisfaisante
dans le choix de leurs investissements et que le FEC approuvait ces projets sans appreciation
du risque du fait..."
(le reste sans changement). Il s'agit de l'avant derniere phrase de la page 5.
Par ailleurs, la chapitre 4. (p 8) souligne qu'il n'a pas e possible d'obtenir du FEC le cofit final
des sous-projets. II y a lieu de preciser que cela est dfi au fait que tous les decomptes definitifs
ne sont pas encore disponibles.
Enfin, il y a lieu d'apporter les deux corrections suivantes:
le programme annuel des prets est assujetti a l'approbation du Conseil d'Administration
et non a celle des ministeres des Finances et de l'Interieur.
a3    la convention avec le ministere des Travaux Publics a e  interrompue pour des raisons
pratiques.
Veuillez agreer Madame, l'expression de ma consideration distinguee.
Mohamed OUDOR
Directeur des Engagements
- 16 -



1/    Conception et obiectif du proiet:
Le ler projet municipal aura fait assurement un choix judicieux des voies d'amelioration de l'acces
des collectivites locales au credit: A savoir la restructuration du FEC et la rationalisation des finances
locales. Les objectifs fixes au projet 6taient, par ailleurs, de nature A repondre aux attentes dudit projet.
II convient de souligner cependant que l'objectif consistant A etendre et A renover l'infrastructure
communale, a et contrarie par les mesures prises dans le cadre de l'objectif (a) relatif A l'acces des
collectivites locales au credit FEC.
L'entree en vigueur du projet a marqu6 une rupture avec la periode d'avant 1993 oil les communes
beneficiaient de taux dtint6r6t plus bas et qui etaient assortis d'une ristourne d'interet. Les normes
introduites, dans le cadre de ce projet, concernant aussi bien les modalites d'intervention que le
fonctionnement du FEC, n'ont pas manque d'exclure et de diff6rer certains investissements quand bien
meme ils etaient prioritaires. Pendant l'execution du projet, le FEC a et6 persu pendant longtemps comme
une institution inaccessible et trop chere pour une partie des collectivites locales.
Aussi, conviendrait-il de s'interroger si des mesures d'accompagnement n'auraient pas dui etre
prevues pour une phase transitoire. La conception initiale du projet aurait egalement gagne a integrer et
anticiper la transformation du FEC en Banque, facteur qui aura ete determinant dans l'alignement du FEC
sur les conditions du marche.
20/    Facteurs principaux affectant l'ex6cution et les resultats:
Au titre de ces facteurs, le Gouvernement a effectivement contribue pleinement A la mise en place
des reformes prevues. La contribution de l'Etat a porte egalement sur d'autres elements non pr6vus dans le
projet. II s'agit notamment de:
-      soutien exceptionnel dont le FEC a continue a beneficier de la part de l'Etat en matiere de
mobilisation d ressources exterieures et de renforcement des fonds propres.
-      la transformation du FEC en banque. Aussi bien pour l'execution du projet que pour la
viabilite du FEC, il s'agit d'un element qui aura ete determinant.
30/    Enseignements tires:
Concernant les lecons tirees, le 1 er projet de financement municipal a consacre et confirme le choix
judicieux du modele retenu pour le financement du secteur communal. Ce choix, consistant A opter pour un
intermrdiaire financier emergeant sur le budget de l'Etat, s'est revele judicieux et realiste:
-      Cette option a permis en effet de faire joindre l'effet de levier et de v6hiculer un volume
important de ressources prelevees sur l'epargne existante vers le secteur communal;
-.     A  l'bgard de l'objectif de preparer les collectivites locales A utiliser, d'une maniere
rationnelle, la dette comme instrument de financement de leurs equipements, I'option d'un interm ediaire
financier specialise aura e  plus appropriee que celle d'une ouverture rapide du secteur aux banques
commerciales.
Consideration distingu6e
Mohamed Oudor
Directeur des Engagements
- 17 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
NA.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA.
10. Additional Information
NA.
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
1. The quality of local investment improved   The quality of the sub-project portfolio  The application of consistent eligibility criteria
implementation have been reviewed and  and technichal assistance by FEC to both
found satisfactory.                    borrowers and projects had an impact on the
quality of projects that were submitted for
financing by local goveMments. The VAT
reform has made local govenments more
careful in setting investment priorities and
estimating what they can afford.
2. FEC becomes a viable financial     The financial situation of FEC is satisfactory. Since 1996 FEC is a full-fledged bank
institution, lending to municipal     It is in full compliance with the financial  complying with Central Bank regulations. It
borrowers and applies its lending criteria    performance indicators. Its commitments and has shown increasingly good financial
regardless of source of financing.    disbursements are proceeding well.     performance and by the end of the project
complied with all financial performance
indicators. It has also improved its rates of
disbursements, reduced its cost of funds
and is currently competitive with other
lending institutions of long-term finance. It
has maintained a diversified portfolio of local
investment projects whose quality has
significantly improved in compliance with its
lending criteria.
3. Distribution of local share of the  Reform introduced in 1996. The formula is  Reform of VAT distribution has had a
value-added tax (VAT) is rationalized and   in application since then and both rural and   positive effect on local resource management
made transparent.                      urban communes are getting their respective and budgeting practices.
share.
Achievement of FEC loan Targets of about $                                    FEC loans have doubled in 1993 and since
115 million a year, expected to grow with                                    then averaged about $ 113 per year in
GDP and inflation                                                            nominal terms.
Output Indicators:
1. Local Investment: about 250 municipal    Loan fully committed. Disbursements were at Loan fully disbursed and financed 235
investment projects, financing roads, water  98.6%.                          projects, of which 40% in Solid Waste, 24 %
and sewarage, solid waste, productive and                                    of commercial facilities, 18.5 % in roads and
reacreational facilities.                                                    sewerage.
2.Technical assistance to FEC to improve   FEC has transformed itself into a well  Technical assistance fully implemented
FEC's institutional capabilities, training and  staffed, efficient, independent institution.   according to the action plan agreed at
equipment to FEC.                     Policies and procedures of the Policy  appraisal. Further institutional strengthening
Statement of 1992 are consistently applied.  based on the identified new needs continues
However, weaknesses are identified in  in the framework of the Second
1) the quality of Environmental Impact  Project: 1) a fully integrated MIS system is
Assessemtents of projects; 2) monitoring    being put in place; 2) a new organigramme
and post-evaluation of projects.       being implemented, in particular, to reinforce
monitoring and post-evaluation and client
relations; 3) obligatory ElAs are being
implemented across the board.
End of project
- 19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proiect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I.Local Projects
Infrastructure                                     173.00          118.44          68.44
Studies and Designs                                 2.50             2.50            100
Institutional Development                            1.00            0.00              0
2. Institutional Improvement of FEC                      0.80             0.01           1.25
4. Institutional Improvement of Central Govemment Units  2.70             0.00             0
Total Baseline Cost                                    182.30           120.95
Total Project Costs               182.30           120.95
Total Financing Required               182.30           120.95
The actual cost is understated because it is based on the information that was available at the time ICR
preparation, which was incomplete. In Component I [Local Projects], US$1 million was reallocated from
Institutional Development to Infrastructure; Component 4 was cancelled.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements Apraisal Estimate) US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     4.60         143.40    ._  00            0.00         148.00
(2.80)      (79.40)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (82.20)
2. Goods                      2.40         3.00         22.40         0.00          27.80
(1.50)       (1.70)       (13.70)       (0.00)       (16.90)
3. Services                   0.00         0.00          0.00         6.50          6.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (4.90)        (4.90)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      7.00         146.40        22.40         6.50         182.30
(4.30)      (81.10)       (13.70)       (4.90)       (104.00)
- 20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procturement Method
-Exmpen5ture CategoNry.  -    iCB                                       N.8,.F.      Total Cost
.GB .R .   ..   . .  .      Other
1. Works                        0.00          109.05          0.00          0.00          109.05
(0.00)        (91.66)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (91.66)
2. Goods                        11.86          0.00           0.00          0.00           11.86
(8.30)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (8.30)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00           0.04           0.00          0.04
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.04)         (0.00)         (0.04)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                        11.86         109.05          0.04           0.00          120.95
(8.30)        (91.66)        (0.04)         (0.00)        (100.00)
The actual cost is understated because it is based on the information that is available at the time of the
preparation of the ICR that is incomplete. Only ICB data could be retrieved from the Bank procurement
reporting system. NCB is known to be the rest and was obtained by subtracting ICB from the total cost
reported.
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project fumds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equiv alent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate    Pcaop i
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.     CoF.    Bank  Govt.  CoF.
NOTE: Cof. Stands for                                                                0.0    0.0    0.0
FEC and Sub-borrowers
resources
1.Local Projects         99.20     0.00      77.30     99.99      0.00     20.92    100.8   0.0   27.1
2. Institutional         0.80       0.00      0.00      0.01      0.00      0.00     1.3    0.0    0.0
Improvement of FEC
3. Training for Local    4.00       1.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
Governements,
Institutional Improvement
of Central Government
Units
0.0    0.0    0.0
The actual cost is understated because it is based on the information that is available at the time of the
preparation of the ICR and that is incomplete.
- 21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
NA
-22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:                                      .                _
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implemertation     Development
Month/Year    Count      Specialty                       Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation
04/88
03/92                   3   Country Officer, Consultant,
Senior Financial Analyst
05/92                  2   Senior Financial Analyst,
Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal 10/92         5   Senior Financial Analyst,
Municipal Engineer,
Environmental Specialist,
Consultants
Pre-negotiation         I   Senior Financial Analyst
02/93
Supervision
10/93                  2   Municipal Engineer, Senior          HS                HS
Financial Analyst
02/94                   1    Senior Financial Analyst          HS                HS
07/94                   3    Municipal Engineer, Senior         S                HS
Financial Analyst, Consultant
11/94                  3   Municipal Engineer, Senior          U                 S
Financial Analyst, Consultant
04/95                   2    Municipal Engineer, Senior         U                 S
Financial Analyst
11/95                  2   Municipal Engineer, Senior           S                S
Financial Analyst
01/96                   1    Senior Financial Analyst           S                HS
06/97                   2   Private Sector Specialist, Urban    S                 S
Specialist
03/98                   2   Urban Specialist, Senior            S                 S
Financial Specialist
05/99                   3    Team Leader, Economist,            S                 S
Municipal Engineer
ICR
10/99                   1    Urban Specialist
- 23 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project CycleActual/Ltest Estimate '
t0 00 0)f ;8ft:E6y6:;100 :0it80 ~~~us$   0
Identification/Preparation              79.4                      254.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                   36.2                      124.1
Supervision                             92.9                      305.7
ICR                                      8.0                       24.0
Total                                  216.5                      708.5
all direct costs
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
I Physical                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
FZ Financial                             O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development              * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Gender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
* Other (Please specify)          0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
IX Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
Z Lending                                            OHSOS OU OIHU
0 Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
F Overall                                            OHS OS  OU  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                        O HS * S  O U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance              0 HS * S  0 U  0 HU
(J Implementation agency performance                 0 HS * S  0 U  0 HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS  OU  0 HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The ICR is based on the documents in the project file and the relevant sector work. It must be noted that
during the last 3 fiscal years of the project the file does not contain the information that would fully reflect
the evolution of the project.
- 27 -



