Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-A/  $/Z6 /- AL
2-Al3J /7    Al U12
Report No. 11562-(R
STAFF APPRISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MROCCO
FIT MCIPAL FflIANC  PROJT
NAY 21, 1993
Infrastructure Operations Division
Magbreb Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
I This docum      has a resiucted dhltibu   md may be used by recdputs o y in the performanoe of
their oficud duties. Its contents may ot otherwie be dcdosed whot Wold Bsnk aorlzo.



CURRENCY EOU-VALENTS
US$1 - DH 8.50
(as of January 1, 1993)
DH 1 - US$0.12
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABRO2IXS
BM          Banque Al-Maghrib
(Central Bank)
CDG         Caisse de D6p8t et de Gestion
(Administrator of Insurance and Pension Funds)
CL          Collectivit6s Locales
(Local authorities)
FEC         Fonda d'Equipement Communal
(Communal Infrastructure Fund)
GT          General Treasury of the Kingdom
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOI         Ministry of Interior
TDMI        Training Directorate of the Ministry of the Interior
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
VAT         Value-Added Tax



FOR OMFFCIL Use ONLY
KINgDOOF MQRCCQO
FIRST MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CONTNS
LOAN AD PROJECT SnMMA R Y  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . SU Y
I.   INTRODUCTION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
II.  THES ECTOR OVERVIEW  AND ISSUES         ..................             2
A.  Local Sarvices   . . . .  . . .  . *  .  . . .  . . . . . . . . .  2
B.   Sector Tnstitutions and Manageme:it Systsu1s . . . . . . . . . .   2
C.  Municir.L Finance  . . . . .  . .  . ..... .. .  . . . . . .   5
D.  Main t,.;tor Issues . . . . . . . . .   . ..                 . .   7
III. SECTOR REFORMM    PROSPECT8  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..    9
A.  Actions to Improve the Sector  . ..............  .    9
S.   Forecast of Flow of Funds of the Local Sector  . . . . . . . .  11
C.  Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
IV.  THE BORROWER AND PRIMAMY PROJECT EXECUTING AGENCY . . . . . . . . .  13
A.   Institutional Profile  .................                   .    13
B.   Credit and Financial Policieg  ..............                   15
C.  FEC's Finances . . . . . . . . ... .  . . . . . . .  16
V.  THE PROJECT  .  . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . .... .  19
A.   Origin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
B.   Objectives . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .  . . . .  . . .  . . . .    19
C.   Rationale for Bank Involvement  9.. . . .  .  .  .*.. . . .  ..  .  .   20
D.   Project Description  . . . .  . ..   . . . . . .. . . . . ..  20
E.  Project Cost and Financing... ........ . . .....   22
F.   Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
G.  Procurement and Disbursements                                    25
H.  Monitoring                . *               . ..   .*   *.    27
I.  Benefits and Risks . . . . . .  . . . *     . . . . . .          28
VI.  AGRhEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .  . ...  . . . . . .  . . . . .  29
This document has a sticted distibuton nd ay be used by eipents on Int pfomance 
of tir offcia dutes Its ctets may not oQthwie be discloe without Wold Bank autoiaton.



Table 2.1s  Local governments' revenues and expenditures  . . . . . . . .    5
Table 3.1s  Forecast of flow of funds of the local sector . . . . . . . .   12
Table 4.1:   FEC's summary financial statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Table 5.1:  Summary of costs  . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .  .   23
Table 5.2:  Project's summary financing plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
Table 5.3:  Procurement arrangement . .   . . .       . .      . a.. . . . . . .      . .   26
ANNEXS
ANNEX As      Local government finance in Morocco . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
ANNEX B:    Program to develop and introduce a new VAT distribution system  57
ANNEX C:    Plan of action to improve local sector management and
intevgoverrAment finances  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   58
ANNEX Ds      Terms of reference for study on local and intergovernmental
finances  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   59
ANNEX Es      Terms of reference for study to develop the local sector
manu ageentinformation systems  . . . . . ....                               62
aNNEX Fs    Training component   ........... .........                                      68
ANNEX 0:    Procedures for processing and administering loans . . . . . .   78
ANNEX H:    Action plan for the institutional improvement of FEC  . . . .   82
Attachments Computation of FEC's Targets of
Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   83
ANNEX I:    FEC's policy statement  ...................    84
Attachments Evaluation Criteria . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   91
ANNEX Js    Notes to FEC'o financial statements . . . . . . .    . . . . .   103
ANNEX K s   etailn of project costs              ...      . . ......    109
AEX Ls    Disbursement schedule . . . . . ..........                                       110
ANNEX M:      Allocation of proceeds   ..... . .. . .111
ANNEX Ns   Monitoring ystemsystem............                                         .  112
ANNEX O      Documents and data available in the project file  . . . . . .  118
This report is based mainly on the findings of missions which visited Morocco in October-November 1991,
January 1992, May 1992. and October-November 1992 (appraisal). The appraisal team was composed of
Messrs. Julio Linares (task manager), Claude Hovnanian, Charles Sterling, Sherif Arif (ENTEN), and
Frangois Vaillancourt (consultant - Professor of the University of Montreal). Earlier contributions pertain
to Messrs. Alberto Antonini (INV04). Alain Tobelem (LATPS). Mrasa Fernandez-Palacios (P8DCP). Antoine
Sylvain (consultant, official of the Government of Quebec) and Noe Assia Khellaf (consultant). The
following Bank professionals advised the mission: Mr. Jacques Coudol on restructuring the municipal finance
agency; and Mr. Richard Bird (Professor of the University of Toronto--visiting consultant to the Bank) on
intergovernmental finances. Mrs. Nicolette DeWitt advised the mission on legal aspects and prepared the
project legal documents. Messrs. Tim Campbell (LATAD) and Jam  Hicks (TWURD) were peer reviewers.
M4essrs. Amir Al-Khafaji (Division Chief. M111IN) and Harinder Kohli (Director, MNI) approved the report.
Ms. Michelle Detwiler edited the report. Mrs. Jocelyne Simmonds produced the report.



KINGDOM OF SBMORCC
FIRS! MUNICIPAL rINANCZ PRGJECT
OAN AND PROJECT S8MMARY
Borrowers               Kingdom of Morocco and Fonds d'Nquipement Communal (FEC)
AmounI                  RKingdo.a of Morocco:    US$  4 million equivalent
FBCs                    US$100 million equivalent
Tomes                   Repayable in 20 years, including five of grace, at the
Sank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlendig la.  s         FEC will onlend to the beneficiaries US$100 million
equivalent in dirhams with a margin of about 4
percentage points to cover the foreign exchange risk
plus 2 0 - 2 S percentage points to cover tho cocmmercial
and interest risks, and management costs. Maturities
will be up to 1S years with a grace period on principal
of up to two years. The Kingdom will assume exchange
losses on FEC's loan in excess of the exchange margin.
DsecrlRtigns            The project aims at improving the efficiency of local
investments, distribution of the local share of the
value-added tax (VAT) among local governments,
availability and delivery of local services, and
management of the local sector.   It includes the
following:
(a)   Funding for local investments in roads, water and
seworage, solid waste, and productive and recreational
facllities (US$176.5 million - 96.8 percent of total
project cost).
(b) Technical assistance, training, and equlpment to improve
FEC's institutional capabilities, (US$0.8 million -
0.4 percent of total project cost).
(c)  Training for local governmente' staff, including the
construction of a training center, training of trainers,
and related consultant services (US$2.3 million - 1.3
percent of total project cost).
(d)  Technical assistance, training and equipment to improve
int rgovernmental finance, and the central government
management  systems  related  to  the  local  sector
(US$2.7 million - 1.5 percent of total project cost).



- ii -
Benefits:               The project would benefit about two million people
living in urban and rural agglomerations, including a
large number of poor. All financed Investments wiill
have high priority and meet stringent quality criteria.
Subprojects will have an economic rate of return of at
least ten percent.   Further,  project benefits are
expected well beyond those of financed investments on
three additional counts. First, policy reforms and
conditionality are designed to increase the efficiency
of investments--regardless of sources of financing--
through the local sector. Second, actions to Improve
mar.agement systems of local governments and central
authorities dealing with the local sector are designed
to improve services aad the financial performance in the
local entities. Third, the restructuring of FEC (agency
in charge of financing local investments) and the reform
of the distribution of the local share of the VAT among
local governments are designed to enhance the discipline
of local governments and thus increase their savings.
Risks Ind safeguards:   Improving  local  services  and  sector  management
countrywide is an ambitious undertaking which will
require sustained effort for many years. The project
addresses key sector issues, and it involves many
agencies, some institutionally and operationally weak.
Three main risks have been identified.  The first is
that limited project preparation capacity at the local
level compounded by a st.l' untested FEC might result in
a slow pipeline of quality subprojects and thus delay
project execution. The present backlog of projects--a
good number of them potentially eligible--will mitigate
this risk at the beginning of project execution. The
training component and technical assistance to FEC will
reduce this risk in the longer term. The second main
project risk is that FEC's management might fail to
apply its demanding policy framework. Government and
Bank collaboration in designing the new FEC have already
reduced this  risk.   The third  is that political
pressures might undermine the Government's resolve to
carry  through  and  maintain  the  reform  in  the
distribution of the local share of the VAT. Intensive
discussion  of  sector  issues  throughout  project
preparation have already considerably reduced this risk.
The annual reviews of project performance including a
major one in 1995 should further reduce all risks.



- iii -
USS MILLION
LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL
(ESTIMATED COSTS          |
Local projects
Infrastructure                                 109.6      63.4      173.0
Studies and designs                              2.0       0.5        2.5
Institutional development                      0.5 _0. 1.0
112.1      64.4      176.5
Institutional improvement of PEC                    0.0       0.8        0.8
Training for local governments                      1.1        1.2       2.3
Institutional improvement
of Central Government units                       0.9                  2.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST1                  114L1                182.3
lFINANCING PLA
Subborrowers' resources                            35.3       0.0       35.3
FEC                                                42.0       0.0       42.0
Government                                          1.0        0.0       1.0
Bank                                               3S.8      ,6.2      104.0
TOTAL FINANCING                               AuM  L  
ILOAI DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Bank Finecal Year                 A                                2* U  2  A  22
Annual                             8       31      33      23        8       1
C2tulative                         8       39      72      95      103    104
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN                         Min. 10% when applicable
J/ Includes about US$25 million for taxes and duties.



FIRST MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
STAF  APPRAIA  IMPORT
I. IjY.2MDgIL.QJ
1.1        This report appraises Morocco's First Municipal Finance Project,
which involves two interrelated loans: one to the Communal Infrastructure Fund
(FEC), the municipal finance agency; and one to the Kingdom of Morocco. Given
the importance of the Government's obligations under its Loan Agreement to the
FEC component, failure by the Government to carry out its obligation under its
Loan Agreement would give rise to a suspension remedy under the FEC loan. Tne
effectiveness of the FEC loan, moreover, will be conditional upon the
effectiveness of the Kingdom loan. The project's objective is to support loans
to FEC and the Ringdom, mainly for financing municipal inveitments and
institutional improvement components, respectively.
1.2            The performance of the local sector significantly affects the
Moroccan economy. In spite of low investment levels caused by limited funds, the
local sector's share of gross domestic product has been around 5 percent in the
last few years and local sector investments amount to about 25 percent of those
of the Central Government. About 12 percent of total fiscal revenues accrue to
local governments as local taxes or transfers from the Central Government.
Upgrading the local sector, therefore, is a priority policy initiative for which
the Government has requested Bank assistance.
1.3        The proposed project has three major development goals.  The first
is to improve the efficiency of local government investments. To achieve this,
the Government is restructuring FEC. This restructuring entails the adoption of
a clear investment financing policy framework, which would regulate the
investment eligibility, project quality standards, operating norms, and financial
conditions of loans. The second is to improve intergovernmental finances. The
most urgent measure to achieve this will be the introduction of a more rational
system -- based on social and economic criteria -- for distributing the local
share of the value-added tax (VAT) among local governments. This system will
replace discretionary capital transfers and current transfers based on the
estimated current budget deficits of each local government, with single transfers
out of the local share of the VAT distributed among local governments on the
basis of objective criteria. The Moroccan authorities, moreover, would review
and revise local taxes, as needed, as well as develop a long-term strategy to
improve intergovernmental finances. The third major development goal is to
increase the availability and improve the delivery of urban and rural
infrastructure services, as well as upgrade the management of local governments.
1.4        In keeping with project goals, the project would finance urban and
rural infrastructure, and training and technical assistance for the Central
Government departments concerned, local governments, and FEC. Two loans in the
aggregate of US$104 million are proposed.   They would be disbursed for
components--including partial funding of FEC subloans which in turn would
partially finance local investments--with a total cost of some US$182.3 million
in current prices. FEC, in parallel, is expected to finance another US$350
million of investments during the project execution period (1994-1998), for a
total lending program of over US$S500 million. All projects financed by FEC,
including subprojects financed with the Bank loan, would fulfill the same
eligibility criteria and conditionaliti^  outlined in PEC's Policy Statement.



-2-
II. THE SECTOR: OYERVIEW AND ISSUES
A.   Local Serviceg
2.1        The level of coverage for local services in Morocco is low compared
with countries of similar development. About 60 percent of the non-dispersed
population have access to piped water, compared with over 70 percent in many
other developing countries. Only some S5 percent of the population have electric
service, and streets and rural road. are generally deficient. Facilities and
services are worse in medium- and small-size towns (10,000-50,000 inhabitants).
Overall conditions could further deteriorate as the population is growing fastest
in those towns, thus str,'ining their limited organizational and financial
arrangements to carry out investments.
2.2        Insufficient investment largely accounts for Morocco's low level of
local services.   In 1986, the Central Government and the local governments
reviewed potential investments required to satisfy strictly local needs, screened
out the investments that appeared to be non-essential or non-urgent, and prepared
a list of priority investments totalling US$3,700 million equivalent in 1986
prices. This, in addition to investments needed to accommodate population growth
(about 4 percent p.a. for the non-dispersed population and about 2.5 for the
country's current total population of 27 million) and replace decaying
facilities, would call for an annual investment level in the order of US$600
million over a period of ten years. Yet, the historical investment level has
been only about US$300 million p.a. This translates into US$ll per capita, a
meager amount considering that present services are highly deficient. Achieving
a much higher level of investment could strain the limited management
capabilities of most local governments. But over the medium term, the paucity
of funds is the main binding constraint to achieving investment levels more
commensurate with service requirements (para. 2.18).   Potential for quality
investments by local governments is further discussed int para. 5.6 within the
context of the project description.
B.  Sector Institutions aad Manacement Systems
2.3        The Moroccan public administration is divided among the Central
Government, provinces, prefectures (i.e., major metropolitan agglomerations), and
communes. There are 47 provinces and 13 prefectu-re, each with an assembly and
a governor. These authorities are responsible for implementing provincial and
metropolitan investments approved by the Central Government, which allocates
funds to the provinces and prefectures from the fiscal resources earmarked for
local governments.  Governors are appointed by the King and seport to the
Minister of the Interior. Provinces and prefectures, in turn, are divided into
some 1,550 urban and rural communes (about 900 before 1992). Primarily urban
communes, 250 at present, are called "municipalities*. The other 1,300 communes,
groups of villages and areas with dispersed population, are considered rural.
Larger municipalities own quasi-autonomous agencies called "R6gies," which
specialize in the provision or distribution of one or more services, such as
water, power, and local transportation. In the smaller communes, the RMgies are
self-contained operating units within those communes.
2.4        Communes.    The  communes,  which  will  be  the  main  project
beneficiaries, are the base level of local government.   They are mainly
responsible for constructing and maintaining local roads and streets, as well as
for providing sewerage, solid waste disposal, slaughterhouses, and market
services. An elected President and elected Council govern each commune. The



- 3 -
Council ie empowered to formulate the communal budget, select investments, and
set rates on several local taxes and fees (which account for a small fraction of
the resources of most communes).   Two committees of council members, the
investment and the finance committees, develop investment ideas and propose
investwr it to the Council, respectively.  The President, as the commune's chief
executii j officer, manages local services, implements investment projects, and
oversees the R6gies.   Notwithstanding the powers of local authorities, the
Ministries of Finance (MOF) and Interior (MO0) must approve commu"*l budgets.
4X0 also approves the submission of local government projects co lending
agencies.   The General Treasury of the Zingdom (GT) within MOF, moreover,
receives all commune resources for deposit in government central accounts and,
upon review for legal and accounting adequacy, pays suppliers on behalf of the
communes.
2.5        Human Resources.  In the last few years, communeas have significantly
increased their institutional capacity, but still have a long way to go before
constituting a modern local sector.   In 1991, total communal staff reached
103,000, or four staff per 1,000 inhabitants (three in 1990), a low level
compared with about six observed in efficient local sectors of other countries.
Communes, moreover, managed to increase the percentage of professional and
managerial staff from four in 1990 to five in 1991. Most medium-size communes
already have she capacity to program and implement their investment proiects,
with assistance from external architects and other eAperts supervised by
communes' professional staff. Rural communes, especially the smallest ones and
those furthest from urban areas, generally need the support of professionals from
provincial governments to plan for and even carry out investment projects.
Starting in early 1992, MO was hiring the key staff for the communes created
later that year. still, to be able to manage the increased number of communes,
government plans call for increasing communes' staffing ratios from the present
four per 1,000 inhabitants to five in 1993 and six by 1995.   Becau.e9 the
compensation of local officials is now generally adequate, communes should be
able to continue upgrading the quality of their ranks by retaining and hiring
qualified staff for -hich, in the future, communes will rely mainly on a major
training componenx included in the present project (para. 5.4).
2.6        The Communes' financial information systems are adequate enough to
prepare clear budgets and account for their execution, but they need improvement
to permit better financial management by commune officials and better oversight
by the Central Government. The standardized accounting records required by NO0
clearly reflect commune transactions. Each investment has its own account, so
that it would be relatively easy to audit investments financed by FEC. Still,
communes' accounting systems do not show the status of receivables; they only
produce administrative accounts showing sources on an accrual basis and expenses
on a cash basis, failing to produce statements of revenues and expenses, cash
flow, and financial condition. Technical assistance under the project will help
the Moroccan authorities further improve the communes' financial information
systems (para. 5.4).
2.7        The Regies. The R6gies, even those that are separate legal entities,
have little autonomy. 1O0 appoints the R6gies' Director General and main line
managers. Although the R6gies operate similarly to business enterprises, they,
like the communes, are subject to tight central supervision. MOI reviews and
approves the R6gies' budgets, specific investments, and user charges. For lack
of timely approval of adequate tariffs and other fees, the R6gies' financial
performance in generally poor, which is why they frequently neglect to
rehabilitate and maintain their facilities. Sank-assisted water and sewerage



projects currently under preparation, rather than this project, will more
appropriately address the development issues and financlal needs of the major
self-standing Regles with which the Government will start the process of reform.
FEC may even finance the investments of self-standing R6gies with Bank funds, but
stringent borrower eligibility criteria and conditions for loc.;i governments to
guarantee R6gie debt will severely limit such financing.   Overcoming that
constraint ought not come from relaxing FEC's financial standards, but from the
Government's fostering R6gies, finaneial viability.
2.8        Private Sectar's Role.  Private sector participation is increasing
in several local services, most notably in urban transportation and solid waste
collection. Still, some local services that appear amenable to privatization--
such as marketplaces and slaughterhouses--overwhelmingly remain public services
provided by local gove-nments. Local authorities do not prohibit or tax away
private sector partici;ation in those activities, but national laws and other
regulatory practices may affect such participation. A national law requires that
wholesale markets managed by local governments--official exchanges for fruit and
vegetables--must be public.  Anyone can open an establishment to sell to
retailers, but not with the character of an exchange where wholesale prices are
officially determined. Anyone can also open a retail business, but basic food
stuffs are subject to maximum markups imposed by the Ministry of Economy under
the Prime Minister, MOI, or the provincial governors acting as Central Government
agents. Enforcing these price controls is easier in municipal markets, as
violators can lose their moderately priced tenancies. Private enterprises can
open slaughterhouses, as long as they comply with strict sanitary regulations.
In practice, public slaughterhouses predominate, but legal private and
clandestine private slaughterhouses also exist.   The main issue is price
controls. Addressing this issue is well beyond the scope of this project, which
already has ambitious policy objectives.   Still, increasing private sector
participation is a legitimate policy objective, which requires further study.
The means to lay the groundwork for enhancing that participation are discussed
in para. 5.4.
2.9        Role of the Central Government.  At the central level, the main
actors for the local sector are MOI and MOF. MO! oversees local governments as
well as FEC, through its General Directorate of Local Governments.   This
directorate comprises the Directorate of Investments, which reviews and helps
prepare local investments, and the Directorate of Local Finance, which reviews
the budget of local governments. ROl, moreover, has a Training Directorate
(TDMI), which serves not only the Ministry but the local sector as a whole. MOl
also has a Court of Accounts, empowered to audit the accounting documents,
facilities, and project sites of all local governments. While senior officials
and professionals in the above units are highly competent, they lack both an
adequate data base to monitor local government performance and adequate formats
for the information they review to screen whether the proposed local investments
address priorities and conform with appropriate standards. Nor, for its part,
also has highly qualified officials and professionals in charge of the local
sector. Its GT controls expenditures by approving payments with appropriate
legal and accounting support. MOF's Division of Local Governments, dependent on
the Department of the Budget, reviews local budgets and monitors local taxation.
The Division of Banking and Finance, under the Department of the Treasury of MOF,
in addition to MOl, oversees FEC.
2.10       MIg.  Mainly because of the communes' and R4gies' limited autonomy
and lack of access to commercial bank loans (para. 4.1), the Government has had
to rely entirely on FEC to provide loan funds for local government and R6gie



- 5 -
investments. Unti_ December 1991, FEC was a government agency responsible for
appraising communal investment projects and channeling fiscal resources to them
under the management of the Calse de D6p6t et do Gestion (CDG, which is a public
institution responsible for managing pension funds and Some fiscal resources) and
the general supervision of (X0 and NOV. Since this arrangement contributed to
an unsatisfactory lending performance, FEC was restructured In December 1991 with
the pasesage of an organic law (promulgated in August 1992) giving FEC the
autonomy of a publicly-owned specialized financial institution. Issues related
to FEC are discussed in paras. 2.19 and 2.20; FEC's organization and management
are discussed in paras. 4.1 - 4.9.
C.   lunicival Finance
2.11       Ovedgiew.  The following table shows revenues and expenditures of
local governments for 1990-1992. In 1990, for example, the GT not only received
revenues for local governments, but also paid local government expenditures of
DH 6,600 million (US$780 million equivalent), as those govarnments do not manage
their own funds (para. 2.4).  A similar parity between revenues accrued by, and
received on behalf of, local governments during the bud cit period, and actual
expenditures of local governmerbs during such period, are estimated for 1991 and
1992.  Information on assets and liabilities to match those flois is generally
unavailable, as local governments in Morocco, as in most countries, still do not
prepare balance' sheets, a matter that the proposed project will address
(para. 5.4).  FEC's financial statements, however, show that local governments
have an aggregate debt of about DH 2,600 million (US$300 million equivalent), a
modest burden compared with total flows.
Tabl 2.1s LOCAL GOVERIUENTS' REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES
(DH billion)
CONCEPTS             ACTUAL                       BUDGET
1990               1991               1992
Revenues                          l                 -                    %
Local taxes and         2.7      41         3.3     01         3.6      40
other
VAT                      3.4     51         4.2     52         4.4      49
Loans                   0.5       8         0.6       7        0.9      11
Total resources         6.6    100          8.1    100         8.9    100
Expenditures
Operating costs         2.7      42         3.4     42         4.S      50
Debt service            0.3       S         0.4       5        0.5       6
Investments2            3.6     53         4.3      53         3.9      44
Total expenditures       6.6    100         8.1    100         8.9    1i0O
Source: 501's Directorate of Locat Finance, ith some adjustments and reclassiffeation.
21/   Includes investments In education, health and agriculture carried out by the line ministries.



- 6 -
2.12        Local Sect2r Agcountina.  The table above excludes current account
surpluses and unused investment credits at the beginning and at the end of the
period, which combined have remained about equal to some DH 2.700 million. Those
accounts legally permit the GT to pay for local investments early in the budget
period, while waiting for established current surpluses and actual collection of
the VAT to permit local governments to tender and the GT to pay investment
expenditures charging them to the present period's VAT. The current account
surplus of DH 700 million--excess of local taxes plus VAT allocated to non-
investment expenditures, over operating costs and debt service--is largely
planned, and justifies early investment expenditures the following year. The
remaining DH 2,000 million are a float of unused investment credits largely
resulting from requiring prior receipt of VAT resources before tendering
investments. Essentially, MOF makes the planning and execution of investments
lag behind the accrued local share of the VAT, as a means to foster the GT's cash
balances, contain public sector expenditures, and avert local arrears. The non-
transparent, complex accounting practices are the result of MOP policy and
Central Government management of local funds. Since these are the cornerstone
of intergovernmental finance in Morocco and the Government will be improving the
distribution of the local share of the VAT, reforming the present system in the
near future is unlikely and unwarranted. Annex A provides details on local
finance, including this complex matter.
2.13        ReveUi.  Local taxes, a current account revenue item, are about
equally divided into taxes managed by the Central Government and taxes managed
by the local governments. There are 35 taxes in total. The higher yielding ones
are two on real estate rental values and one on the maintenance of a business
license; the other are miscellaneous taxes and fees. A largely completed reform,
started in 1990, substituted some new taxes for old ones, changed some rates,
left the total number of ta%es unchanged, and increased total yield by about 15
percent that year. An evaluation of the results of this reform should be carried
out around 1994. Loans, mostly from FEC, make up capital revenue. The local
share of the VAT is about equally divided into a current component, earmarked to
cover operating costs aad debt service, and a capital component, earmarked to
cover investment expenditures.
2.14        The Local Share of the VAT. According to a law implemented in 1988,
30 percent of the proceeds of the VAT belong to local governments. In 1990,
total VAT accruals for local governments amounted to DH 3,400 million (US$400
million equivalent). Nonetheless, a large share of local government VAT accruals
were unavailable to carry out local expenditures because they were used either
to finance centrally controlled and administered local expenditures or to
increase public sector cash (paras. 2.15 - 2.17).
2.15        The Distribution of the VAT amonc Local Governments.   With MOP
concurrence, MOI distributes the larger part of the local share of VAT proceeds
among local governments. To contain total public spending, MOP recovers part of
the local share of the VAT by financing out of that share certain investments In
education, health, and agriculture made by the line ministries; this part was
about 16 percent of VAT accruals in 1990.   Then, at its discretion, MOI
distributes a part of the remaining VAT resources to pay for local governments'
common expenditures and another part to finance so-called "national integrated
investments" (mainly in water and power), which mostly benefit provinces and
metropolitan areas. In 1990, the remaining VAT resources of DR 1,600 million
(about US$200 million equivalent - 47 percent of the local share of VAT and 16
percent of total VAT) were fully allocated to operating subsidies in accordance
with the competitive demands of the local governments' forecast deficits. The
residual item, following the precedent of 1989, might have been an allocation for



-7-
investmente to be distributed among local governments on the basis of population
and used for investments freely chosen by those governments. But, in 1990, that
residual was nil.
2.16        Exenditures.  Expenditures include the following: operating costs
(42 percent of total), of which about half are for personnels debt service (5
percent); and investments (53 percent). operating costs, particularly for
personnel, are growing rapidly mainly to overcome staff shortages (para. 2.5).
Investments, totalling some DH 3,400 million (US$400 million equivalent in 1990),
mainly comprise installations for the various services managed by local
governments. About two-thirds of that amount were spent on health, education,
and agricul.ure by the line ministries, as well as on local services under NOl
national programs and on specific investments financed by MOI-earmarked VAT
allocations. In 1990, some DH 700 million worth of investments were local, fully
chosen and managed by local governments and paid for by the GT with current VAT
cash on the legal basis of past operating surpluses (para. 2.12).
2.17        Investment Decisions. To a large extent, the scrutiny of investments
depends upon their source of funding. Each communal council freely decides to
undertake local investments financed with current surplus on the basis of
analysis by consultants and staff, review of alternatives by its investment
committee, and recommendation of its financial committee (para. 2.4). Citizens
may, but seldom, attend council meetings. MOl reviews those investments on the
basis of a summary description in the proposed budget and requests additional
information when a proposed investment appears to be unsound. It has stopped
grossly unjustified investments even to communes with ample own funds. For local
Investments financed with specific allocations from the VAT, MOI determines
priority investments among communes' competitive proposals, but for each commune
it generally follows the ranking of priorities of the respective communal
council; communes, under a free format, must submit a technical brief for each
proposal. NOI tends to choose Lnvestments concerning several local governments
on the basis of national and regional benefits. Investments proposed for FEC
financing, as described in Chapter IV, undergo the highest degree of
scrutiny.
D.   Main Sector Issues
2.18        The previous section introduces a number of substantive issues.  A
major one is the paucity of funds, which funding for local investments under the
project will address. Another issue is the limited capabilitLes of the local
sector, a substantLal constraLnt to sector development, which project technical
assistance and training components will seek to overcome. Yet, another iesue,
at least in the short run, is the inconsistency of the VAT allocation (to local
governments) with macroeconomic balance. To maintain Lts target of international
reserves or other competing policy objectives, the Central Government may need
to recover part of the VAT for its expenditures and lag payments under the local
share of the VAT behind legal accruals. In the short run, the Government will
have to strike a balance between fostering those objectives at the expense of the
local sector and providing this sector with reasonable means to finance
investments. This is further discussed in the context of the forecast of local
sector flow of funds within the framework of the present project design. The
issues of whether local governments should be more accountable to their
constituencies than to the Central Government and manage their own resources--
matters of political and macroeconomic choice--cannot be resolved within the time
frame of the present project. Other shorter-term issues should be resolved or
studied first. These issues are discussed below.



2.19        The Interaction of transfers and Credit to Local Governments.  The
most critical concern in local finance is that the manner in which the local
share of the VAT is distributed among communes along with FEC's credit practices
encourage those communes to finance low-priority investments with debt. As noted
above, MOI, with the intention of encouraging savings, allocates almost half of
the local share of the VAT among communes on the basis of forecasted current
budget deficits that include debt repayment.   Because MOI makes sure that
communes have earmarked budget resources to repay FEC's loans, FEC has
traditionally granted loans to the communes regardless of their capacity to
service debt out of their own funds. These conditions have resulted in many
communes' managing to negotiate the acceptance by the Government of their
projected budget deficits, obtaining loans to finance low-priority investments,
and ensuring future subsidies out of the local share of the vW.e to service their
excessive debt.   Tightening of FEC's credit standards would reduce but not
eliminate this problem, as the mechanics of justifying future subsidies with debt
would persist until the borderline debt service ratio established by FEC
precludes contracting of further debt (para. 4.12).  Thus, both the system to
distribute the local share of the VAT and FEC's credit policies must pursue the
efficiency of investments and the soundness of debt service coverage ratios among
communes.
2.20        Still, FEC had yet to put in place a sound system for channeling its
government-guaranteed resources to the communes. As further explained in Chapter
IV, FEC's lending policies and practices have been lax. FEC's institutional
arrangement has largely accounted for this. When CDG controlled FEC, it was
neither responsible for, nor had an interest in the best use and protection of
FEC funds.  FEC's credit committee, in which MOF, as guarantor of FEC, was
represented, made credit recommendations but not decisions. Thus, under this
institutional setup, there were virtually no links between authority to take
action, real responsibility for, and interest in the results of those actions.
FEC, moreover, still lacked mandatory lending policies. FEC's restructuring will
overcome these shortcomings (Chapter IV).
2.21        Lona-Term Outlook.   over the longer term, Morocco's system of
intergovernmental finance poses three questions that cannot yet be answered. The
first is how to allocate powers and responsibilities among the   Central
Government, the local governments, and other agencies.   For example, local
government responsibility for providing some health and education services (not
only funding investments of government departments) requires further study. The
Government is already considering assigning to the communes of the beneficiary
areas responsibility for executing health and education facilities financed with
the VAT resources recovered to balance the national budget. A firm assignment
of responsibilities could only come after close observation of how local
governments and the Central Government jointly manage some projects and a
critical assessment of the experience of other countries (e.g., Tunisia, Canada,
Colombia). Furthermore, providing certain services (e.g., slaughterhouses, water
and power distribution) through the private sector might be the best solution.
The second question, partly derived from the first, is what would be the
appropriate transfer level and mechanisms.  For example, although tradition
favors the VAT system, a reflection on the alternatives of an allocation out of
total current revenues or program-specific transfers may be useful. The third
question, as discussed above (para. 2.13) is how to finetune, or restructure,
the system of local taxes. These, and other related questions, will be the
subject of studies financed under the project (para. 5.4).



- 9 -
SSS. *ECTOR PEFORM AND PROSPECTS
A.   Actions to !mrove the Sector
3.1         The Moroccan authorities are undertaking major reforms to local
finances and other actions to improve sector performance.   The following
paragraphs summarize these reforms.
3.2         Distribution of the L,cal SharQ of the VAT. The Immediate and most
important reform to local finances is that of the system to distribute the local
share of the VAT among local governments, reform which the Government will
introduce in Fiscal Year 1995. Under the new system, at least 50 percent of the
VAT revenues earmarked for local governments will be distributed among them on
the basis of objective criteria. These criteria will include: (a) the size of
population, as a proxy for needs; (b) fiscal endowment (measured by assessments
of local taxes managed by the Central Government), as an equity corrector to the
population criteria; and (c) fiscal effort (measured by collection of taxes
managed by local governments), as an incentive to self-reliance of local
governments. Local governments will use VAT resources allocated on the basis of
those criteria either to cover operating costs and service debt, or to carry out
investments. Annex A describes the details of the envisaged system which the
Moroccan authorities will reassess with the Bank and adjust as needed in October
1994, on the basis of information on local taxes of the full 1993--first year for
which the number of local governments almost doubled--and the fL.,at semester of
1994. It is anticipated that the Government will allocate up to 30 percent of
the local share of the VAT to expenditures in health and education managed by the
related line ministries, common expenditures of local governments, and funding
to gradually phase out operating subsidies and complete previously authorized
investments with financing from earmarked VAT funds. It is also anticipated that
MO! will distribute about 20 percent of the local share of the VAT among local
governments on a discretionary basis. Annex B describes the minimum Government
commitment-what now can be reliably expected--concerning the new system to
distribute the local share of the VAT among local governments.
3.3         Although under the new system earmarking of VAT funds for current and
investment xpenditures is not expected to apply, local budgets will continue to
be subjected to the approval of NOI, which will enforce repayment of debt first.
Under the new system, MO! will coane allocating operating subsidies on the basis
of forecast deficits including debt service. FEC, moreover, will have maximum
debt service ratios as eligibility criteria for local governments' borrowers.
Thus, under the new system there will be little or no incentive to incur
excessive debt to finance lower priority investments. The objective criteria to
distribute the VAT should foster the efficiency of investments and the
responsibility of elected officials to their constituencies.
3.4         Durin  neoot.ations, the Government agreed to introduce an acceptable
system for distributlng the local share of the VAT on the basis of the criteria
described  above.    To  introduce  the  above  system  by  January  1,  1995,
understandings were reached during negotiations that the Government would carry
out the following actions: (a) by October 31, 1993, prepare and issue a circular
to the local governments outlining the objectlves and main principles of the new
system; (b) during 1994, develop the details of that system; and (c) by October
31, 1994, prepare and issue instructions to the local governments, describing the
details of the new system. Also, the Government would expect to distribute about
15 percent of the local share of the VAT on the basis of population in 1994, as
it started doing in 1993. Furthermore, by October 31 of each year after 1994,



- 10 -
the Government will review with the Bank its experience with the new system and
make adjustments the following year, as agreed, during such reviews.
3.5         Restructurina FEC.   The Moroccan authorities have already begun
restructuring FEC.  The first step was the promulgation of FEC's new organic law
and the passage of a decree implementing the law (paras. 2.10 and 4.3). The
secondi step was the organization of the Board, the establishment of a credit
committee, and the appointment of an acting General Director with full powers by
the Board and the Government. The Ring is expected to make a final appointment
of the Director General in late 1993, but such a decision is not essential for
FEC to conduct its business now. The credit committee is composed entirely of
government representatives and a management committee--to be created at Board
discretion--would include a minimal representation of local governments. The
third step was the approval of a policy statement, with clear financial and
credit policies, by FEC's Board. The statement, as agreed between the Moroccan
authorities and the Bank, is summarized in Chapter IV and fully presented in
Annex I.  As a fourth step, the Directors for the main line units--project
evaluation, supervision, finance and administration-should be in place bv the
time the Bank declares the FEC loan effective  (para. 4.9 and Annex N).
Furthermore, as discussed in Chapter IV, FEC, throughout project execution, will
improve its organization, staffing, management systems, facilities, equipment,
and finances.
3.6         Other Actions to Imorove the Local Sector.  To support the above
reforms and further upgrade intergovernmental finances and local sector
management, the Government, during 1994-1996, will discuss with the Bank the
results of certain studies (Chapter V), and during 1996-1997, will undertake the
actions agreed upon during such discussions, as follows (schedule of actions in
Annex C)t (a) develop a program to improve local and intergovernmental finances
including assessments of the results of the reform of local taxes and prospects
for privatizing local services; (b) introduction of an improved accounting system
for the local sector; (c) implementation of measures to improve the formulation
and implementation of local budgets; (d) adoption of improved formats for review
of local investments by the Central Government; and (e) establishment of a data
base to produce and disseminate  information on  local governments.    The
Government, moreover, will carry out a training program for local officials and
officials of the Central Government who deal with local governments (Chapter V).
The Government gave assurances durina nenotiations that it would implement a plan
of institutional improvement of the local sector including those actions
(Annex C).  Paragraph 5.4 further discusses technical assistance and training.
Terms of reference for the study on local and intergovernmental finances, as well
as local sector management information systems, are presented in Annexes D and
Z, respectively. The local sector training program is presented in Annex F.
3.7         Improvina the Efficiencv of Investments.  As already mentioned and
further discussed below (paras. 1.3 and 5.2), the project aims to improve the
efficiency of investments by local governments. Thus, it is legitimate to ask
whether the proposed measures to improve sector performance are adequate enough
to achieve that objective, or additional measures are called for. The present
project will pursue the efficiency of investments mainly through the following:
(a) introduction of a system to distribute the local share of the VAT on the
basis of more objective criteria, which will reduce the risk that some local
governments wlll negotiate the financing of low-priority investments, and will
permit all local governments to better plan their investments with more
predictable resources; (b) establlshment of eligibility criteria of projects as
well as of local governments, which will include maximum debt service coverage
ratios to discourage some local governments from undertaking lower prinrity



- 11 -
investments financed by debt; (c) requirement that FEC borrowers gradually
contribute at least 20 percent (zero at present) out of own funds to the
financing of investment projects, which should foster prudent investment and
borrowing decisional (d) implementation of a training program, which will enable
managerial and technical staff of local governments to make better decisions or
recommendations; and (e) introduction of a standardized system of information for
local governments to clear investments with the Central Government on the basis
of their viability. On balance, these arrangements, comprising a system of
checks and incentives, would go a long way toward improving the efficiency of
investments. one alternative to tighten further investment selection would be
for MOl to clear local investments on the basis not only of viability but also
according to a schedule of priorities and set of rules. But this would undermine
the already limited autonomy of local governments and any possible progress in
making local authorities accountable to their constituencies. Likewise VWC, as
a financial agency, ought not engage in ranking priorities for the local
governments, but essentially restrict itself to applying its lending eligibility
criteria. Thus, the above arrangements are considered adequate to enhance the
efficiency of investments by local governments.
B.  Forecast of Flow of Funds of the Local Sector
3.8         The table below presents a preliminary forecast flow of funds of the
local sector for 1993-1995. Local taxes have been estimated on the basis of past
trends. Local VAT resources reflect Treasury projections of total VAT revenues.
it is assumed that the Central Government, to balance its budget, will recover
DH 1.0 billion of the local share of the VAT (by funding expenditures of the line
ministries in health and education out of this share), the best estimate of
Moroccan officials at present. It is also assumed that reforms affecting VAT
distribution are in place as scheduled (para. 3.2). FEC loans (wbose outstanding
balance would increase from US$350 million in 1992 to USS550 million by 1997) are
similar to projections in Chapter IV, projections which are compatible with FEC's
potential resources. No substantial changes in local taxes and intergovernmental
finances--other than the distribution of the local share of the VAT--are assumed
in this projected flow of funds, as possible changes for 1995 deriving from
studies under the project cannot be anticipated now. Local investments would
increase to DH 5 billion in 199S. This is predicated on the Government's not
needing to recover more than DR 1 billion to balance its budget, at times an
overriding priority. As a framework for the project, that projection will be
reviewed and updated after each year of project execution.



- 12 -
Table 3.1s FORECAST 0 FLOW OF FUNDS OF THE LOCAL SECTOR
(DR blllon)
FORECAST
OONCEPTS                    1993         1994        1995
Resources
Local taxes and others*                        4.3         4.8          S.3
VAT*                                           4.9         5.3          5.9
Loans                                          0.7         0.9          0.9
Total resources - Total expendltures           9.9        11.0         12.1
Hxganditunes
Current expenditures                           4.8         5.1          5.3
Debt service                                   0.7         0.7          0.8
Investments                                    3.4         4.2          5.0
VAT recovery by the Central Government         1.0         1.0          1.0
* Estimated to grow in tandem with inflation and GDP growth.
Source: Bank estimates based on unoff ic1at preliminary budgets prepared by the
Directorate of local finance in NOF.
C.   Bank Role and Sector LeAna Stratecrv
3.9         Past Bank involvement in the sector includes the Pilot Project for
the Communal Infrastructure Fund (Loan 2272-NOR), completed ln 1989, and a sector
report on local finance, completed in 1990. The project completion report for
the Pilot Project (No. 10075) made two main recommendations. The first one was
that FEC monitor the execution of projects lt financed more closely.  This
recommendation, as discussed ln Chapter IV, has been incorporated into the
present project design. The second recommendation, also incorporated into the
project design, was that FEC become a more autonomous financlal agent of the
Government and be supervlsed ln much the same way as a financlal instltution.
The Bank sector report (No. 8782-MOR) helped shape Bank vLews or. the dietribution
of the local share of the VAT among local governments as well as other local and
intergovernmental finance Lisues. These views pervade project condltionality.
3.10        In the past, the Bank had concentrated on helping Norocco stabilize
its economy, while deferring action in the local sector. Yet, a local sector
with its present problems might jeopardize macroeconomic stability. A Bank
report on lssues and prospects ln the publlc sector (No. 10157-MOR) shows that
publlc Lnvestment has been Lncreasingly decentrallzed from the Central Government
to the local governments and public enterprises in the course of Xorocco's
stabilizatLon, which began in 1983. Publlc savings, however, have not risen
commensurately outeide the C :ntral Government.  For the local governmnts in
particular, that report concludes that the exlsting VAT allocatlon system has
been an important element preventing better savings performance by the local
governments.  Therefore, Bank strategy for Morocco places hlgh priority on
upgradlng the local sector as a means of improving the consistency of the local
sector wlth sound tax policies and macroeconomic balance as well as the



- 13 -
efficiency of local investments. The proposed project, as explained mal.n.y in
Chapter V, has been designed with these objectives in mind.
IV.   THE BORROWER AND PRIMARY PROJCT EXh'CUTING AGENCY
A.   Institutional Profile
4.1         As explained in Chapter V, carrying out the project will require the
involvement of many agencies: local governments, NOI and MOF units, and FEC.
Although the institutional profile and capabilities of these entities have been
discussed earlier (Chapter III), FEC, as the main borrower and primary project
executing agency, requires a detailed evaluation. For the foreseeable future,
moreover, the communes will rely on FEC as their main financier. FEC's mission
will remain essential until industries and banks in Morocco operate in a fully
competitive environment, and until local governments assess and collect most of
their taxes, and manage their cash (which could serve as security and
compensatory balances for loans). This will go well beyond the time frame of
this project. Thus, the Government has taken a number of important steps to
transform FEC into an autonomous and creditworthy financial institution cepable
of fostering the efficiency of local investments and financial discipline of
local governments. The following paragraphs, with that perspective, assess FEC's
status and prospects.
4.2         Institutional Arranaements. With Bank assistance under the proposed
project, FEC is undergoing a full restructuring, including major changes in
institutional arrangements, as well as in organization, staffing, credit
policies, and financial structure. Although FEC's ful' restructuring will take
about two years, the new institutional arrangements are completed and most
organizational, staffing and accounting arrangements will be completed between
late 1993 and early 1994 (para. 4.4).
4.3         Under FEC's new law, FEC is both a Public Establishment subject to
the control of MOF and an entity with the status of a financial institution
subject to the supervision of the Central Bank (Bank Al-Maghrib - BN). A Board
of 18 members, under the oversight of MOI and MOF, governs FEC. The members of
the Board include: one representative of the Prime Minister, who chairs the
Board; one representative each of the ministries of the Interior, Finance,
Education, Public Health, Public Works, Energy and Mines, and Tourism; one
representative of BMs one representative of CDG; and eight representatives of the
local governments, appointed by MOl.  The Board is empowered to approve FEC's
budget, borrowing operations, personnel policies, lending and financial policies,
and the lending program. The annual lending program is also subject to MO? and
MOI approval. The Board may delegate any of its powers to a management committee
organised at the Board's discretion. This committee would include a minimum
representation of local governments, if any. Furthermore, the law establishes
a credit committee composed only of government officials (representatives of MOI,
MOF, BM, CDG, and FEC's Director General). This committee approves or rejects
loans without recourse. The Director General, appointed by the King, is FEC's
chief executive officer (para. 3.5).  These arrangements are balanced to permit
local representatives to influence FEC activities, while precluding them from
making banking decisions.
4.4        9ganizatLga.  FEC's organization--as not&F by consultants under
French Government and USAID grants--requires some changes. Currently, it still
comprises four divisions, subdivided into 11 units or services: the appraisal



- 14 -
division, including sites and services, water supply, sewerage, and urban
transport unitst the project execution division, including supervision and loan
administration units; the financial division, including financial management and
accounting units; and the research division, which supports the technical or
credit committee, including planning and study units.  In the absence of an
administration division, this organization falls short of adequately supporting
a self-sufficient agency charged with fostering the development of the local
sector. FEC now has to administer its human and physical resources, and control
its own operations, as CDG no longer sustains these functions. It also has to
carry out various functions required by autonomous lending Institutions. FEC's
organization is being modified and is expected to be composed of the following:
(a)   An office of the Director General.
(b)   Five line divisions or departments,  including:  (i)  projects,
comprising the present units of the appraisal division, plus a new
project development unit charged with building a pipeline of
projects; (li) the three project execution, financial, and research
divisions, essentially as at present; and (iiI) administration.
(c)   Two small regional offices (each including a few engineers) for the
follow-up of project preparation and supervision, directly under the
Director General, but reporting to both projects and project
execution.
(d)   Offices of the Secretary, Legal Counsel, and Public Relations under
the Director General.
(e)   A emall Financial and Operational Internal Audit Office staffed
mainly with accounting/financial staff and at least one engineer.
4.5         Staffina. FEC's present staff of 44, including 32 professionals, is
generally qualified,  but  insufficient to appraise and supervise projects
adequately. The main shortage is in competent engineers and financial analysts.
rEC also lacks professionals competent to assess environmental issues. FEC is
expected to fill key positions in those areas with highly qualified professionals
and increase its total staff to about 55 by the beginning of 1994, and to no
fewer than 65 by the beginning of 1995.  These staffing levels should be
sufficient for the scope of FEC operations during project execution, as gauged
by annual disbursements of US$90 - 140 million. As an autonomous entity, FEC
should be able to raise salaries moderately from the CDG's present somewhat low
scale, and thus hire and retain qualified staff at all levels.
4.6         Although  FEC's  management  information  systems  account  for
transactions and provide basic information to monitor operatiLns, they need
improvement.   For example, FEC's chart of accounts and format of financial
statements are adequate, but the accounting system fails to provide a breakdown
of individual loans for each borrower. This is done through a separate loan
operations system, which requires frequent and sometimes laborious reconciliation
with the accounting system file.   Insufficient and outdated micro-computer
software and hardware largely account for this and other shortcomings in all
management systems. At present, FEC has fewer than one micro-computer for every
four staff; the micro-computers as well as spreadsheet and word processing
software that FEC uses for most applications have been off the market for almost
five years. FEC, moreover, lacks a centralized system to permit its staff to
share data expeditiously. USAID consultants have formulated a plan to overcome



- 15 -
those constraints. It calls for increasing the micro-computer/staff ratio to
about 0.5 mainly with state-of-the-art equipment coupled with similarly advanced
general and application-specific software. USAID will finance those acquisitions
as well as the continued assistance of consultants through complete
implementation of the plan in early 1994.
4.7         FEC's Procedures. FEC-also needs to improve its operating practices.
Staff of the project evaluation division, on the basis of an adequate methodology
introduced under the Bank-assisted Pilot Project (Annex 0), issue well structured
evaluation reports. Yet, partly because of the heavy workload and partly because
of budget constraints, they generally fail to visit the borrower and the project
site. For the same season, physical inspections through project execution are
virtually nonexistent. The additional staff as well as improvements to systems
will help tighten evaluation and supervision procedures.
4.8         As mentioned in Chapter V, FtC's credit practices have historically
been lax. The main problem liez not in analysing projects as such, but in
approving, disproportionately, projects requiring a loan debt service well in
excess of communes' and R6gies' own resources to service their debt. FEC's
practice of consistently financing 100 percent of project costs has further
undermined the financial discipline of its borrowers. The reform of the system
to distribute the local share of the VAT and the institutional restructuring of
FEC will go a long way towards correcting those problems. FEC now has introduced
an articulate system of borrower eligibility criteria. FEC also has started
charging loan losses in accordance with time in arrears, in a manner consistent
with policies that SB is introducing in the financial sector under the Bank-
assisted financial sector development loan. These conditions, relevant both to
the financial discipline of the local sector and FtC's own financial performance,
are included in FEC's Policy Statement (para. 4.10).
4.9         To enhance FEC's institutional capabilities, during neacotlations FEC
agreed that it will: (a) implement an acceptable organizational plan with five
divisions responsible for project appraisal, project supervision, finances,
administration and research (para. 4.4); (b) carry out an acceptable action plan
to become adequately staffed; (c) carry out a training program agreed upon with
the Bank; and (d) implement an adequate accounting system (including subaccounts
for each loan to each borrower). Furthermore, as a condition of effectiveness
of the FEC loan, FEC should have appointed its four main line managers
(department directors for project evaluation, project supervision, finance and
administration) and two environmental specialists. Annex H contains an action
plan for FEC's institutional development.
B.   Credit and Financial Policies
4.10        Of special importance in establishing FEC's managerial independence,
FEC's Board has approved a precise Policy Statement including particularly credit
and financial policies, which, with Bank staff assistance, government authorities
already developed during project preparation (Annex I).   Credit policies,
particularly eligibility criteria for borrowers and projects, and lending
conditions will be applicable to all FEC operations, including those refinanced
under the Bank-assisted project. purina n2gotiations, assurances were obtained
that FEC will carry out its operations in accordance with the Statement of
Policy. The following paragraphs highlight main policies in that statement.
4.11        FEC Policy Statement has the following objectivess (a) induce local
governments and R6gies to undertake priority investments; (b) improve the



- 16 -
financial performance of local governments and R4gies; (c) optimize the economic
use of scarce resources and help communes balance their budget and R6gies
maintain financial viability; and (d) maintain FEC's viability through sound
policies  and protection of the value of its equity.   To fulfill those
developmental objectives, FEC's main activity will be to fund financially and
economically viable investments by provinces, metropolitan agglomerations, urban
and rural communes, and R6gies. FEC will allocate its resources in the order in
which projects are approved and funds become available; i.e., the allocation of
funds will be entirely demand-driven.
4.12        The statement comprises the following policiess
(a)  fterational cuidelines.  Substantive requirements for the appraioal
and supervision of projects includs, amonj otherss (i) visit the
project area at least once during project preparation or appraisal;
and (ii) visit the project area at least once during the project
period--three times for major projects--to supervise execution of
works and installation of equipment.
(b)   Eliaibilitv criteria.  Criteria applied to borrowers and projects
requires compliance with certain financial indicators including the
followings (i) borrowing local governments should maintain a ratio
of debt service/ordinary resources of no more than 0.40; (ii) in
general, by 1998, borrowers should finance about 20 percent of
investment costs with their own resources.
(c)   Financial policies.   Financial targets,  revenue policies,  and
accounting rules, including: (i) gradual achievement of a minimum
return of 1.2 percent on the average value of total assets; (ii) a
minimum intermediation margin of 2 percentage points in variable-
rate loans and 2.5 in fixed-rate loans; and (iii) a provision equal
to 30 percent of the total balance of loans which have been in
arrears for one annual installment (see Annex I, Attachment 2 for
provisioning of loans with arrears above one year).
Given the responsibility placed by the Government, at its request, on the Bank
to support FEC's initial development, the Bank will review the consistency of
implementation of the Policy Statement (applicable to all of FEC's loans,
regardless of sources of financing).   This will be done mainly during Bank
supervision missions through a review of a random sample of FEC's appraisal
reports and project files of loans financed by FEC without Bank refinancing.
This understanding has been confirmed durinc neactiations (Annex N).
C.   FEC's Finances
4.13        Financial Performance.  While FEC's finances were, as seen in the
table below and Annex J, fragile, they have begun to improve. In 1990, for
example, FEC's debt-to-equity ratio before a reasonable allowance for loan losses
was about 20 to 1. Yet, an external audit carried out on the basis of prudential
accounting policies has determined that FEC should charge to equity DH 76 million
(US$9 million equivalent) for Bogies' arrears and thus increase its debt-to-
equity ratio to about 70 by the end of that year.   Mainly because of an
historically slim financial margin of 0.0-0.5 percent, FEC has had virtually no
profits before loan losses and thus steadily eroded its modest equity in real
terms.  The 1,5 percent minimum margin adopted for new loans this year and the
2.0-2.5 percent minimum margins to be adopted under the project (para. 4.16) will



- 17 -
gradually increase the return on assets and start supporting the real value of
FEC's equity.
4.14        FEC has also had to struggle with a compromised short-term liquidity.
In 1991, it approved loans beyond assured sources of financing, giving rise to
DU 1,500 million (US$180 million equivalent) in undisbursed loan balances, about
double the hiscorical amount. FEC is however expected to finance this backlog
by the end of 1993, mainly using the recovery on its outstanding loan balances.
4.15        The Government and FEC have taken several important actions to
improve FEC's debt-to-equity ratio, which, together wita undertakings given under
this project, confirm that FEC can be construed as a financially viable and
autonomous municipal financier. The Government, by the end of May 1993, will
contribute DH 75 million to FECse equity. The Ministry of the Interior--which
through the approval of municipal budgets and transfers has leverage over
municipal councils--has required these councils to assume the total balance of
their Rsgios  debts in arrears with FEC. Implementing such an assumption is a
condition of effectiveness of the FEC loan. With these actions, FEC will attain
a debt-to-equity ratio of not more than 1S to 1 in 1993, ratio which is similar
to that of established financial institutions in Morocco and acceptable in
accordance with international standards.
4.16        Financial Pros2ects. On the basis of the financial policies agreed
during negotiations, a tentative, summary projection of FEC's financial
statements for a six-year project execution period (including the end of 1993
with no disbursements and the beginning of 1999 with minimal disbursements) is
also shown In table 4.1 (details in Annex J). After 1994, FEC's loans are
expected to grow in tandem with inflation (4-6 percent p.a.) and GDP growth
(assumed 4 percent p.a.). Issue of government-guaranteed obligations, albeit
limited because of both budgetary constraints and the financial sector
liberalization envisaged by the Government, would still permit that growth of
loans. With total external rerources including the proposed Bank loan, FEC
should be able to lend an annual average of about US$115 million to local
governments and agencies, almost double the historical level. With interest
rates on new operations reflecting market conditions, FEC's return on assets
would gradually grow to about 2 percent (consistent with a financial, gross
margin of at least 2 percent on new varLable-rate loans and 2. 5 percent on fixed-
rate loans) by the end of this decade. Since costs are about 0.6 percent of
assets, that would leave over one percent above management costs available to
support the value of FEC's equity. This, plus additional Government equity
contributions of DH 60 million (US$7 million equivalent), would lower FEC*s debt-
to-equity ratio to about 12 to 1 by 1997. The Government will assume the foreign
exchange risk on the Bank loan to FEC, with FEC covering the cost of such risk
within the framework agreed upon under the Bank-assisted financial sector
adjustment operation. Similar to practices by financial institutions borrowing
from abroad, FEC should charge to operations the so-called reference cost (i.e.,
average rate paid for six-month and one-year deposits in commercial banks plus
0.75 percent), the normal excess of which over the Bank rate should cover most
realized conversion losses, any remainder not consumed by losses would accrue to
the Government which would assume losses beyond that excess. FEC will cover its
interest rate risk by lending at appropriate variable and fixed rates tied to its
cost of funds (para. 5.13).



- 18 -
Tab-le 4. s    PEC'S SUNMARY FINANCIAL STATNENIT'S
(DH million caurront)"
1990   1991    lm      1993    1994    1995        1996    199       1998
INCOME
Interest ernea t              208    250    308    379         453      536      622      713      810
Interest expense              190    234    290    354         392      453      517      581      646
Other expense'                 1?      13      86    (79)       z7       31       40       45       51
met income                      1       3     (68)   101        20       31       39       S2       68
FUNDS
Sources:
operations                     II      10      11       8       10       18       26       38       53
Recovery of loansr            202    235      260    319       360      417      475      537      603
Government guaranteed bonds' 394    592    634    650          500      475      525      500      600
Bank project loan               0       0       0       0      193      289      288      104       39
Other loans                    76       0       8      78       89       40       50      250      350
Government contribution         0       0       0      75        0        0        0       60        0
Total sources                 682    837    913   1,130    1,152    1,239    1,363    1,489    1,645
uses:
Loans disbursec               503    631    814    650         850      923    1,014    1,114    1,222
Loan repayment                101     126    172    460        296      318      337      359      432
Others                          5       1      12      13        1        1        1        1        1
Change In funds                  74      79    (85)       7        4       (3)      11       15      (10)
BALAICE
Assets                      2,113   2,603   2,999  3,411    3,938   4,481    5,072    5,709   6,365
Equity                        111     114      39    215       236      267      305      418      486
RATIOS
Income from loans (X)          12.0   12.1   12.2   12.8        13.4    13.8    14.1    14.4    14.6
Interest expense on            11.3   10.4   10.6   11.5    11.4         11.5    11.5    11.5    11.6
liabilities (X)
Debt to Equity ratio (M)       16.4   20.4   72.4    14.1    15.0    15.0    14.9    12.0    11.5
A/      Inflation rates in the 42 - 6X range; exchange rates between DO  8.5 and D0 10.00 per USS1.
kY      Average lending rate--atbeit varfable--estimsted at about 14.5.
g/      Average cost of resources--albeft variable--estimated at about 122.
9y      Includes loan losses of DH 76 million In 1992 and recovery of loan losses of DO  93 million in 1993.
I/      Average repayment period of 9 years.
fX      Average amortization period of 10 years.
a/      Since 1994, growing in tandem with inflatfon, plus the ,:rowth rate of GDP, which Is asusued to be
4 percent per year.



- 19 -
4.17        To foster FECWs financial performance, assurances were obtained
during necotiations that FEC will maintain: (a) a ratio of administrative
expenses (inoluding depreciation) to assets of not more than 0.75 percent; and
(b) a rate of return on total assets of not less than 0.5 percent in 1994, 0.8
percent in 1995, 1.0 percent in 1996, and 1.2 percent in 1997 and thereafter.
To start FEC off oan a reasonable financial footing as a Bank borrower, the
Government has contributed DH 75 million (US$9.0 million) and, as a condition of
:.-fectLUUMese, is causing local governments, to assume their RMgies' debts in
arrears, bringing FEC's debt-to-equity ratio down to 15 to 1 in 1993
(para. 4.15). Furthermore, assurances were obtained during neotigations, from
FEC, that it will maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15 to 1 auring
1993-1996 and no more than 12 to 1 in 1997 and thereafter. The Government has
also generally acred to take all measures as may be required on its part to
enable FEC to comply with its obligations under this loan; understandings were
reached that this would include taking, by July 1, 1997, measures to enable FEC
to meet its 1997 debt-to-equity ratio requirements (including, if needed, an
additional increase in FEC's equity by up to DH 60 million).  Under these
conditions, FEC should be able to operate as an independent financial institution
with significant managerial and financial independence, an institution for which,
therefore, a full guarantee of performance from the Government is not required.
It should serve as a viable financier of local governments and agencies until
these entities and the banking system can successfully enter the financial
marketplace without the need for directed credit.  Annex R explains how to
compute the above covenanted indicators of FEC's performance.
'J. THE PROJECT
A.  Oriain
5.1         As far back as the processing of the Pilot Project in the early
1980s, the Government and the Bank have envisaged a major follow-on operation to
finance municipal infrastructure and underpin a comprehensive development
strategy for the local sector. Nainly through sector work and supervision of the
Pilot Project, the Government and the Bank identified major sector issues and
potential actions to resolve them. In May 1991, following completion of the
Pilot Project and Government's request for the new operation, a Bank mission
agreed in principle with the Government on the main lines of a sector development
strategy and identified the project. During subsequent preparation missions,
appraisal and negotiations, the Government and the Bank further developed ane.
confirmed such a strategy (para. 3.1).  The project, as described below, is
designed in accordance with that strategy.
I                                B.   Obiectives
5.2         The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a)   enhance the quality of communal infrastructure projects mainly by,
first, restructuring FEC, including the introduction of consistent
economic, financial, and technical criteria for project selection,
and, second, upgrading the institutional capacity of local
governments;
(b)   improve the procedures and criteria for allocating the local share
of the VAT amon7 local governments and lay the basis for further
improving local and intergovernmental finance;



- 20 -
(c)   expand and rehabilitate urban and rural communal infrastructure and
relted services throughout the country}
(d)   improve the financial discipline of local governments so that in the
long run they may be able to borrow from commercial banks; and
(e) improve management systems in the local sector.
C.  Rationale for Bank Involvement
5.3         Rationale for Bank Involvement.   The project supports the main
pillars of the Bank's country assistance strategy for Morocco, as discussed in
the Board in February 1993.  First, the project is designed to enhance the
efficiency of the public sector management. This is expected to be achieved
through the reform of the system to distribute the local share of the VAT among
local governments, and through the restructuring of FEC. Second, improved local
sector performance will necessarily help consolidate and deepen macroeconomic
adjustment by extending the reform beyond the Central Government level. Third,
the project will help alleviate poverty and improve social i$dicators, as it will
improve the coverage and quality of essential services for the poor. Fourth, the
project, mainly by increasing local transport infrastructure and the reliability
of water and power services in many municipalities, will help the private sector
achieve its potential as an engine of growth. Finally, the project specifically
aims to improve water resource and environmental management, as project
eligibility criteria include conditionalities to foster cost recovery -- notably
to reduce the wastage of water -- control any adverse environmental impact, and
enhance FEIC's environmental competence and improve its coordination of
environmental management with the central and local governments.
D.  Proiect Description
5.4         The project would include the following componentss
(a)   Fundina for Communal  Infrastructure Development.   Under this
component, FEC will make subloans to local governments for about 250
subprojects aimed at rehabilitating and expanding urban and rural
infrastructure and services.   Except for investments involving
resettlement (FEC-financed investments involving resettlement will
have appropriate conditionalities, including adequate compensation
of persons subject to involuntary resettlement), all investments
eligib:- for FEC financing in accordance with FEC's policy statement
and related project eligibility criteria agreed with the Bank will
be eligible for Bank refinancing. These investments includes (i)
street and traffic lighting and roads and bridges; (ii) water
supply, sewerage, drainage, and solid waste facilities and
equipment; (iii) transportation equipment and facilities; (iv)
productive facilities such as markets and slaughterhouses; (v) parks
and recreational facilities; and (vi) electrical power networks.
Studies to prepare subprojects will also be eligible.
(b)   Institutional Improvement of FEC.  This component will consist of
some training (mainly visits to similar institutions abroad), as
well as expert services, vehicles and equipment, to assist INC in
further developing and improving its operational procedures, and in
procuring equipment financed under the loan (Annex H). To better
define training, FEC, with the assistance of consultants, will



- 21 -
develop a comprehens ive training program for a three-year period,
program which it should submit for Bank review by April 1, 1994
(Annex H). Services and equipment will complement staff training
provided under the project and follow up on assistance provided by
French and US bilateral aid agencies for developing mAnagement
information systems. Detailed needs will be assessed in late 1994,
when bilateral aid is phased out.
(c)   Trainint  for the Local Sector. This component, to be carried out by
the Government, will support a comprehensive training program for
local governments and R6gies, as well as central government
departments and agencies that oversee and assist the local public
sector (Annex F).  Although the program concentrates heavlly on
upgrading managerial competence in all aspects of municipal
infrastructure development and maintenance, it also addresses
clerical workers, skill gaps, particularly those of bookkeepers.
The program includes training to improve the choice of investments,
and environmental reviews. The component will includes (i) trainer
fees for in-country training of central, local, R6gie, and
occasionally FEC staff, consisting of introductory courses,
workshops,   and  seminars;  besides  imparting  new  knowledge,
understanding, and skills, seminars would draw up on participation
from various regions of the country and emphasize the transfer of
technology and experience; (ii) external courses and study tours,
both overseas and domestic, for TDMI staff, CL staff, and trainers;
and (iii) technical assistance consisting of about 30 staff-months
of consultancy to be provided by municipal engineers, specialists in
training trainers, experts in municipal investments, specialists in
management systems, lawyers, accountants, and auditors. Consultants
would help develop curricula, train TDNI staff, and lead workshops
and seminars.
(d)   imnrovement of Local Sector Management. This component will include
computer equipment and software as well as studies with the
following objectives (Annexes C, D, and E): (i) development of a
program to continue improving local and intergovernmental finances,
including an assessment of the recent reform of local taxes; (ii)
exploration of the potential for privatizing local services; (iii)
introduction of an improved accounting system for the local sector;
(iv) improvements to the preparation and execution of local budgets;
(v) improvements to the review of investments by the local
governments and the Central Government; and (vi) introduction of a
system to produce, collect, and disseminate information on local
governments within the framework of a centralized data base.
Annexes D and E describe the terms of reference for these studies.
5.5         Financina of Investments. FEC will allocate its resources, including
onlent Bank loan proceeds, to the financing of priority investments.  such
investments will be defined as those which: (a) fit eligible categories in FEC's
policy statement; (b) pass FEC's test of project eligibilLty upon appraisal; and
(c) local governments insist on carrying forward, after FEC discusses their
investment programs with them and explains the effect of the related loan on debt
service and on their flexibility for financing other investments. Although FEC's
Board might assign priorities in the preparation effort to PEC staff, the
allocation of onlent funds by region, borrower, and sector will be essentially
demand-driven and follow the order in which priority projects--as defined above--
are approved and funds become available (para. 4.11). The Bank will finance a



- 22 -
time slice of FEC's loans by specifically funding certain subprojects submitted
by FEC. Under the project, the maximum sublcan amount for a single subproject
will be US$10 million, as projects requiring larger loans could be better
supported within the framework of Bank aector-specific operations. Yet, the only
limil on the use of funds by a local government entity will be that determined
by its capacity to carry out the project and service its debt. FEC will have the
same project standards, lending conditions, and financial policies for all of its
operations, irrespective of the sources of financing.  The Bank, prior to
financing, will review the appraisal of all subprojects with loans of US$1
million equivalent or more, and the appraisal of the first two subprojects with
a lesser loan amount in each subsector (e.g., solid waste collection, social
facilities, communal roads), submitted for Bank financing.  The Bank, moreover,
should be permitted to review FEC's records for any loan financed with other
sources, as well as conduct surveys for projects financed by local governments
with own funds. The total loan amount, as shown below, is being set to support
a viable investment program according to investment needs, the execution
capabilities of the local governments and agencies, the status of local finances
and the pipeline of subprojects.
5.6         By and large, the institutional capabilities of local governments and
FEC support the investment forecasts for the local sector, FEC's lending level
over the project execution period (US$115 annual average), and the proposed
project. In the recent past, local governments have spent about US$400 million
annually for about 4,000 investment, projects. Most municipalities and a good
number of rural communes maintain portfolios of priority projects to be carried
out over three to five years. The provincial governments help the other communes
prepare projects. The Directorate of Investments of MOl also helps with the more
substantial projects. Preparing projects for execution and financing usually
takes one to two years. In 1991, PEC appraised and approved 140 projects for
financing for a total loan amount of almost US$100 million, commensurate with
FEC's estimated loan level during project execution. These projects included
funds for financing consultants to prepare investments, loans for which FEC, with
insignificant losses, agreed to recover by making corresponding investment loans.
An analysis of FEC's loan portfolio of the recent past reveals frequent
deviations from the just-approved Policy Statement mainly in terms of processing
standards and procurement, but also reveals substantial compliance in inherent
project quality. This indicates that FEC can reasonably attain the envisaged
volume of business in quality subprojects and in the process, foster project
quality for all municipal investments. Yet, this also indicates that expecting
communes to adjust to the Policy Statement and FEC to process a substantial
number of eligible projects, as per that Policy Statement, will take some time.
FEC, moreover, lacks a track record as a lender under demanding banking
standards. For this reason the commitment period should be three years maximum.
Thus, the commitment deadline has been set at December 31, 1996 which, with a
maximum subproject investment period of three years, raises the project execution
(including disbursement) period to six years. Project design is still one year
short of the standard disbursement profile of urban sector investment projects
for Morocco, mainly on account of the moderate loan amount (para. 5.8). If FEC
satisfactorily applies its policy statement and rapidly commits loan funds, the
Bank, in about two years, should be prepared to consider another operation to
continue funding local investments and help upgrade local sector management. The
development of subprojects is further discussed in para. 5.11.
B.  Proiect Cost and Financina
5.7        gCct.   Total project cost  is estimated  at US$182.3 million
(equivalent to about 30 percent of total FEC loans and about 10 percent of the



- 23 -
investment program of local governments) in 1994-98 current prices. Foreign
costs account for about 37 percent of total; taxes for about 15 percent. Most
project expenditures comprioe part of an investment program with a pre-
established limit, so that neither physical nor price contingencies apply.
Detailed costs, particularly for components other than Bank-financed local
projects, are in Annex R. A summary of costs is shown below.
Table  5.1s  SUMMARY OF COSTS
(US$ million)
Percentage
Percentage  foreign
Foreign   Locat   Totat   of totat    Cost
Part A. Bank-financed local projects  64.4   112.1   176.5     96.8     36.5
Infrastructure                 63.4   109.6   173.0     94.8      36.7
Studies and designs             0.5     2.0    2.5       1.4      20.0
Institutional development      0.5      0.5    1.0       0.6      50.0
Part B. Institutional improvement of FEC*  0.8  0.0    0.8     0.4      100.0
Part C. Training for local goverrnents  1.2   1.1    2.3       1.3      52.2
Part D. Institutional fiprovement
of Central Government units   1.8      0.9    2.7       1.5      66.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   68.2   114.1   182.3     100.0     37.4
* Includes equipment, technical assistance, and training.
5.8          Financing Plan.  The proposed Bank loans totalling US$104 million
(US$100 million for FEC and US$4 million for the Kingdom), a modest amount
considering sector financing needs, would finance 57 percent of the total project
cost. FEC, in turn, would finance 23 percent of the project cost from fiscal
resources (bonds guaranteed by the Government), the Government 0.6 percent, and
the beneficiaries 19.4 percent from fiscal resources or internal cash generation.
The total amount of FEC subloans under the project will be about US$160 million,
equivalent to 35 percent of total FEC loans during the project period. A summary
project financing plan is shown below.
TXakl .2s PROJECT'S SUMMARY FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Financing            Amount    Percentage
Sub-borrowe&s' resources       35.3          19.4
FEC                            42.0          23.0
Government                      1.0           0.6
Bank                          104.0          57.0
TOTAL                         182.3         100.0



- 24 -
F.   Implementation
5.9         The project will comprise two loanss one of US$100 million to FEC for
funding communal investments and FEC's institution building; the other of US$4
million to the Kingdom for funding local sector training and the improvement of
the Central Government management systems for the local sector.  FEC wi' 1,
therefore, be the executing agency for the communal infrastructure development
component, as well as for its own technical assistance and training. MOI, in
coordination with MOF, will carry out the studies to improve intergovernmental
finance and local sector management, the purchases of equipment for the local
sector data base, and the training component.
5.10        Beneficiarv Entities.    Subproject  entities  eligible for Bank
financing will include all local governments and Regies eligible for FEC
financing. FEC will lend only to those local governments and agencies that fully
comply with the evaluation and eligibility criteria established in FEC's Policy
Statement agreed with the Bank (paras. 3.5 and 4.10, and Annex I, Attachment 1).
Most borrowers will be communes. As indicated above, R6gies are expected to have
problems meeting eligibility criteria and getting communes, constrained by their
own debt service ratio targets, to guarantee the R5giesg debt.
5.11        Develooment of Eliaible Suboroiects.  As already discussed, FEC has
far more potential volume of business than its potential resources could
realistically match (para. 5. 6). But most subprojects already appraised by FEC--
mainly for procecural or procurement shortcomings--fail to comply fully with
FEC's Policy Statement which FEC has just introduced. Still, FEC has established
its capability to generate projects by, among other things, appraising some
subprojects which fully comply with that Policy Statement just a few weeks after
such a statement was confirmed during negotiations. On this basis, FEC should
have no problem to rapidly generate a pipeline of eligible subprojects to start
substantial loan disbursements in early 1994 as now expected.
5.12        Eliaibilitv Criteria for Suboroiects.  Irrespective of the sources
of funds, FEC will finance subprojects meeting project-related eligibility
criteria, which are detailed in Annex I (Attachment 1) and highlighted as
follows: (a) the subproject has been considered a priority as defined above
(para. 5.5); (b) the proposed technical solution is that of least cost for the
benefits intended; (c) the technical standards of that solution are commensurate
with the population's capacity to pay fees or the local government's capacity to
generate resources; (d) the subproject will be environmentally sound; (e)
adequate arrangements will be in place to manage the implementation and operation.
of the subprojects; and (f) subprojects generally should have a minimum economic
rate of return of 10 percent and those of revenue-earning enterprises a financial
rate of return at least two percentage points above FEC's lending rate. Except
for subprojects involving involuntary resettlement, all subprojects eligible for
FEC's financing in accordance with its policy statement will be eligible for Bank
financing.
5.13        Lendina Conditions. Consistent with Government policies agreed under
the Bank-assisted Financial Sector Development Project, FEC's Policy Statement
establishes that FEC will lend at both variable and fixed rates.  Loans at
variable rates over its life will bear an interest rate of at least two
percentage points above FEC's marginal cost of borrowed funds. Loans at a fixed
rate will bear an interest rate of at least 2.5 percentage points above such
cost. To set rates at loan inception, FEC, at the end of each month, will
compute the marginal cost as the weighed average rate paid on long-term borrowed
funds obtained during the one-year period ended that month. Still, FEC will



- 25 -
adjust rates on each variable rate loan only once a year, within a two-percentage
points annual cap and seven percentage poLnts life cap, as established by SM.
FeC will apply similar rates to loans regardless of the sources of its financing
and the type of its borrower. Grace periods on principal will be up to two
years; the maximum term will be 15 years. No interest will be financed. Total
loans to the beneficiaries, as per FEC's Policy Statement, will generally not
exceed 80-90 percent of investment costs.
G.   Procurment and isbursements
5.14        Prgcurement.  Responsibility for procurement would be as followas
(a) MOT, in coordination with MO4, for parts C (local sector training) and 0
(improvement of central management); (b) FEC for part B (institutional building)S
and (c) the local governments or their designated agencies, such as the R6gies,
for part A (local investment projects and institutional development). If needed,
the local governments will be assisted by the regional directorates of central
ministries and technical assistance will be available from MO!.  Since the
pipeline of subprojects would be dispersed over many cities across the country,
committed separately for each category of civil works over a period of three
years, and executed and administered by different local governments or agencies
over a five- to six-year period, it would not be feasible to aggregate the
contracts into packages large enough to attract international contractors or
suppliers through ICB; moreover, local contractors are efficient and the market
is very competitive. However, interested foreign bidders would be eligible to
participate. Although no large civil works contracts are expected, any civil
works contracts exceeding US$2 million equivalent would be procured through
international competitive bidding  (ICD).   Civil work contracts with cost
exceeding US$150,000 and up to US$2 million will be awarded through local
competitive bidding (LCB), under local procedures acceptable to the Bank. Supply
of goods and equipment (mainly solid waste collection trucks) will be awarded
through ICB for contracts with total costs over U8$S00,000, and through LCD for
contracts with total costs over US$150,000 and up to US$500,000. Works and goods
costing US$150,000 or le may be procured through local shopping from at least
three suppliers or contractors. The works and goods covered by local shopping
procedures comprise: (i) works--basic infrastructure such as street upgrading,
improv emnt of banks and limited drainage works; and (ii) goods-mall trucks and
office equipment. The majority are to be provided in dispersed communities where
packaging is unfeasible. All awards would be made to the lowest evaluated bidder
upon review by the beneficiary and FEC. Consultants financed with Bank funds
would ba recruited according to the mGuidelines on the Use of Consultants by
World Dank Dorrowers." Prior review by the Bank would be required for contracts
valued above US$1 millIon equivalent for civil works and US$250,000 for goods.
Prior Dank review of all documentation would also be required for consultant
contracts valued at US$100,000 and above; prlor review of terms of reference only
would be required for consultant contracts valued at less than US$100,000, all
single source contracts, and amendments that raise the total contract value above
US$100,000. To help FEC and the sub-borrowers comply with Bank guidelines,
moreover, the Bank would make an ex-post review for all documents related to
Bank-financed subprojects (goods and works) for the first two contracts procured
under LCs for each type of investment descrLbed in Annex I (eight subsectors or
a total of 16 contracts). Furthermore, during supervision missions, the Bank
would review subprojects committed under the free-limit threshold, focusing on
procuremnt arrangements. All other procurement would be reviewed ex-post on a
selective basisl thus, MO?, FEC, and local governments would be required to
retain all procurement documentatLon. Because most contracts would be small, the
prior review process would cover about 40 percent of total contract values
procured under the project but in view of the arrangements, described above to



- 26 -
review the first two contracts in each subsector this percentage is considered
acceptable.   During neaotiations, agreement was reached on all procurement
arrangements.  Table 5.3 below summarizes the procurement arrangements for the
project.
Table 5.3: PROCUREMNT ARRANGEMENT
(US$ million equivalent)
PROCUREMENT METHOD*
PROJECT ELEMENT                                          TOTAL COST
ICe     LCB   Shopping   Other
1. Works
1.1 Infrastructure under FEC   4.6    143.4                       148.0
subprojects                 (2.8)   (79.4)                     (82.2)
2. Goods
2.1 Under FEC subprojects       2.4     3.0    20.0                25.4
(1.5)    (1.7)   (11.7)            (14.9)
2.2 Equipment for HOI, NOF and FEC               1.4                1.4
(1.2)             (1.2)
2.3 Equipuent and materials for LC               1.0                1.0
training                                     (0.8)              (0.8)
3. Consuttancies
3.1 oesign/Supervision                                    2.5       2.5
(1.5)    (1.5)
3.2 Technicat assistance. training                        3.5       3.5
(2.9)    (2.9)
3.3 External courses                                      0.5       0.5
(0.5)    (0.5)
TOTAL                 7.0    146.4.    22.4      6.5     182.3
(4.3)   (81.1)   (13.7)    4.9)   (104.0)
* Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts fifnced by the Bank loan.
5.15       Disbursements. Consistent with the project financing plan, the Dank
will disburse against: (a) 70 percent of the FEC subloan amount for eligible
subloans to the local governments; (b) 100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of
local expenditures for equipment and materials for FEC's institution building and
local sector management; (c) 100 percent of technical assistance and training for
FEC's institution building and local sector management; and (d) 80 percent of
technical assistance and training for local sector management. Disbursements for
technical assistance would be fully documented. Disbursements for contracts
related to civil works, equipment, and materials would be made on the basis of
statements of expenditures (SOEs) except for those requiring prior review by the
Bank (para. 5.14). Supporting documentation would be retained by PEC and the
sub-borrowers, and made available for review by Bank staff and auditors. To
facilitate project implementation, special accounts would be established with an
authorized allocation of US$6 million for the FEC loan and US$250,000 for the
Government loan representing about four months. of estimated expenditures.
Accounts would be replenished upon presentation of documents as stated above.
Modalities concerning the operation of the special accounts and SOEs have been
confirmed during negotiations. Although the proposed disbursement period is six
years, the project is expected to be substantially completed with most
disbursements made by early 1998, the fifth year of project execution.
Nevertheless, the closing date is being set at June 30, l9S9 and commitment



- 27 -
deadline at December 31, 1996.   The dijburuement schedule and disbursement
categories are In Annexes L and M, respectively.
B.  Nonitorina
5.16        Criteria for project success include the followings (a) maintenance
and further upgrading of the reform in the distribution of the local share of the
VAT among local governments; (b) compliance with lending criteria in the FEC's
Policy Statement, which should be similar for Bank-assisted and other FEC-
financed subprojects; (c) achievement of FEC's loan targets, which grow
approximately with inflation and GDPI (d) achievement of loan commitment and
disbursement targets; and (e) substantial compliance with covenants and meeting
of monitoring indicators by FEC and the Government. Because of the importance
of the undertakings of the Kingdom in its Loan Agreement in the overall success
of the FEC component, effectiveness of the latter is conditional on the
effectiveness of the former. However, the reverse would not necessarily be true.
5.17        To monitor project  implementation  and sector performance,  an
understanding was obtained durina neaotiations that the authorities under the
project would report to the Bank as follows (Annex N):
(a)   FEC is to report on progress in project implementation and the
performance of the beneficiaries by February 28 and August 31, for
the semesters ending December 31 and June 30, respectively.
(b)   Starting in 1994, FEC is to submit reports by external auditors
acceptable to the Bank by June 30 of each year, with opinions on FEC
financial statements of the preceding year, progress in project
implementation by category and component (for both the financial
year and cumulative), compliance with financial covenants including
those applicable to beneficiaries, the special account, and
statements of expenditure.   Auditors will apply international
auditing standards and accounting principles. For the provision of
loan losses, auditors will apply, in particular, provisions of the
FEC's Policy Statement agreed with the Bank (Annex I, Attachment 2).
Considering that FEC's restructuring has delayed the appointment of
auditors, the audited report for the 1992 financial statements will
be submitted by September 30, 1993.
(c) The Government is to submit a financial report for the local sector
by June 30 of each year for the fiscal exercise ending December 31
the preceding year.
(d)   Both the Government (with representatives of HOI and MOF) and FEC
are to carry out formal reviews of project and sector performance
with the Bank by October 31 of each year.
5.18        Supervising the project will require: (a) two two-week missions p.a.
comprising a financial analyst and a municipal engineer; and (b) a mid-term
three-week mission by a multi-disciplinary team of some five professionals.
Total staff-weeks needed to supervise the project is estimated at 110 (average
18 per year). Total travel expenses are estimated at US$350,000. A detailed
budget for project supervision is presented in Annex N.



- 28 -
I.   Benefits and Risks
5.19        Benefitsa. The project, with improved services, would benefit about
2 million people living in urban and rural agglomerations, including a large
number of poor. All investments financed under the loan will have high priority
and meet stringent quality criteria. Still, project benefits will go well beyond
Bank-financed investments on at least three additional counts.   First, as.
explained above, policy reforms and project conditionalities are designed to
increase the efficiency of all investments--regardless of sources of financing--
through the local sector. Second, actions to improve management systems of local
governments and central authorities dealing with the local sector are designed
to improve local services and the financial performance in the local entities.
Third, the restructuring of FEC and the reform of the distribution of the local
share of the VAT, in particular, are designed to enhance the financial discipline
of local governments and thus increase their savings. These, albeit leaving the
local sector largely accountable to the Central Government, amount to a major
reform in terms of economic public sector management.
5.20        Environmental Asnecte.  Many subprojects, particularly those in
water, sewerage, and solid waste collection and disposal, will have a positive
environmental impact.   Any possible adverse environmental impact will be
screened, assessed, and mitigated as needed &.ad consistent with the project
environmental category of  rB".   FEC will approve subprojects for sewerage
systems, solid waste collection and disposal, marketplaces, and slaughterhouses
only when such a subproject to be assisted or another by the same beneficiary
addresses all significantly adverse environmental aspects. FEC will employ two
environmental specialists who will be responsible for environmental impact
assessment reviews and project appraisal procedures. The Bank will assist FEC
in designing detailed and comprehensive job descriptions and project appraisal
procedures.  For projects that generate or deal with hazardous wastes, full
environmental impact statements will be obligatory. When the Envi,:onmental
Secretariat of M01--with Bank assistance--becomes operational, FEC will comply
with the guidelines of such secretariat and clear complex subprojects with it,
as needed.
5.21        Risks and Safeauards. Improving local services and sector management
countrywide is an ambitious undertaking which will require a sustained effort for
many years. The project is complex, addresses key sector issues, and involves
many agencies, some of which are institutionally and operationally weak or
untested. Three major risks match the project's ambitions and complexity. The
first is that limited project preparation capacity at the local level compounded
by a still untested restructured FEC may result in a slow pipeline of quality
subprojects and thus slow project execution. Submission of some subprojects
complying with the proposed FEC Policy Statement has already mitigated this risk.
The training component and FEC's upgraded organization and systems will reduce
this risk in the longer term.
5.22        The second major project risk is that FEC's managiment and governing
bodies could fail to maintain their demanding Policy Statement. Government and
Bank collaboration in designing the new FEC have already reduced this risk.
Covenants on FEC's financial performance should help further reduce such a risk
(para. 4.17).
5.23        The third major project risk is that the Government may be unable or
unwilling to carry through and maintain the reform in the distribution of the
local share of the VAT. Political interests at times may call strongly for tight
control on local authorities and their constituents, and thus for central



- 29 -
discretion in distributing the local share of the VAT. Intense discussion of the
VAT issue throughout project preparation has already reduced the risk that the
Government may fail to distribute the local share of the VAT appropriately.
Implementing the reform of the distribution of the local share of the VAT early
during project execution will also substantialiy reduce that risk. The entire
process of VAT transfer reform makes a return to the old system extremely
difficult. The annual reviews of sector progress conducted during implementation
should further minimise the risk that the Government fails to maintain the reform
(para. S.17).
5.24        Project financial risk, for its part, is minor.  FEC's recovery of
all loans to local governments is virtually ensured by the earmarking of budgets
making repayment to FEC a priority. Local taxes, the local share of the VAT and
minimal FEC bond issues would provide the needed counterpart resources to fund
the project investments.
VI.  AG}5SfMENTS AM  OOIMEIDATZI
6. 1        Duging neaotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it will:
(a)   by May 31, 1993, contribute DU 75 million to FEC's equity (para.
415);
(b)   by January 1, 199S, introduce an improved system to distribute the
local share of the VAT among local governments (paras. 3.2 and 3.4);
(c)   implement a plan, acceptable to the Bank, to improve local sector
management (para. 3.6)1 and
(d) take all measures as may be required on its part to enable FEC to
comply with its obligations under its Loan Agreement.
6.2         Durian neaotiatigns, assurances were obtained from FEC that it will:
(a)   carry out its operations in accordance with the agreed Policy
Statement (para. 4.10);
(b) onlend Bank funds for local government projects only in accordance
with the above statement and the eligibility criteria agreed upon
with the Bank (paras. 4.10 and 5.12);
(C)   earn a net financial return on total assets of at least 0.5 percent
in 1994, 0.8 percent in 199S, 1.0 percent in 1996, and 1.2 percent
in 1997 and thereafter (para. 4.17);
(d)   maintain total administrative expenses at not more than 0.75 percent
of the value of total assets (para. 4.17);
(e)   maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15 to 1 during 1993-
1996 and 12 to 1 in 1997 and thereafter (para. 4.17); and
(f) implement an institutional improvement plan as agreed with the Bank
(para. 4.9).



- 30 -
6.3         The conditions of effectiveness of the loan to FEC are as follows:
(a)   local governments sholid have assumed or guaranteed the total
balance of their R6gies" loans from FEC in arrears for one year or
more as of June 1, 1993 (pera. 4.15); and
(b)   FEC should have appointed its four main line managers and two
environmental specialists (para. 4.9).
6.4         With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the proposed
project is suitable for Bank loans totalling US$104 million--US$4 million to the
Kingdom of Morocco and US$100 to FEC with the guarantee of the Kingdom--at the
BankIs standard variable interest rate, to be repaid over 20 years including five
of grace.



- 31 -                              anns
Page 1 of 15
1IRSf UMIICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
LOCAL GOVERNIIENN FINANCE IN MOROCCO
XllffODUC!TQIO
1.         This annex presents an overview of local and intergovernmental finance
in Morocco, examines the allocation of the value-added tax (VAT) revenues to local
governments, and provides Information on local taxes and revenues. It contains
the fol:;wing sections: (a) local administration and services; (b) local budgeting
and accountingi (c) current and capital revenues;  (d) central government
transfer.a ant (e) local taxes.  This analysis of local government finance only
concerns those services provided directly by local governments and financed from
their resources; therefore, it will niot discuss the finances of public utility
companies (Rfgies), concessions, or other services provided through contractual
arrangements.
OCAL AMINISTRATION AND SERVICES
2.          The Moroccan subnational admanistration consists of two levels of
governments the provinces and the communes. The communes are subdivided into
rural and urban communes, the latter called "municipalities." Local government
councils have authority over most local public servicer and decide on the form of
arrangements for their provision. In the country's larger urban agglomerations,
water supply, urban transport, distribution of electricity, and in a few cases
sewerage services are provided by quasi-autonomous public utility RMgies, which
have been created by the councils. In some smaller municipalities and in rural
areas, water supply and distribution of electricity are provided by the national
water and electricity agencies, ONEP and ONS, respectively, under contractual
arrangement. In exceptional cases, transportation and water supply services are
provided through concessions. Local public services provided directly by local
government consist of garbage collection, construction, and maintenance of streets
and roads, recreational areas, street lighting, traffic management, wholesale and
rood markets, and sewerage services. The level of activity in these services
varies significantly among local governments. Local government investments in
1990 by type and sub-sector are shown In Attachment 1, Tables 1-4.
LOCAL 3UDaEmTNG AND ACCOUNT
3.          This section explains intricacies of centrally mar.nged local budgets
and how the lnter-budgetary flow of funds from one year to the next generates
surpluses that tend to obfuscate the financial resources available for local
governments' operating and investment expenditures. in 1990, local governments,
in the aggregate, accrued some US$1,250 million equivalent of revenues and spent
only about US$800 million (which includes about US$400 million for investments).
This resulted in an apparent surplus of US$450 million which, on the surface,
ouggests that their resources exceeded their needs or capacity.   Yet local
governments generally have resources substantially below their needs and execution
capacity.   Most of that apparent surplus is unreals it results from local
government accounting practices, which in turn necessarily follow from the
financial controls the Central Government imposes on local government funding and
expenditures.  Although those controls slow down investments and blur local
sector's finances, their proximate dismantl1ng is unwarranted, as they aim to



-32 -                                Annex A
Page 2 of 15
master public sector funds and constrain publio expenditures amid local dependency
on transfers and shortage of public funds. The flow of funds must be interpreted
within this context. A summary table is presented belows
Table Is Local Government Revenues and Expenditures, by Source, 1990
(DH million)
REVNUES
Local Taxes                                        2,672
Collected by the Central Government              1,205
Collected by Local Governments                   1,467
VAT Transfera1                                     3,449
Subsidies to Balance Current Budgets            1,155
Earmarked for Investments Expenditures          2,294
Borrowing                                            500
Total Revenues                                     6J21
Surpluses From Previous Years2                     2,800
Total Available Sources                            9,421
EX?-XNDIX=RS
Current Expenditures (debt service excluded)      2,740
Debt service                                         340
Investments                                       3,583
National Programs
Rural programs, water, electricity            1,349
Education, Health, Agriculture                  405
Others                                           1,828
Total Expenditures                                 6663
Surpluses (Deficit)                               2,758
Source:     Calculations based on statistics from
the Ministry of the Interior.
'VAT transfers earmarked for fnvestment exenditures for the year 1990 are entirely alloeated to nationat
prograum elnfstered by the Central Goverument. Local governaents have altost no fnvolvement in thes
proGram.
2 Surpluses from prevfous years are af lable for investment expenditures only. These lare surpluses are
caused by delys In the fupletentation of lnvestment expenditures and should not be interpreted as an excess
of resources (for a detailed explanation, see pars. 3).



- 33 -
annexA
Page 3 of 15
4.          The cornerstone of the system of local finance is the General
Treasury's collecting and maintaining all local funds, and paying for all
expenditures on behalf of lecal governments. To monitor this, the closed local
budgets show revenues on an accrual basis and expenditures on a cash basis. One
form of the revenue that flows into the budget is the cumulative surplus (current
eurplue plus transferred investment credits) from previous years. On the closing
date, it increases with the surplus of the current year (Figure 1). Furthermore,
as seen below, revenues are not necessarily disposable.
Fig3&zt.lt INTiRSUDGUTARY FLOW OF FUNDSs SURPLUSES
Year N-I               Year N                  Year N+1
Rsu     LpE             Re..   Egm               am      I.
midget               ;dget                      Budget
- cu t and Capi                Sfuusr  te prebous
Budtet supUs_               gear ao remded as
apltl rewemes In the
faftwbIq gear budget.
S.          Both revenues and expenditures are divided between current and capital
(Attachment 1, Table S). Current revenues include operating subsidies and current
expenses debt service.  Although the Central Government approves the local
governments' current and capital budgets at the beginning of the fiscal year, MOP
makes budget credits available for disbursement against investments only gradually
through the year as the General Treasury receives cash. Because local governments
can only tender for investments on the basis of available credits, that system
results in the accumulation of local funds as consolidated public sector cash, in
investment slippage, and in unused open credits accumulating at year end. Both
committed and uncommitted credits remain open to support the following year's
investments. Purthermore, local expenditures on health, education, and certain
agricultural programs apparing on the local government budgets are financed by
them out of transfers, but are managed exclusively by the Central Government. Any
delay in those expenditures increases the open investment credits.
6.          The above budgetary process together with the Ministry of the
Interior's allocation of operating subsidies to each local government on the basis
of their forecast current deficits has resulted in an incentive for local
governments to overestimate expenditures and underestimate revenues in their
budgets. The inflated forecast deficits foster transfers. The resultant surplus
current budgets of the present year will become disposable financial resources for



- 34 -
AnnexA
Page 4 of 15
the following year's investments, once that surplus is determined. This current
surplus, plus available investment credits at year end, are usually presented as
a source item (cumulative surplus of previous year) for the following fiscal year.
7.          The total system, thus, results in delaying investments (which are a
lagged function of past surpluses) and in showing largely unreal accounting
surpluses. A rough approximation to having revenues and expenditures on a more
similar basis would be to acknowledge that the cumulative surplus is merely an
accounting entry, but that the amount of disposable budgeted transfers is
equivalent to that cumulative surplus. The surplus, thus, would be nearly cut in
half, but still inflated by that of delayed expenditures of the Central Government
and planned current surpluses of the local governments. The delayed opening of
investment credits would still induce real surpluses of disposable over spent
resources, as it constrains local governments' planning and execution efforts.
Only the local authorities' accounting all transactions on either an accrual or
a cash basis, and managing local funds, would reveal a fully transparent financial
picture of the local sector. Still, those anomalies would substantially subside
if, first, MOI were to cease granting operating subsidies on the basis of forecast
current budget deficits, and second, if HOF were to open all investment credits
at the beginning of the year. Under the First Municipal Finance Project, the
Government will cease granting operating subsidies on the basis of forecast
current budget deficits.   Earlier opening of investment  credits  is being
considered amid some concern that it might result either in government funding of
local expenditures before receipt of local resources, or in the accumulation of
local arrears. Financially and politically, Morocco is not yet ready for major
decentralization of local financial management to the local governments. Yet,
distributing the local share of the VAT among local governments on the basis of
more objective criteria, which will foster elected local authorities' autonomy to
choose investments, will be a substantial step in that direction.
CURRENT AND CAPITAL RE ENUES
overview
8.          Local governments have three types of revenues to finance their
operations and investments: (a) local fiscal resources and other local revenues
(33 percent of total revenues excluding prior surpluses in 1990); (ii) transfers
from the Central Government which come from the proceeds of the Value-Added Tax
(59 percent of' total revenues in 1990), and (c) credits (5 percent). Transfers
take two forms: an allocation for local governments' operating expenditures, and
allocations for their it-estments.
Current revenues
9.     Local governments' current revenues include all tax resources aa well as
transfers from the Central Government to their current budget. There are two
types of local tax fiscal resources:   Local taxes that are administered by the
Central Government and those administered directly by local governments. These
three categories of revenues represent the core of the local government resources.
Each anounts to about a third of their current revenues as in Table 2 below.



- 35 -
Annex A
Page 5 of 1S
Tablo 2L Local Goverament Current Revenues, 1990
(DR million)
Local Taxes Collected by Central Government                       1,205    31%
Local Taxes & Other Revenues Collected by Local Governments       1,467    38%
VAT Transfers (Deficit Subsidy)                                   1,155    30%
Total Current Revenues                                            3,l27   100%
Sources Calculations based on statistics from the Ministry of the Interior
10.         Local taxes that are administered by the Central Government include
two property taxes, the urban tax, and the "taxe d'6dilit6," and a business tax
or "patente." These are major revenue sources for local governments (DR 1.2
billion in 1990). They are administered by the state because of the relative
comple-ity of the assessment and collection procedures (paras. 28-34).  Local
taxes that are administered directly by local governments consist in a series of
small taxes and fees raised from several economic sectors. Although each yields
limited revenues, on the aggregate they provide a significant amount of revenue
to local governments (DH 1.3 million in 1990). They were the subject of a recent
reform in 1990 which, once fully implemented, will certainly increase local
government revenues, albeit moderately (paras. 36-38).   Transfers to local
governments' current budgets are aimed at financing their operating deficits.
These transfers are called the "deficit subsidy" and are the focus of much
criticism because they create a series of negative incentives to local
governments' financial management. They have increased continuously in nominal
terms in the last decade and in particular between 1989 and 1990 (from DR 833
million to DH 1.2 billion).
Capital Revenues
11.         Local government investments are financed by capital revenues which
are resources strictly earmarked for investment financing. They consist ofs (a)
transfers from VAT proceeds;   (b) credits; and (c) local governments' own
resources or surpluses from the current budget  (Table 2).   Transfers for
Investments appear to be the most important source of revenue for local
governmento (DE 3,500 million in 1990). It should be clear, however, that most
of these transfers (about 73 percent in 1989 and 100 percent in 1990) are
earmarked for investments administered by the Central Government.   Local
governments' involvement in these investments is very limited.  They appear,
nevertheless, on local governments' accounting documents because they are financed
by local funds. These investments are centrally-managed government expenditures
and national programs, many of which are for rural development. Local governments
receive a small allocation from the VAT resources to finance their own investments
which, in practice, has never exceeded DH 600 million.   Since 1990, these
transfers, specifically earmarked for local government investments, have been
temporarily eliminated because the VAT resources were insufficient to finance all
programs for which they were allocated (paxa. 19).
12.         Credits come primarily from the Communal Infrastructure Fund (Ponds
d'Squipement Communal - PEC), an institdtion responsible for channeling fiscal
resources to local governments. These credits provide limited revenues and are
irregularly distributed among them. The management of these loans is inadequate,
nd the FEC in its current institutional setting is unable to introduce a better



- 36-                              Annx A
Page 6 of 15
management of the lending system. The major drawbacks of this system can be
summarized as follows:
(a) FEC does not have mandatory lending policies, particularly concerning the
financial performance of borroweral thus FEC does not pay attention to local
government  finances.    Loans  are  granted  independently  from  local
governments' capacity to reimburse their loans as all loan reimbursements
are guaranteed by the Central Government through the deficit subsidyg
(b) loans cover 100 percent of the investment costs;
(c)  FEC lacks qualified staff to appraise and supervise projects.  On-site
visits are not made before loans are granted or during the project
implementation. FEC's analyses prior to lending are cursory and are based
on limited information; and
(d) no substantive conditions are imposed on loan disbursements.
13.         Local government current expenditures are dominated by their personnel
costs, which took up about one-third of their total operating expenditures in 1990
(DH 1 billion). Investments are primarily made in street and road constructions
and in various types of buildings (Tables 3 and 4).
Tahlae as Urban Commune investments, 1990
(DDH million)
New Construction
Streets and sidewalks                             176
Sewers                                             76
Electricity                                        77
Water                                              23
Other Infrastructure                                8
Administrative Buildings                           S1
Markets                                            57
Housing                                            16
Other Buildings                                   146
Other New Construction                             92
Integrated Investments                              281
Real Estate                                          25
Cars, Trucks, Furniture, etc
Subsidies, Other Budgets & Fond de Concours
Total
Sources Ministry of the Interior



37-                               AnngxA
Page 7 of 15
Table 4Ls Local Government Investments, 1990
(DH million)
New Construction                                   1,740
Integrated Investments                               439
Land and Other Real Estate                            40
Cars, Trucks, Furniture, etc.                        404
Subsides to annex budgets (other services)           268
Others                                               641
TOTAL                                              3,583
Sources Ministry of the Interior
CENTRAL GR92RNMENT TRANSFERS
Increasina Central Government Transfers to the Local Sector
14.         Central Government transfers to local governments have been increasing
continuously since the 1976 local government reform.   The sharpest increase
occurred in 1985 when the law allocating at least 30 percent of the VAT revenues
to the local sector was implemented for the first time in 1988. Table 5 below
shows that in one year, between 1987 and 1988, these transfers increased 71
percent.
Table 5s Central Governaent Transfers to Local Governments, 1984-1990
(DH million)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Total Transfers    1.377   1.492   1.680   1,600   2.870   3.012   3.449
Deficit Subsidy       SOO     613     674     629      690     833   1,155
Investments          877      879   1,006     971   2,180   2,179   2,294
Source: Ministry of the Interior
15.         This increase in the resources allocated to the local sectors did not
necessarily translate into a proportional increase in local government revenues.
Only a part of VAT resources are transferred to the local governments for their
own activities. The rest are used to finance several other programs, some of
which benefit small rural localities and require centralized management for
efficiency.   But a large portion of these programs are closer to Central
Government expenditures financed through what should be the local share of the VAT
resources. These programs are growing in numbers, primarily as a consequence of
Central Government budget constraints.  VAT resources allocated to the local
sector are thus rapidly becoming insufficient. In brief, VAT resources serve the
following purposes:   (a) to balance local government current budgets; (b) to
finance national programs such as rural development programs and other Central
Government expenditures that are identified as priority investments; and (c) to
provide local governments with investment subsidies (Tables 6 and 7 and Attachment
1, Table 6).



-38 -                               AnneUA
Page a of 15
Table 6* Allocation of VAT Resources, 1988-1990
(DH million)
1988         1989         1990
TRANSFERS TO LOCAL   2ER      1              1,           1.41          1.153
To Current Budgets (Balance Subsidies)         691          833         1,153
To Capltal Budgets                             512          578             0
NATIONAL PROGRAMS2                           1.212        1.162         14755
Special Endowment                              978          633           803
Rural Development Programs                       0          281           157
New Responaibilitieu                             0            0           406
Others                                         235          248           389
SHARED EXPENDITURES3                           455          4Iii
Common to All Local Governments                  9          138            30
Contribution to C.G. Expenditures              446          301           511
TOTAL                                        I&= Z
Table 7s Allocation of VAT Resources, 1988-1991
(percentages)
1988         1989         1990
TRANSFERS TO LOCAL 0OVERSMENTS                   la          AZ           1
To Current Budgets (Balance Subsidies)           24          28           33
Ta Capital Budgets                               18          19            0
NATIONAL PROGRAMS                                            22           5
Special Endowment                                34          21           23
Rural Development Programs                        0           9             5
New Reuponaibilities                              0           0            12
others                                            8           8            11
SHARED EXPENDITURES                                          15           16
Coamon to All Local Governments                   0           5             1
ContrLbutlon to C.a. Expenditures                16          10            15
TOTAL                                            Q           Q
Note: 1991 projetfions revised In October; only OH 2.790.64 miltion more disbursed at that time.
Transfers to local govermants are used freely by local govermmnts.
2 National program are  bynagg b the Control Gowerment. Thse lnvestmnts appear on local goerrmnts'
budgets.
' Shared Expenditures are maad  by the kinistrV of Interior.



- 39 -                           Annex A
Page 9 of 15
The Deficit Subsidy
16.         The defiett subsidy is allocated to local governments to finance their
operating or current budget deficit.  It is based on local governments  Q own
evaluation of their revenues and expenditures, i.e., on their own projected
deficit, which is then negotiated with the officials of KOl. This allocation
system has significant drawbacks. It creates incentives for local governments to
underestimate revenues and overestimate expenditures to obtain more revenues. It
rewards politically-active local officials at the expense of those more concerned
with raising their own revenues.  It finally creates a perverse management of
local government debts as all debt repayments are automatically guaranteed by the
Central Government through the deficit subsidy. It pushes local governments into
requesting loans above their real capacity to borrow, as a way of raising
revenues.  It is a system that is not conducive to the efficient use of financial
resources nor to good financial management. Despite efforts from MOI to control
pressure from local government officials and to limit the deficit subsidies, these
transfers have been growing steadily through the years.
17.         These problems have been recognized by the Government, which has
recently developed the main concept of a reform. The proposed allocation system
is designed to elimlnate the deficit subsidy and introduce relevant criteria for
distributing VAT resources among local governments. This reform is reviewed in
more detail in paras. 24-27.
CaDital Subsidies or Tronsfers for Local Government Investment
18.         Capital subsidies are allocated to local governments' capital budgets,
on the basis of population, to finance their investments. These transfers have
always been relatively modest (less than DU 600 million) despite the original
objectives to promote local government investments defined in 1986, at the time
of the allocation of VAT resources to the local sector.
19.         In 1986, 10I required that each local government identify its
investment needs and submit a list of priority projects. This survey served to
establish a " project bank." It was estimated that DR 31 billion of investments
would be needed by the communes, and that these investments could be implemented
within the next few years. In reality, they never had a chance to be implemented
because the allocation to local government capital budgets from the VAT resources
remained modest. it is only after all other allocations of the transfer system
have been satisf ed that the amount of capital subsidies to be allocated to local
governments can achieve their own investments is determined. With the continuing
growth of the deficit subsidy and the increasing number of national programs in
the last two years, the VAT has increasingly become insufficient for satisfying
all these programs. Capital subsidies for local governments* own investments have
been the most affected by these trends.   Communes have to finance their
investments through their own resources and through borrowing. some communes may
have been able to use VAT resources allocated under the deficit subsidy to finance
part of their investments, but the extent of these investments could only be
limited.
20.         The treat&ient of the capital subsidy as a residual of all other
allocations explains why the amounts transferred remained small. It has also made



- 40 -AnnexA
Page 10 of 15
such transfers irregular and unpredictable, restricting local governments'
capacity to budget their investments.
National Proarame
21.         National programs use up an increasing share of the VAT resources
allocated to the local sector (51 percent in 1990 compared with 39 percent in
1989). Most of these programs are managed entirely by the Central Government,
local government participation limited to the implementation of some minor tasks.
These programa include large rural development projects--irrigation, water supply,
afforestation, and rural electrification projects-- which are centrally managed.
They also include special programs (special endowments) that are large projects
and expenditures conducted by NOI. Finally, they include expenditures common to
all local governments (for printing administrative materials and for conferences)
and other Central Government expenditures related to police services and to some
urban rehabilitation or renewal work.
Newly Transferred Responsibilities
22.         In 1990, some responsibilities in education, health, and agriculture
were transferred to local governments. It is not yet clear whether this reform is
permanent or temporary. These transferred responsibilities do not represent real
transfers of authority but transfers of charges, i.e, of some investment
expenditures to the local sector to be financed from VAT resources.   These
investments are administered entirely by relevant ministries and are part of the
ministries' investment plans. For education, they are small projects for primary
schools in urban and rural areas.   For agriculture, they include equipment
purchases and construction of facilities. For the health sector, they include the
participation in the construction of a large hospital project in Casablanca and
the construction of small health facilities and equipment purchases.
23.         These transfer of charges used 12 percent (DH 406 million) of VAT
resources allocated to the local sector in 1990. They have increased the amount
of resources allocated to national programs at the expense of capital subsidies
for local governments' own investments.
REFORM OF THE VAT DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
24.         The reform of the allocation of the system of VAT resources will bring
significant improvements not only to the transfer system but also to the
management of local government finances. It will eliminate the deficit subsidy,
replacing it with a systematic allocation to the current budgets of local
governments. The main principles of the reform can be summarized as follows.
25.         Out of the local share of the VAT established by law, the Treasury
would first recover, over the next few years, about DH 1.5 billion per year by
transferring to the local budgets certain expenditures of the health and education
ministries. During a transitory period of three years, part of the local share
of the VAT will be allocated gradually to phase out operating subsidies and
finance previously authorized VAT-funded investments which take several years to
complete. Then, at the macro level, the remainder (most of the local share of the
VAT in the fourth year) will be allocated 50 percent to the rural sub-sector and
SO percent to the urban sub-sector, largely reflecting the historical allocation.
At the micro-level, this allocation will be distributed among local governments
according to the following criteria:



- 41 -                               Annex A
Page 11 of 15
(a) an amount equally distributed (5 percent of the allocation), to replace the
phased-out operating subsidies;
(b) an amount distributed on a per-capita basis, corrected for social equity in
accordance with fiscal endowment as measured by assessments of local taxes
managed by the Central Government (50 percent);
(c) an amount distributed in accordance with per-capita fiscal effort, as
measured by collection of taxes managed by local governments (20 percent);
(d) an amount equally dlitributed to provincial capitals, to cover the
associated costs of managlng provincial affairs (5 percent); and
(e) an amount distributed at MOlls discretion, mainly to subsidize local
governments adversely affected by the system, as well as to cover
emergencies and common expenditures (20 percent).
26.         Local governments will use the VAT allocated on the basis of the above
criteria either to cover operating costs and service debt or to carry out
investments. Although earmarking will not epply, local budgets will continue to
be subjected to the approval of MOI, whic' will enforce debt repayment first.
Under the new system, MOI will cease alloe ting operating subsidies on the basis
of forecast deficits that include debt service.   FEC, moreover, will impose
maximum debt service ratios as eligibility criteria for borrowing local
governments. Thus, under the new system, the inducement to incur excessive debt
to finance lower priority investments will disappear. The objective criterla to
distribute the VAT should foster the efficiency of investments and the
accountability of elected officials to their constituencles.
27.         The system will be in place for 1995. An MOl resolution establishing
the system will be cleared by MOP and circulated among local governments by
October 1994.
LOCAL TAXES
Local Taxes Administered bv the Central Government
28.         The urban tax, the "taxe dwedilit6," and the "patents" or business tax
are summarized in Attachment 2, Table 1. These are by far the most important of
all local taxes. They generate one-third of all local government current revenues
and 15 percent of its total revenues (DH 1.2 bilLon) in 1990.
29.         The urban tax is an old property tax modified several times since its
inception in 1992. It is based on the rental value of buildings and the land as
well as on any equipment and capital investment made on this land. The rates vary
between properties used for businesses and those used for housing, and they also
vary with the rental value of properties. Exemptions and deductions are applied
in some cases; e.g., owner-occupied units receive a 75 percent deduction. Since
the lntroduction of the general income tax in Morocco in 1990, owners of income-
generating properties have not been subjected to the urban tax. To compensate for
this loss in revenue, local governments have been receiving, since 1990, all the
proceeds from the "patente." Before the general income tax reform, they used to
receive only 10 percent of the revenues from this tax. These changes will be very
beneficial to local governments once the procedures are well established as the
potential revenues from the "patente" tax appear to exceed the lost revenues from
the urban tax (Tables 8 and 9).



- 42 -                             Annex A
Page 12 of 15
30.         The "taxe d'6dilit6u is also based on the rental value of the
buildings and the land.  The rates are 6 percent and 10 percent depending on
whether the property is located at the center or the periphery of the city. No
exemptions or deductions are applied. This tax was introduced initially to cover
the costs of street construction and maintenance, though it is not earmarked for
any particular expenditure.
31.         The "patente" is an old business tax based on physical elements rather
than accounting information. It is based on the rental value of the buildings and
the land used for business activities. In addition, it includes a levy specific
to the type of business. Despite the fact that this tax is not based on business
activities or profits, it provides important local government revenues. It has
the advantage of being well known and accepted by the population and can
potentially reach businesses that are not subjected to other taxes. Any reform
of this outdated tax should first consider its relevance in relation to other
taxes, and the costs and difficulties involved in setting a new tax.
Table 8s Revenues from Local Taxes Administered by the
Central Government, 1989-90
(DH million)
1989       1990
Urban Taxl           530        459
Taxe d'Rdilit6       680        652
Patente2               5         94
TOTAL                ,         ! 2
Source: Ministry of the Interior,
General Directorate of Local Governments
Table 9s Assessments of Revenues from Local Taxes Administered
by the Central Government, 1989-90
(DH million)
1989       1990
Urban Tax            627        285
Taxe d'Edilite      826         832
Patente             826         863
Sources Ministry of Finance, Tax Department
32.         The urban tax, the "taxe d'6dilit6," and the "patentes  are wholly
administered by the Central Government. Like all property taxes, both the urban
tax and the Otaxe d'6dilit6" are costly and difficult to manage. They mobilize
I The urban tax was reformed In 1990, after the introduction of the general income tax. This explafns the
lower figures for 1990 and 1991 coqpared with those of 1989.
2 Only 105 of the "patenteO proceeds were allocated to local goverrnments in 1989. Sinre 1990, 100l of
these tax proceeds have been allocated to local governments. Low revenues in 1990 are due to delays in the
luplementatfon of this reform.



-43-                              annex A
Page 13 of 15
most of the resources of the Tax Department (Direction des Imp8ts) of MOp. The
assessments are carried out every five years by commissions formed by a
representative of MOF and local representatives. Before the Introduction of the
general income tax (GIT), these assessment were updated yearly.   Today, the
information gathered for the GIT helps trace rented properties and those used for
businesses and helps update the urban tax and the "taxe d'4dilite" record.
Updating records for new owner-occupied units is still a problem, however,
particularly in the rapidly growing urban peripheries.   Rental values are
established, by comparison, based on the rents charged within identified locations
and based on the type and the size of the property.
33.         Collections are hindered by disputes of assessments which are frequent
as well as costly to administer. The Tax Department is particularly sensitive to
social problems caused by these taxes. A typical example mentioned is that of an
owner-occupied unit where the rental value increases without creating any income
for the owner.
34.         There seem to be frequent delays in the collection of these taxes.
The arrears that build up (Tables 8 and 9) are due to disputes mentioned above and
delays in assessments and collection procedures.  These arrears are problems
Insofar as they create anomalies in local government revenues which hinder their
capacity to plan and budget their revenues and expenditures accurately.
Local Taxes Administered by -ocal governments
35.         Local taxes administered by local governments are summarized in
Attachment 2, Table 2. These represent about one-third of their current revenues
and 11 percent of total revenues. They are important sources of revenue for local
governmen*s because local officials have authority over the rates for about 40
percent of these taxes and fees, and are responsible for most of their collection.
36.         The 2gforLm.  In an effort to improve these revenues and provide more
autonomy to local governments, the Central Government has introduced a fiscal
reform. The reform law was enacted in 1989, and implementation began as early as
1990.  The latest tax to be introduced, the tax on "unbuilt" land, will be
implemented in 1992. The objectives of this reform were to:
(a)   increase local government revenues by introducing new local taxes;
(b)   simplify and rationalize existing taxes by modifying their rates and
bases to improve their assessment and collection procedures and to
increase their yield; and
(c)   increase and fix the rates of about 60 percent of the taxes and fees,
which effectively took away some of the authority on local taxes from
local governments.    This was judged necessary, however, because
local officials had not introduced any changes in their tax rates for
many years.
37.         Many new taxes were introduced by the reform and only one tax was
eliminated. Out of the 34 local taxes, only 12 remained unchanged. The other are
either new taxes or old ones that have been substantially modified.
38.         The fiscal reform touched many sectors. The urban development sector
was particularly targeted because that sector had been very active and profitable
in the last decade. Two new fees were created, consisting of the land development
fee and the obreakup of estates" fee, and the existing construction fee was



44                               AnnexA
Page 14 of 15
reformed. The tax on ounbuilt' land was finally introduced after a decade of
debate. The reform lso itntroduced transport licenses, most of which would he
administered by the Ministry of Transport. Both the transportation and the urban
development sectors are primary beneficiaries of the services provided by local
governments and, therefore, can be qualified as appropriate sectors subject to
taxation.  The reform  further introduced a new hotel tax which raised some
protests from the already stagnant tourism induetry. Other newly created taxes
were applied to fishing, education, artisanal activities, and the production and
sale of beverages.
39.         Preliminary Evaluation of the Reform.  Tt is still too early to draw
final conclusions on the outcome of the reform. The latest figures of local
government revenues of 1990 show some preliminary results which should be
interpreted with caution. Figures show an Increase in local tax revenues between
1989 and 1990, but no dramatic changes in the amounts of these revenues (Table
10).
Table 10' Local Governments' Own Revenues, 1989-90
(DH million)
1989    1990
Taxes            252      347
Fees             639      836
TOTAL            891   1,183
Sources Ministry of the Interior
40.        The reform allocated to provinces and prefectures a series of fees,
which have increased substantially their tax revenues, from DH 3 million in 1989
to DR S-i million in 1990. Most of these revenues can be attributed to a drivers'
license fee and a hunting fee (Table 11).
41.         Urban communes benefitted from the rehabilitation and extension of
existing taxes which already provided them with important revenues before the
reforms the construction fees and the wholesale and market fees, which were
extended to the fishing sector. Taxes on beverages were radically transformed and
doubled their yield after the reform. Their revenues were, however. relatively
modest.
42.         Revenues from forests continue to be the primary resources for a small
number of rural communes. Overall, rural communes have also benefitted from the
reform of their fee system. Their revenues from fees have increased in the same
proportion as those of urban communes.
43.         At thli early stage of the reform, local government revenues from
local taxes and fees have already increased.  Most of the increases can be
attributed to existing taxes that have been rehabilitated and extended. It is
also these taxes that generate the highest revenues (Table 11).   New taxes
produced limited revenues, as some require more time to be fully implemented and
efficiently administered. It is, nevertheless, clear that the reform did not
introduce any major taxes into the local government revenue system.



- 45-                                         Annex A
Page 15 of 15
a .l*  U         oal Taxea an   fees  adminIstered by Local Goveramets,, 1990
Prefctrs
Nd         mnicipal-       Rl
Tax"s an  Fe                          Provinces        ities       Coauno          Total           X
(a) R8evene frm Forest                                                 248           248           21X
cm) Rote Tax                                               5                           5            ox
(R) Tax an Beveramg                                        7                           7            1X
CU) U",erI a  t Tax                                       12                          12           1t
(M) Tax mn sS tim Evfts                                    1                           I            01
(I) Tax an Prvate Udscatin                                 2                           2            OX
(N) Oriver*s Lice FPes                      20                                        20            2X
cm)  Few for Vehicle Visits                  5                                         5            0O
(N) Nuwting Fee                             15                                        1S            1X
Otbw Taxe                                            32                          32            3X
Total Tuns                            hQ             22           Z             at            29X
X ot Total                            12X           17X           711          1001
(U) Market Fe"s                                           77                          77            6
(R) WHolesaleo Markets                                   156                         156           13X
CM) Ffsh Markets                                          22                          22            2X
(a) Constfutin                                           115                         115           101
(N) Len   evlopment Fes                                    2                           2            0o
(N) Breakp of Esttes                                       3                           3            OX
other Fee                              12           118                         130           11X
Local TaXe of Rural Coinm                                         331           331           2ex
Total Fees                             Ii           121                         D              I
X ot Total                             1X           59X           401          1001
Total LOal Tae ad FeU                       a1 0 lOOX
X of Total                                  4X           471           49X          1001
Souroes Miuistry of the Xaterior
notes    Transformation  introduced  by the reforms (N)-New, (R)wRtformed,
(U)-Unchanged.
'Othwr ta  inelud tan cowmwrcial dspltay of, inter alls, goads (or wndows), pons, end transport
'Other fes iclude fee for, iner ells, mni    slaughter, eivil rgistry, esbulence,  d certifiattion



- 46 -                                ANNEX A
Attachment 1
Tables 1 - 2
Table-s LOCAL               ZNV3STNNS, 1990
Prefectures   NuIc-    Rural
& Provines  ipslitles  Cafunes     Total
New Construction                        S83        22      434    1,740     49X
Integrated Investments                    9       281      149     439      12%
L and oth gReal Estate                    6        25       8       40     1l
Cars, Trucks, furnmtur., etc.            83       216      105     404      11X
Susidies to wrmex buxgets                16       15S      98      268      8X
Others                                  641                        641    1n
total                                   .9      199^               310
latet                                       zm~~~~~~~~~~2  UL  100%
4t 6w0K  22X    100%
Source: Ninistry of the Interior.
Table 2s  SMEsSSMANNS    WA FUND8 ALOCA!RD 5O LOCAL
*BY SBSCOR, 1990
(Oi million)
Communal Development          336       19%
Social Facilities             212       12%
Klectrification               161        9%
Administrative Buildings      179       10A
Specialized Uquipment         185       11l
Potable Water                 279       16%
oommunal Roads                145        8a
sewers                        158        9%
Garbage Collection            101         6%
TOTAL                       1,755      100%
Source- Ministry of the Interior.



- 47 -                               ANNEX
Attac.1ment 1
Table 3-4
Table     NYUSN      o0  TVA VUD  ALL0CRED TO LOCAL
BJY 5XCMO, AGoREGATED 1988-1990
(Dli mllliQn)
Communal Development       1,257        19%
Social FaclIltles            794        12%
ZlectrifLcation              601         9%
Administrative buildLngs     671        10%
specLalLsed squipment        694        11%
Potable Water              1,045        16%
Communal Roads               542        8a
sewers                       592         9%
Garbage Collection           378         6%
TOTAL                      6.573       100%
Sources nlistry of the Interior.
Table 4s  LOCAL            INVUSII I3UT 1TS1r FINANCED BY LOAN8, 1990
(DU thousand)
Coaaunl Development             36        7%
Social FacilitLes                 0        0%
Electrification                   2        0%
Administrative Bulldings          0        0%
Speclalized EquLpment           178       36%
Potablo Water                    79       16%
Communal Roads                   82       17%
sewers                           33        7%
Garbage Collection               16        3%
Arrears (transport R6gies)       65       13%
TOTAL                                    100%
Source: Fonds d'Bqulpement Communal



- 48 -                                       ANNX  A
Attachment 1
Table 5
Table St   UW' LOCA  O            ra o   8S aND M    XPM UDI!NSo 1989-1990
(DH million)
1989        1990
PROVIIICg$ APEfECTURS
Rovenues
Current                            303          505
Capital                           1.734       2,109
Total Revues                     L..lZ        2l
Expenditures
current                            506          n2o
CapItal                          1,011        1,339
Total Expenditures               11M         9L
MMINICPALITIES
current                          2.086        2,443
Capital                          2,270        3,368
Total Reve4n.es                               Lii
Experiture
current                           1.652       1,952
Capftel                           1,32?       1.400
Total Expenditur                 L2.7         LiU
,.veIIue
Current                            750          91S
Capital                            920        1,372
Total Rovenues                    B7            Z
Expeditures
current                            478          62?
Capital                            S50          794
Total Expeditures                1.027        1.42
TOAL$
Current                          3,139        3,863
Capital                          4,923        6,849
Total RovenasL
Epnitures
Current                          2,636        3,308
Capital                          2,88?        3,533
Total Expendturs 
Sworce Ninistry of the Interfor



- 49 -
Attachment 1
Table 6
Table 6s ALLWOCIQN OF TVA RB0URCBS8, 1988-1990
(DR million)
1988            1989            1990
TRANSFERS TO LOCAL GOVERNM                                             1.411           1.
To Current Budgets (boloco  subsidies)                 69l             033           1.S43
To Capital Budgets                                     512             S78
NATIONAL PROGRAWS                                     1Jim1            lam6            1.75
Special allocations Cdotatiqes sp6ciales)              978             633             803
Rural Development Progrus                                              281             157
Lakes (dams for Irrig. & VS)                                         146              37
PNER It (Rural EtectrificatIon)                                       28
PEPR (Water Supply)                                                   17
Afforestation                                                         90             120
Arrears                                                119             123             214
TVA Allocation Previous Years                                                        117
Contribution Nossen II s oaqM e                                      110
FDCL                                                 119              13              97
Neow Responsibilities                                                                  406
Education                                                                            360
Health                                                                                20
Agriculture                                                                           26
Others                                                 115             125             176
Capital BOCL                                                         125
Exceptional Allocation                               115                             176
SURER aXENITRS                                           DI2             0               54'
Common to Alt tocal Goverawnts                           9             138              30
Current Expenditures                                   9              73              30
Local Government Conference                                           65
Contribution to Government Expendftures                446             301             512
Agriculture                                                                            8
Pre-eaptive Expenditures                                             214
Other Contributfons                                  446               8             504
ZSou: "nraLL                                                                           La
Sourc: Ministry of the Interior.



Table lt MLJOR TRS, MORCOO, 1992
|Tax                     Levied on                  Rntes            Collection Arra mnent                          Issues
Urban Tax            Residential iunts.            Appifed on 25%    Tax Roll Is centrally set.    The allocation of the PTT properties
Assessed Rental Values        of value for      Tax is coltected by central   causes a problem as well as split
with low and high vatues      residential       adalnistratfon and remitted   omnership of a structure.
excluded by area              unit at rates      (minus a 10% administration
(quartier)                   of 0 to 30%        fee) to Local governeents      More generaLly, since the rolltvis updated
only once every five years (1990, 1995),
Professional units            At a rate of                                     it may lag changes in rental values.  The
13.5%                                            use of assessed as opposed to market
rents appears to reflect the difficulties
associated with changing rents once a
unit Is occupied.
Taw dCddllit         Ssme basis as the urban tax      Same basis as     s_e as the urban tax (but
but based on propertfes not     urban tax.         no administration fees)
subject to that tax             Rates are
10% In urban
centers and
6% in areas
adjacent to
urban centers
Patente          Similar to urban tax but         Rates vary from   Same as the urban tax          Some argue that the  ePatnteM  levies an
(business tax)       hfiher base (valeur tocative    30 to SX                                          excessively high burden on Industrial 
normal. et actuelle) In some    (A group) and                                     facilities since It is levied on land               o
cases                           20 to 10                                         structures and equipment (including
(B growp)                                        office equip ent).  It Is deductible from
the Imp6t des Societes.
Ninumin apply B
Group also
liable to
surcharses      J
Source : Staff from Interior and FInance; Dahir 1-61-442 (December 30, 1961) for *patente' rates; Fiscalite des collectivitds locates et de leurs
aryipoentS (Dahir 1-89-187, Movember 21, 1989).
ft



- 51 -
Attachment 2
-  ~~~~~~~1 ~~~~Table 2
.S             ~                      P   I of 6
|  1  fil -5      3E    E..1  3U -..   i X
-|i L -:   I10                           0
I.  Vs4
,0
i~~~. - '!l i{ ii ']!1
U      Zs t~;
j~~~~4  LA



- 52 -
Attachment 2
-  -    .~~~~~~~" ~~Table 2
I                                                 Page 2 of 6
4.0~~~~~~~4
WxjL



TZablg  2 MI N R !3X35 AiND FRIE, MOROCCO 1992s DUSCRZPICKT  AIMD XSSURS
Tax or Fees                   Leved an                         aetes                    itur.                        Issue
fish market feen (Redevanr-   Vendors                      Centrally set                 Sales/Excise Tax    Easily collected surtax on national
coo suir les ventes) 1t01-                                                                                    tax. But does not seem well
1990                                                       3K (dosuine meritim) or 7K                        Justified.
.________________________ _,________________________       of   gross    sates
UImdtt wbhn land             owner. State and reltgious  set centralty                   Property tax by      Thfs fs projected to be a  ajor
(terrains urbairns non       land are exeopt. Also are                                   area not value      revenue course for local
btie) 1-01-1992              temorarily exempted           Villa ae DR 2 (SP)                                 govrments. one key issu  is the
unservleed tand, land osmed  Sultding area (ON 4)                               identification of lan  osmrship
loes than 3 yea                                                                 given both formal and trAdtlomt
latd omershfp systems. sec1. of
trasction taxes, there are no
inentives to flIp tand evry three
Vear.
Drivers license  (pels       Ohen license iss_ed           set centrallty                License fee           hy tos It not levied  uatlly?
de condire) 1-01-1990
o0 tSO
Vehicle check-up tax         on arat check-ups of          Set centrally                 License fee?        This Is In addition to the cost of
(vErificatton des            vehicles aged ten years and                                                     the check-up. There fs no obvious
vihicules)                   up                            Du 20 to DH 100 increasing                        Justification.                                U,
wIth size                                                                                       o
Large sotorcycle tax         Anutally on otorcycles        Sat centrally                 Excise tax(?)       There Is no obvious reason for this
(motocyclettes) 1-01-1990    with cylitder 3 12US co                                                         tax especially as a local tax.
0D  200 to OH 1,000                               Perhaps it can be seen as a noise
Increasing with si2e                          ,  tax.
BUs and taxi licenses        Levied quarterly on owner    Set centrally                  License fee         Use of road tax? Owners do not
(licenses de taxis et de                                                                                     voluntarily pay up sinme there is
cars) 1-01-1990                                            Du 200 to DoH 2,000                               no outward sign of payment.
increasing with size
0   :t
OU      rtf
0, F t 



- 54 -
ANX A
-                   - . .  .                    Attachment 2
IP   i    _     f g      Table 2
Page 4 of 6
IL_             . 
o X
U                        13SO! }e  M                1o 1X i
*                       AE          S    U
_      _    I          _  __



Table 2W s 1mOR !Ah           I ANID MM# MOROCCO 1992t DUSCRWTZCW  lD ISSIIBS
Tax or fee                    Levied on                       Rates Isture                                           _ssus
Carpet surtax (surtaxe       Seller                        Centrally set                 Excis tax            There Is no obvfous refson for this
d'estupfilage) 1-10-1990                                                                                      local tax. Iasity collected as a
DN 0.5 per s.m.                                   surtex an the ntional tax.
Buitding permit              Low-cost unfts are exempt    Locally set                    User feeo?)          This tax has fairly low rates.
(op6rations de               (logement dconamiqu.)                                                           Buitders tend to declare low
construction) 1-06-1990                                    Naxfia ammmt per s.m. (DH                         building values to benefit from the
20 - DH 30)                                       low-cost exemption.
Lot splitting tax            Ouner                         Locally set                   Sertvce feet?)       Fairly high taxes.
(oqpratIons de
aerelleemat) 1-06-1990                                     Naxiou  5Z of value for
SP5("?)
Lot servicing tax            osmer                         Locatly set                  Service feet?)       Fairty high taxes.
(op6rations de
loti1sement) 1-06-1990                                      axium 5X of lot servicino
cost
Ovfhang fees (Redeva_ s    Rental value per s.. (taxe  Centrally set                     User fee            If this Is a user fee, how is it
sur les saillies) 1-06-      d 'dilit6)                                                                      seit? Rental values are not easily
1990                                                       O.S of rental vatue                               trsditted from the Central
covernsent to local geveruenta and
I _   _  __   _   __   _   _ _   _  __   _  _   __   _  _   _  _  __    __J  _                                not  all  overhangs  are  known.
Ft
0    1-



Table a M IN R TX=S   AND -   fIII, MOROCCO 1992, D3SCR CXTOSU AND IsEn3S
Tax or Fees                   Levied an                       Rates                    Nature                        Issues
Temporary use of publc       User                          Naximun rate fs 40 DL per    User fee             Nedium rates.
space (rdevances                                           S.M.
dtoccupation tepr aire)
1-06-1990                                                  Set locally
Tesporary use of publfc      User                          Rates localty set and vary   User fee              Th1s is a payent for occpying
space- other (redevances                                   by use                                             public space.
professio.el les) 1-06-
990                       _                                         _ 
Teporary Use - mobile        On basfs of rental value      Centratly set on specific     User fee(?)          Appears difficult to explain.
gsods (blens meubles)        for the "patente"             ftes
1-06 1990                 _                                                                                                                       [
Forest product tax           Seller                        10t  of gross sates           Sales I Excise      Important revenue source for some
(produits forestiers) 1-                                                                 tax                  rural communes.
01-1990
Surtax on insurance          Insurer                       15X of lnsurmnce tax          Excise tax           Easily levied as a centralty
contract (1-02-1990)                                                                                           otl tected surtax.
Ouarryirn tax (produits de   Seller                        Varies with the products.    Excie  tax            Is this a natural resources
carrieres) C?)         _H 3 to OH 20                                                                          royalty?
Sourc 
Conservation with officials from Interior and Finance : La ffsalttd locale : evaluation de l'applicatfon de la r6forme, Ninistre de
lItntdrleur 1990 (In particular, for assessment of tax rates see p. 10-11).
5/5/93                                                                                                                                      'U       t
*,  1
p > 



- 57 -
ANNEX B
KINGDOM OF NOR2pQQ
FIMR MUNICIPA  FINANCE PROJECT
PROGRAM TO DEVELOP AND INTRODUCE A NEW VAT DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
1.          commencing with Fiscal Year (Government) 1995, the Guarantor will
apply a now system, acceptable to the Bank, to allocate the share of revenues
from the value-added tax (VAT) earmarked for the Guarantor's local
administrationsg this system will, if necessary, be modified as agroed with the
Bank.
2.          In order to put this system into effect, the Guarantor shall:
(a)  prepare and issue not later than October 31, 1993, a circular to the
local administrations outlining the objectives and main principles
of the systems
(b)   develop the details of this system during Fiscal Year 1994 in
collaboration with the Bank; and
(a)  prepare and issue not later than October 31, 1994, instructions to
the local administrations, describing the details of the new system.
3.          Under the system to be introduced in Fiscal Year 1995, at least half
of the VAT revenues earmarked for local governments will be distributed on the
basis of objective criteria, including populatLon size, flscal potential, and
fLscal effort. These revenues will be used by local governments to cover their
operating expenses, meet their debt service requLrements, and finance thelr
investments.
4.          In Fiscal Year 1994, an amount at least eual to the amount
distributed in Fiscal Year 1993 to local governments on the basLs of sLze of
population, wlll, except in the event of emergencies, be distributed to the local
governments on thLs same basls.
c:%J%mf fnf imc-b.vwV
5/7/9



- 58 -                              Am
KINGDOM OF MOROCO
FIRST MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
PLAN OF ACTION TO IMPROVE LOCAL SECTOR MbNAGEMENT
AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL FINANCES
To improve the institutional capabilities of local governments,
central tutelage over the local sector, and intergovernmental finances, the
Government will carry out actions as followst
ACTIONS                                              TARGET TIME FRAME
Local sector trainina
Implement a traLning program primarily for           Throughout project
staff of local governments and agencies as           execution, updating
annually updated in agreement with the Bank.         program by October 31,
each year
Technical assistance
Contract consultants to improve the central          By December 31, 1994.
management systems for the local sector and
develop a central data base.
DiLcuss with the Bank the diagnosis of those         By September 30, 1995.
studies and develop an implementation strategy
taking Bank comments into account.
Complete the design of improved management           By June 30, 1996.
systems.
Start implementing the above systems.                By January 1, 1997.
Tralnina for Government officials
Implement a training program for staff of the        Throughout project
Mlnistries of the Interior and FLnance who           execution.
deal with the local sector. This will consist
primarily of visits to similar agencies
abroad.
Local and interogovernmental finance and
1rLvati-at4 4n
Put in place a team of professionals,                By December 31, 1995.
includLag consultants, to seek means to
further develop local and intergovernmental
finance, and assess prospects for
privatization.
Discuss with the Bank the recommendations of         By January 1, 1997.
the team, and undertake actions agreed upon
durlng such discussions.
c:sJVwufnf%nex-c
56/0



- 59 -
ANX 
Page 1 of 3
KINGDOM OF MOrMCCO
FIRST MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR A STUDY ON LOCAL AND INTEBROVERNMENTAL FINANCE
1.        These terms of reference uet forth the objectives, arrangements, and
scope of work of study to improve the local and intergovernmental finances of the
Kingdom of Morocco.
2.        nagrgong.  At the end of 1994, the Moroccan Government will have
completed an important cycle of reform on local and intergovernmental finance.
The main reforms include: (a) modifications to the system of local taxes (1990-
1992); (b) the transfer of certain expenditures managed by line ministries to
local budgets, this transfer varying over time as to the amount and nature of the
expenditures (since 1990); (c) increase in the number of local governments and
the inclusion of regions among such governments (1992); and (d) introduction of
a new system to distribute the local share of the value-added tax (VAT) among
local governments (1994). The completion of this cycle offers a good vantage
point to review in perspective past progress and formulate a strategy for further
improving local and intergovernmental finances.
3.        Qgbiective.    The study will have the following objectivess
(a) assess the most appropriate distribution of responsibilities among the
different  levels  of  government   between  local  governments  and
autonomous local agencies, and between the local public and private
sectors;
(b) assess the expenditures of local governments from the staadpoint of
their efficiency and spillover of benefits;
(a) assess the effect of transfers on the behavior of local governments,
with emphasis on those related to fiscal effort;
(d) assess the adequacy of principles and mechanisms for determining the
amount of Government transfers to the local sector and the mechanism
for distributing that amount among local governments
() assess the adequacy of sources of autonomous revenue of local
governments as to base, rate, perception costs, and impact of
privatization; and
(f) assess prospects for local governments' obtaining financing from the
financial sector on market terms.
4.        Oranizational Aruanmmnts.   The Moroccan authorities will appoint
a steering committee (four to five members) chaired by a representative of the
Ministry of the Interior and including representatives of the Ministry of



- 60 -
ANNEX D
Page 2 of 3
Finance, the local governments, and the Bank Al-Naghrib, and organize a task
force as follows:
(a) a senior professional--designated government official or preferably
independent consultant--conversant in economic policy and governance--
to act as technical coordinator of the task force and rapporteur of
the summary conclusions and strategy;
(b) the following senior specialists (who could be hired individually or
from consulting firms): (i) economist with expertise in taxes, local
finances, and transfers; (ii) specialist (economist, urban planner,
financial analyst, engineer or municipal administrator) in the
expenditure side of local government finanee, necessarily with inside
exposure to municipal management; (iii) professional conversant in
privatization policy and procedures, with substantial inside exposure
to the privatization process; (lv) financial economist conversant in
the financial sectorl and (v) sector specialists (transport, water,
solid waste, slaughterhouses) for short periods, mainly to help in the
study on privatization aspects, as needed; and
(c) research assistants for data gathering and analysis as well as support
staff (who also could be hired individually or from consulting firms).
S.        Scone of Work.  Senior professionals will carry out the following
tasks:
(a) Technical coordinator, who will coordinate technical aspects of the
study, and draft the conclusions, strategy, and plan of action
resulting from the effort of the task force.
(b)  ]iscal econogist, who will be responsible for the local finance,
intergovernmental finance, and macro-economic linkages of the study
[primarily 3.(c)-(e) above and major aspects of 3.(a)1.   That
professional's main tasks would be to: (i) determine a reasonable
level of own revenues and expenditures of the local sector, as well as
fit between apparent institutional capabilities of the local
governments, resources and responsibilitiesl (iL) assess the VAT
reform of 1994, paying special attention to the mechanims for
distribution among local governments and incentives for increasing
fiscal efforts and (iii) assess the reform of local taxes of 1992 and
recommend improvements taking into account potential rearrangements of
the mix of central and local taxes as well as macro-economic
constraints.
(c)  Soecialist on expenditures, who will be responsible for assessing the
expenditures of local governments, both current and capital.   In
carrying out this work, that professional will* (i) review the
administrative accounts, budgets, investment programs, organizational
arrangements for the provision of services and investment programs of
a representative number of municipalities, rural communes, provinces,
and regions; (ii) if available, analyze the report of the project
performance review; (iii) in the areas subject to review, inquire
whether potential projects benefitting more than one commune are



- 61 -
aNX D
Page 3 of 3
perceived, and what steps are being taken to either carry out such
projects or substituting them for individual solutions; (iv) identify
constraints to better investment performance in terms of allocation of
resources and execution of investments; and (v) assess whether
maintaining investments is a substantial problem.
(d) Financial economist, who wills (l) assess the constrsints to private
market financing for local governments; (Ui) define the conditions
under which such financing would be possible; (iii) assess how
realistic these conditions are; and (iv) to the extent possLble,
formulate a plan to enable local governments to gain access to the
financial markets and recast the future role of FEC.
6.       Reots. The task force will produce at least the following reportss
(a) a comprehensive strategy to further upgrade local and intergovernmental
finance; (b) a summary blueprint of that strategy, amenable to extended
circulation; and (c) one report each for the fiscal, expenditures, privatization,
and financial market aspects of the strategy.
7.        Seminax.  Upon completion of task force activities, the steering
committee will organize a seminar with participation of the private sector.
c:%J%utfnf annax-d
5s9n93



- 62 -
ANEX 
Page 1 of 6
XINGDOm Or MORQCO
FIRST MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
STIDY TO DEVELOP THE LOCAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS
TERMS Or REFERENCE
1.        These  terms of  reference,  in  addition to providing  essential
background, describe the objectives, scope of work, necessary tasks, and working
arrangements for a study aiming to improve the management information systems of
the Moroccan local sector (some 1,600 local governments overseen by the
Xinistries of the Interior and Finance).
Backaround
2.        The management information systems of the local sector--specially on
financial aspects--call for substantial improvement in the following four main
areas$
(a) Regortino and Plannino. Senior local authorities lack clear reports
to monitor performance of their communes as well as practical models
of medium-term financial planning.
(b)  Accountina.   The present accounting system does not allow for
monitoring of assets and liabilities of local governments.  It is
designed primarily to monitor the availability of budget credits and
cash expenditures carried out on the basis of those credits. Even if
this  is  necessary--au  the  Central  Government  manages  cash
corresponding to local resources--local government e-counting in
Morocco should also help manage the assets and liabilities of the
local governments.
(c) Budjetina. The present budget system falls short of permitting an
expeditious formulation, execution, and control of the local
governmentsa  budgets.   Local budgets are prepared by the local
authorities, but must be approved by the Ministry of the Interior
(NOI) with clearance from the Ministry of Finance (MOF).   These
budgets include current and capital components, annexes for more or
less self-standing enterprises wlth Ldentifiable costs and benefits,
and special accounts to control resources with specific assignment.
As of now, MOS approves current budgets around Fabruary (fiscal year
starts January 1), allowing execution of current expenditures on the
basis of the past year's budget during the first two months of the
present fiscal year. The investment budgets--as estimates--are now
approved at the same time as the current budgets; but investment
credits lag behin;', as those funded with current surpluses must await
the liquidation of the previous year's budget, and those funded with
VAT resources must await actual collection of the VAT. The Central
Government review  expendltures for legal and accounting regularity
before authorizing payments.  Ex-post control is unsystematic and
generally minimal.   These arrangements, Ln part, reflect central



- 63 -
Page 2 of 6
control of cash--which is likely to continue over the decade--and the
need to avert local arrears. Out, to the extent possible, the local
sector needs that budget formulation, execution and control procedures
become more off icent.
(d) Xnveetments. Local government counclls, on the basis of consultant
reports and recommendations of the lnvestment and financial sub-
committees, largely decide on local lnvestments, subject to central
revlew on a make-sense basls. The counclso, as well as the provincial
and central governments, lack a stylized presentation to revlew the
merits of investment proposals in an efficient manner.
(e) Information Manacement. At present, local governments send manually-
produced required reports to Mol, who coneolidates information
according to need. Consolldated lnformation, as needed, is given to
interested  parties  ln  paper  or  diskette.    Some  consolidated
information is published annually, but even summary data of local
governments is unsystematic and generally unavailable. The Government
and local authorities need clear published informatlon and efficient
access to a contrallsed data bass.
3.        In summary, in spite of slgniflcant advances ln the past few years, the
system of information--primarLly financial--of the local sector falls short of
permltting to adequately monitor the performance of local governments and
efficiently explolt the avallable data.
The Study and Lits Obiectives
4.        Thus, to help solve the above problems, the Government, through MOX in
coordination with MOr, will hire a firm (preferably) or a consortium of firms
with expertise in management servlces, munlcipal finance, and data processlng.
5.        Obct-ives.    The  consultants'  work  will  have  the  following
objectlves:
(a) ln addltion to financlal statement forms and budget reports (discussed
below), develop sumnary reports for the local authoritles to monltor
local government performance, and a slmple financial planning model;
(b) develop an improved local accounting system whlch, to the extent
possible, wlll show not only flows of budget credits and cash
expenditures, but also assets and liabillties, and variations ln
financial positlonp
(c) develop an lmproved budget preparatlon, executlon, and control system,
which should permit expedltlous processlng as well as reliable
monltorlng9
(d) develop a parsimonious system of forms for the review of speclflc
lnvestment proposals as well as the program or plpellne of lnvestment
projectst
(e) develop a eystem for the collectlon, centrallzatlon, productlon, and
dlssesdnation of local sector data; and



- 64 -
Page 3 of 6
(f) develop a computerized data processing syetem model for a mid-size
municipality.
6.        In the condiet of their work, the consultants will carry out all
necessary tasks to fulfill their objectives. These tasks will include reviewing
available written material, obtaining full understanding of and documenting the
present systems as needed, discussing issues with government officials, visiting
representative local governments, writing reports, and helping implement the
improved systems,  including providing on-the-job training.   The following
paragraphs address--by objective--the main concerns and specific tasks.
7.        Reportina and Plannina Models.  To fulfill the needs of the local
council and management, the consultants should develops
(a) a stylized reporting system including data, and indicators of service
levels, human resources, physical resources, and finances; and
(b) a computer-based simple financial projection model, which should
include service data as needed and project the basic financial
statements for several years.
S.        Acgounting.    The consultants should develop a double-entry accounting
system which, to the extent possible, should control assets and produce coherent
financial statemonts.  Producing full financial statements for selected local
governments, and limited controls on assets for others, could be considered as
an interim, practical alternative. The consultants should recommend a solution,
taking government objectives and constraints into account.
9.        Accountina Tasks.   In tle accounting area, the consultants should
carry out the following tasks:
(a)  define the summary financial statements of local governments, in
principle including revenues and expenses, balance sheet, and
statement of changes in financial position;
(b) define a system of accounts, specifically classifying revenues by
source, and expenses both by function and economic category, system
which, to the extent possible, should be compatible with that of local
budget classification and the central government accounts;
(c) identify, discuss and recommend potential changes in legislation and
regulations related to local accounting;
(d) establish a system to control engagements;
(e)  define the translation of accounts and items in the financial
statements into the accounts, and items of the budget system of the
Central Government;
(f) prepare accounting manuals; and
(g) implement the improved accounting system.



- 65 -
Page 4 of 6
10.       BudAeeting.    The  consultants  should  first  recommend  the most
appropriate budgeting system, considering the following issuess (a) compatibility
with the local accounting system and the Central Government's budget system; (b)
facility to prepare the budget; (a) treatment of deficits in a way that is clear,
financially sound, and compatible with other government objectives; (d) easing
of a priori control of transactions and its substitution an much as possible by
ex-post control of transactions.
11.       Budgeting Tagks.    In the budgeting area, the consultants specifically
should carry out the following tasks;
(a)  prepare detailed budget and administrative account formats, as well as
summary formats amenable to higher management reporting;
(b) prepare special, summary reports for the control of enterprise
annexes, special accounts and investments;
(c) prepare a detailed system of accounts, which should be compatible with
the accounting system;
(d)  prepare a budget control system for the benefit of the local
authorities;
(e) formulate revised procedures to prepare, review, approve, control (at
the central level), and liquidate the budget;
(f) introduce a system of ex-post, primarily audit control of local
transactions by the Central Government; and
(g) help implement the new budget system.
12.       Investments.    For  the  planning  of  investments,  moreover,  the
consultants should carry out the following tasks: (a) for several subsectors (in
principle, water, power, sewerage, drainage, markets, slaughterhouses, recreation
facilities and office facilities) design forms for the review of investments by
management, forms which should include information on the status of services,
demand projections, technical standards, and costs and benefits; and (b) design
several programming forms with investment programs or statement of priorities,
according to various levels of sophistication of local governments.
13.       Manaaement of Information.  The consultants should help develop a
comprehenslve, yet practical system to collect, centralize, and disseminate
consolidated and individual local government (primarily, but not only, financial)
local data. Two main issues pervade this work. One is what information should
be included in the data base. The second is at what level the information should
be converted into computer-readable form.
14.       Manaaement Information Tasks.   Necessary tasks in this area includes
(a)  deflne the reporting system, basic indicators in principle to be
developed at the local level on the basis, mainly, of the accounting
and budgeting system, detailed consolidated and individual reports of
local governments to be published for detailed analysis of the local



- 66 -
ANNEX E
Page S of 6
sector, and summary reports to facilitate comparison of local
performance among individual local governments;
(b) design a centralized data base, and the network to link the base to
data feeders and users specially including interface with the General
Treasury of the Kingdom;
(c) define where and how the primary information for the centralized data
base is going to be developed, taking into account the capabilities of
local governments and relative facilities for provincial, regional and
central levels of government;
(d) prepare manuals for the appropriate use and management of the system;
(e) recommend the necessary equipment and prepare the related bidding
documents with detalled technical speclfications and bidding
conditions and procedures, as well as detailed cost estimates for
government use;
(f) assess the potential for buying software and make recommendations
accordingly;
(g) help implement the designed systems; and
(h) recommend an organizatLon for managlng the system, and formulate a
master plan for further developing it over the next five years.
15.       Local Data ProceseLna Model.  The consultants should propose a data
processLng model for a medlum-size municipality, carrylng out thelr work up to
the system design level (no development of applications). The proposed system
should facllitate the adjustment and develoPment of applications by specific
municipalities.
Conduct of. and Arranaements for. the Work
16.       Phasint of the Work. The consultants will carry out the work in three
distinct phases--diagnostic, design, and implementation--with the next phase
proceeding after the Government has agreed to results of the preceding phase.
17.       Relorts. The consultants will prepare the following reports:
(a) some two months after starting the work, an Lnception report, stating
the preliminary findings and developing an updated and detalled work
program, revising that of the proposal, as needed;
(b) at the completlon of the diagnostic phase (three months after the
Government approves the work plan in the inception report), a
diagnostic report, mainly conveying solutions to the main issues, and
setting forth the design concepts of the various systems;
(c) at the completion of the design phase (six months after the Government
approves the solutLons in the diagnostie report), preliminary user
manuals on the designed systems;



- 67 -
AMLEX E
Page 6 of 6
(d) at the completion of the implementation phase (seven months after the
Government undertakes the implementation), finalized versions of user
manuals, the above system development plan, and a summary report
supporting satisfactory implementation of the systems;
(e)  quarterly progress report  .-xplainLng the work performed and further
means to improve work persormance.
18.      Uasponsabllitiga.   The consultants are fully responsible for making
their technical recommendatLons and preparlng final reports and manuals, but the
systems, and the responsibility for developlng and implementing them, belong to
the Government. The General Directorate of Local Governments will coordinate the
study primarlly through the Directorate of Local Finance. Detailed division of
work between the consultants and NO! staff will be devised taking into account
the proposals for the study.
19.       MOI wlll provide the essential office space for its staff and the
consultants to communicate expeditiously, but the consultants will be primarily
responsible for keeping their facilltles and provLding their transportation.
cs%jVwlinf%w21-e
1/14/9



- 68 -
Page 1 of 3
KINGDON OF MOROCCO
FIRST MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJCT
Introduction
1.        In the coming years, municipal employees in Morocco will be assigned
a greater number and a wider variety of responsibilities. This is due to the
decentralization process and the increased funding for investments in municipal
infrastructure made available to the Fonds d'Zquipement Communal (FEC) under the
project. Substantial upgrading of planning, organizational, administrative, and
technical skills will be reuired. By the end of 1992, the number of rural and
urban communes will have increased nearly twofold, i.e., from 860 to 1,545,
bringing the total number of local administrative bodies from 918 to 1,604. The
accumulated municipal mployee deficit will necessitate the hiring of about 1,000
new professionals, technicians, and skilled workers p.a. over the next five
years. Quantitatively, training will be targeted to about 11,700 middle- and
higher-level employees at the local level out of a total of 20,000 in 1993, which
grew from a total comple_ent of 9,500 in 1989 (Attachment 1). The required
training days, however, would mobilize only about 2% of staff time for training
activities, which is about five to ten days p.a. About one-third of all training
activities delivered would have to be devoted to basic administrative scills and
the remaining 70% strictly to project-related skills. Qualitatively, virtually
every aspect of the administrative and technical capacity of the local
administrations (Collectivit6s Locales) must be upgraded, updated, or both. A
consultant analyzed the skills needed for the kinds of subprojects that would bo
financed by the Bank loan (Attachment 2).
2*        The current training system for the corresponding administrative
positions is obsolete and physically unable to accommodate the above-mentioned
requirements. In view of the nature and scope of the identified skill gaps, it
has been estimated that about 70,000 training days p.a. would be necessary by
1997. This impressive target cannot be achieved within the time frame of this
operation, as the present capacity of the Moroccan training delivery system for
local administrative staff is limited to about 4,000 training days p.a.
Therefore, on the basis of priorities set in terms of both innovative practices
required and most urgent activities over the next five years, the number of
training days needed p.a. has been narrowed down to about 48,000. This revised
target has thus been retained as a basis for defining the training component
inputs.
Comnonent Obiestives and Taroets
3.        The component's main objective is to provide CL personnel at all
levels and Rigie managing engineers with the necessary skills to enable them to
carry out new tasks arising from an increased number of development subprojects,
to be conceived, designed, prepared, appraised, and implemented during the



- 69 -
ANNX F
Page 2 of 3
forthceming five years. About 9,000 technicians and 10,000 middle- and higher-
level staff, at the local and central levels, will require some kind of training.
Some 70 key staff employed at central ministries must develop specific skills to
enable them to interface with local goverrment and subproject staff, su,Vport the
planninag process, and provide financial guidance and clearance for many
subprojects submitted for FEC approval.
QmgMnt Descriition
4.        In effect, the Moroccan municipal training system will need to be
updated and a systematic skill updating system put in place to adapt new skills
to even newer situations.   This will be accomplished through the following
subcomponents:
(a)  gonstruction of a trainina center of about 3,000 m2, including about
1,600 m2 for residential accommodation of about 50 trainees, about 900
m2   for training space, and 500 m2 for offices and corridors.
Appropriate equipment and furniture would be needed to facilitate the
participation of high-level officials from various regions of the
country in eminars emphasizing the transfer of technology and
experience in addition to imparting knowledge, understanding, and
skills. The total investment cost would amount to about DR 17 million
(US$2 million), consisting of construction, furniture, and equipment.
The site in Rabat was acquired some time ago by the Ministry of the
Interior and its present market value appears to be excessive for use
as a training center.   However, MOI prefers this location for
logistical reasons (e.g., participation of central government
officials). Therefore, the cost of site acquisition has not been
included in the component cost estimates.
(b) delivery of trainina would be carried out by trainers from MOI and the
CLs. Consultants would be engaged to ensure adequate understanding
of  all  training  curricula  as  trainers  become  progressively
operational.  This process should start immediately, even before the
project is effective. Training of trainers would be completed by the
end of the second implementation year. The newly trained trainers
would deliver an estimated 28,000 in 1994, 39,000 in 1995, and 48,000
in 1996 and each year thereafter. The total cost of this subcomponent
would aLount to DR 10 million (US$1.2 million);
(c) technical assistance consisting of 33 staff-months of consultancy to
be provided by engineers (7 staff-months), specialists in training
trainers (10 staff-months), and experts in municipal investment
projects, specialists in managment systems, lawyers, and accountants
and auditors (16 staff-months). The total cost of this subcomponent
would amount to US$0.3 million; and
(d) study tours and other external trainina aimed at strengthening
managerial and technical competence.   The total cost of this
subcomponent would amount to US$0.5 million.



- 70 -
Page 3 of 3
7.        The component cost is ostimated at about US$4.0 million.  The Bank
would finance the foreign exchange and some recurrent costs associated with the
training of trainers subcomponent (US$3.5).
Trainina Commonent Implementation
5.        The training component, except for the training of FEC staff, would
be implemented by the Training Directorate of NOI, which woulds
(a) ensure the necessary institutional coordination, including the smooth
flow of funds from central agencies to CLe and enhanced communication
among all parties concerned;
(b) prepare a consolidated Training Component Annual Program (Programme
Operationnel Annuel - POA) to be included in the overall project
annual program;
(c) prepare annual progress reports for the component, to be included in
overall project annual reports
(d) provide a physical and institutional base of operations for the
consultants financed under this component and for ensuring theLr
efficient use; and
(e) partLcipate actively in mid-term and other evaluation activities after
having contributed to the setting up of monLtoring and evaluation
systems for activities included in this component.



I~~1ei [[Ifg
I~~~~~~' 'IiE@a8i
I~~~~Z2i  {i                  i



-4
02.       _        rIrI

1*   nia111I           112          Ii
0.*              0.e           a.*
                        II             U                 III
if             [I     I        if     U.           I
I                                                     I
* iiiissi   s I SEIs:s                                         -'
.4                                     &4-
i                     I IIIams IaS SIEI I
-4                                                                         -   .o
                                0                        *.        .4        0    N
N4 S33I a      a I IBiiIaaa  *I  IIIi 
0-4        b'
8.                                                                            .5
.                   9 IhIIuus Is!I
.4
$4 *?' "0  ..'                                 *0..4       8.0         -
*.4  -4(4  .4
Oh &.0 00   0
& *t -40                    -'  t4             50.6        4.0
8. j0.40                    .4  0.4            0a0         8.i@
JR   St.)  -'0  .          -'    f44          00-.        8.0        .6
go wwwiooowom   00b-4m   0    00-'@Q@D   uumg,.uUw   Ow inqROO0 (4 5
-4
g IIaUG;                    9I:s: *-I   sse 5
8.9 S$4 .40        *              0-'            Pf4'      SI.         I.



- 73 -
ANNEX F
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 5
PROJECT-RELATED TRUEING NEEDS ASSESSMENT
Introductioni
1.        Skill gaps identified in light of the managerial and technical
capacity needed to carry out the kinds of subprojects to be financed by the Bank
loan fall mainly into the following four categoriest
- application of modern management procedures;
-  development of management systems;
-  expertise in the economic, financial, and technical aspects of project
generation, preparation, appraisal, and implementation; and
- ability to integrate central and local government planning and achieve
inter-institutional cohesion.
Local Government Emplovees
2.  The General Secretaries assist local government officials in identifying and
planning investment projects, in assigning project-related tasks, and
coordinating the implementation effort.  Their educational background consists
generally in a law degree followed by one year of specialized training sponsored
by the Ministry of the Interior (MOI). Their identified further training needs
consist of:
Sensitivity Trainings
Introduction to the different stages of the project cycle
identification of subordinates' training needs
Training in Basic Techniques:
Bookkeeping and records management
Internal communication
External communication
Preparation of procurement documents
Techniques in assessing the economic and financial
viability of infrastructure projects
Workshops:
Methods in motlvating and managing an inter-disciplinary team
Municipal services management techniques
Infrastructure needs asseesment and project identification for
communes
Seminarst
Techniques in assessing the financial viability of local government
Techniques in managing large commune services
Becoudments
study tours



- 74 -
AM L
Attachment 2
Page 2 of S
3.        Projict enoineers and architects are responsible for project design
and implementation coordination. Their identifled further training needs consist
of:
Sesitivity Trainings
Identification of subordinates' training needs
Introduction to the different stages of the project cycle
Training in Basic Teochiques:
Preparation of procurement documents
Techniques in assessing the economic and financial viability of
infrastructure projects
Methods in commercial infrastructure management
Workshops:
Project economic and financial appraisal
Methods in municipal infrastructure management
Recurrent cost alculation
Methods in preventive maintenance
Impact evaluation
Seminarss
Municipal infrastructure problem solving
Techniques in assessing the financial viability of local government
Seoudments
4.        Municloal enoineers often head large multi-sectorial projects and are
thus in charge of other engineers and architects who manage project components
specific to their areas of expertise. The identified further training needs of
municipal engineers consist of:
Sensitivity Training:
Introduction to the different stages of the project cycle
Identification of subordinates, training needs
Training in Basic Techniques:
Methods in commercial infrastructure management
Techniques in assessing the economic and financial viability of
infrastructure projects
Preparation of procurement documents
Working with consulting firms
External communication
Internal communication
Workshops:
Production cost estimates
Project economic and financial appraisal
Methods in municipal infrastructure management
Techniques in transfer of technology
Methods in motivating and managing an inter-disciplinary team
Methods in preventive maintenance
Seminarss
Municipal infrastructure problem solving
Techniques in managing large commune services
Techniques in assessing the financial viability of local government
Becondmeats
Study tours



- 75 -
ANNfX r
Attachment 2
Page 3 of S
5.        Administrators and thelr adjunctg are in charge o_ a. variety of
administrative and legal aspects of infrastructure planning and programming,
including subcontracting, revenue projections, and research. They generally have
a degree either in law or from the National Public Administration school. Their
identified further training needs consist of:
kensitivity Trainings
Introduction to the different stages of the project cycle
Identification of subordinates' training needs
Training in Basic Techniquess
Preparation of procurement documents
Techniques in assessing the economic and financial
viability of infrastructure projects
Local government accounting
Bookkeeping and records management
internal communication
Methods in commercial infrastructure management
Economic and financial analysis
External communication
Working with consulting firms
Workshops*
Tariff studies
Public contract law
Recurrent cost calculation
Demand analysis, data collection, and social parameters
Production cost estimates
Techniques in transfer of technology
Impact evaluation
Project economic and financial appraisal
Secondfents
6.        Technicians and technical assistants  play a major role in project
implementation and infrastructure maintenance. They are graduates of specialized
training centers run by MOl. Their further training needs consist oft
Sensitivity Training:
Introduction to the different stages of the project cycle
Identification of subordinates' training needs
Training in Basic TechnqAues:
Working with consulting firms
Techniques in assessing the economic and financial viability of
infrastructure projects
Workshops:
Skills upgrading in construction and civil works
Accounting for public utilities
Methods in preventive maintenance
8eminars:
Municipal infrastructure problem solving
Secondeents



- 76 -
ANNEX F
Attachment 2
Page 4 of 5
7.        Clerical staff are generally employed in contracts adminLstratLon or
accountlng units. They also assist ln the preparation of studies and project
implementatlon. They are secondary school graduates wlth two additlonal years
of specialised traLniLg. Their identified further trainlng needs conslst of:
Seusitivlty Traisaig:
Introduction to the different stages of the project cycle
Training in Basic Techniques&
Preparatlon of procurement documents
Techniques ln assessing the economic and flnancial
viability of infrastructure projects
Local government accounting
Bookkeeping and records management
seminars:
Production cost estimates
Demand analysLs, data collection, and social parameters
Recurrent cost calculation
SmnLuars:
Techniques in assessing the flnancial viabllity of local gov
Public Utility Manaaers
8.        The LdentifLed further training needs of maAns Dniners consist of:
SensitivLty Trainingt
IntroductLon to the dlfferent stages of the project cycle
Identification of subordinates' training needs
Training in Basc Techniquess
Working wlth consulting flrmo
Economic and financial analysis
Techniques ln aessiedng the economic and financial   ablilty of
irfrastructure projects
Workshopet
Methods in motivating and managLng an Lnter-disciplLnary team
Project economic and flnanclal appraisal
Techniques in transfer of technology
Public utility management technlques
Accounting for public utilitles
Methods Ln municlpal Lnfrastructure management
Methods in preventive maintenance
SemLiars:
Municipal Lnfrastructure problem solving
Technlques in managing public utilities
Technlques in assesoLng the financial vLability of public utilltles
seconGdmets
study tours



- 77 -
ANNEX F
Attachment 2
Page 5 of S
Ministry of Interior
9.        The identified training needs of various officials at the Direction
Ggneral des Collectivit6s Locales (DGCLI consist of:
Sensitivity Trainings
Identification of subordinates, training needs
Introduction to the different stages of the project cycle
Training in Basic Techniques:
Techniques in assessing the economic and financial viability of
infrastructure projects
External communication
Workshopss
Recurrent cost calculation
Impact evaluation
Infrastructure needs assessment and project identification for
small communes
Techniques in transfer of technology
Methods in motivating and managing an inter-disciplinary team
g inars 2
Techniques in assessing the financial viability of local government
10.       The identified further training needs of DGCL subervisorv and auality
control staff consist oft
Sesitivity Trainings
Identification of subordinates, training needs
Training in Basic Techniques:
Techniques in assessing the economic and financial viability of
infrastructure projects
Economic and financial analysis
Workshopa
Recurrent cost calculation
Production cost estimates
Project economic and financial appraisal
Seminars
Municipal infrastructure problem solving
study tours
c:\J\mmf nn1am.x-f
5,9,9



- 78 -
ANNEX a
Page I of 4
FIRST MUNICIPAL FINANC EPROJC2
PROCEDUR FOR PS M11=8 AND AWM'LAN
A. Summary of Stens "- pamn Processing
1.         There are sx main steps in loan processings
- the local authority or R&gie, referred to hence as "borrower,
engages a consulting fit, to prepare a project proposal, whLch is
first reviewed by FEC and then submitted to the MinLstry of the
Interior (MO?) for approvall
- the borrower engages a consultLng firm to prepare a feasibil _.y
study for submission to FEC;
- vWu staff appraise the project and submLt a preliminary appraisal
report to the Credit Committee for reviow;
- the Loan Committee reviews the preliminary appraisal report and
make recommaendations;
= FEC submts the revised appraisal report to Loan Committee for
loan approval; and
- FeC informs the borrower of tha Loan Committee's decisLon, terms
of the loan, and date of loan slgaature.
S. P    t p     oal
2.          The borrower fLrst engages a consulting fLri  to prepare a project
proposal. The bcrrower then submits it to FEC for preliminary review, comment,
and possLble di icussion in light of service demand or sector lveastmet
priorities. The borrow r finally submlts it, together with FEC's comments, to
NO? for approval.
C. nbagAhlLtzuba 
3*          If MOI responds favorably, the borrower engages a consulting firm,
acceptable to FEC to carry out a feasibility study to be presented to FEC wlth
a loan request letter from the President of the Council endorsed by the Council
reqgestLig the loan.  The study sust document the tochaLcal aspects of the
project, including succinct graphic documets (e.g., layout, site plan), the
project's conomuc and soclal justification, project cost estimates, a draft
financing plan, potential eavironmental issues, the local authority's or service



- 79 -
Page 2 of 4
ar's    ographic ad economic data, and the borrower' a financial data for the
last throe fiscal years. In addition, it must provides
- for smal projectst detailed preliminary design with *stlmtes;
- for average-sixe projects  detailed preliinary design with cost
effectivensas comparison betwee two alternatives;
- for larg  projects.   detailed prel"iinary design with cost
effectiveness comparison among three alternatives;
- for slaughterhouse, solld waste sanagemet, and seorage projects.
envirommental Impact assessoet studLes.
3.     _A
4.         5he feasibility study is analyzed by P8C'a Appraisal DivisLon, whiLch
- verifies that the project conforms wlth eligibilLty criteria
(Annex I);
- perforom a prelimiary standard computerized data analysis;
examLies the siws of the projeot with respect to tbh  CS needs
and financial viabilLty; and
s makes recoI  d tios to the Director Goenral as to the amount and
possible mdifications to the projoect.
S.         On the basis of these ro      atins the Director Oeneral makes a
decision on the project scope and loan aount.
6.         t. Appraisal Division prepares a report based on a oaplete data
analysis, recommendatLos of the Director GOral, and'a visit to the projoct
site, a practLce that VEC should but does not follow. It sust be demonstrated
La the report that the project io technically, economcdcally, financially, and
vironmetally sound, and lt must be verified whether,
- *Lsi of the project Ls compatible wLth the needs to be met;
- technical modalitiLs are wrelwant;
- manageamt and oexcutLon modalites are satsfactory;
- financial results of the project are acceptable;
- financLal capacLty of the borrower is compatible with the
expenditures ivaolved;
- economic reslts of the project are posLtive; and



- 80 -
ANNEXG
Page 3 of 4
- environmental issues have been or are being properly dealt with;
7.          FEC may assist the borrower in preparing terms of reference for any
further studies that are indicated. This may also entail prefinancing a contract
with a consulting flrm.
B. Credit CoMMittee Rview
8.          FEC submlts the appraisal report to the Credit Commlttee for a
preliminary revwle. After recelving the Credit Committee's comments and maki"g
flnal revisions to the report, PEC resubmlts the report for the Comnmttee's
decasion.
p. Loan hamrd and Sgaature
9.          FEC lssues a letter Lnforming the borrower of the Credit Committee's
declslon and, lf favorable, invites the Presldent of the CL Councll or the
Dlrector of the Rgio to FEC Headquarters for loan signature.  The letter
speclfies the scope of the project approved for flnancing and the loan amount.
Attached are the terms and conditlons for dlsbursement and repayment, as well as
an amortlzatlon schedule. The loan document ls signed by the FEC Director and
the President of the CL Council or Director of the RhgLe.
0.  ame _  meJ Iti    ia
10    After the loan Ls signed the CL prepares the tender documents, generally
with at least some external support. Competitlve bidding is launched by the
borrower, after consulting with FEC. The borrower evaluates the submisesions,
awards the contract, and forwards all procurement documeatation to FSC for prior
review and loan administration.
R.  La= Adlaistration aad Administratio
11.         The first disbursement request is made by the borrower and takes
place at the startup of the works. FEC's Supervision and Loan Administration
Division ensures that the bid conforms with the purpose of the loan. Each
tranche is dlsbursed on receipt of supporting docusmentation related to eligibile
expenditures being incurred, work progress, settled accounts, and accounts to be
settled. During implementation, FEC staff or consultants vlslt the project site,
as needed, which is not the present practlce. Within osx months after project
completion, the borrower is obliged to prepare and submlt a report, and FEC aust
verify that completion of works and delivery of goods and services have been
carried out in compliance with the stipulations of the loan, which FEC does not
presently do.
1- 
12.         Thb borrower repays the loan quarterly.



- 81 -
Page 4 of 4
PROCEDURES FOR PROCESSING AND ADNINISTERING PROJECT LOANS        RESPONSIBILITY
1. Ppolmt Prooahl
* hiring of consltants                                      Local authority/R6gie
- proposal preparstion                                      Consultants
- subission for prelimfnary review end eoments by FLC        FEC
- submission for approval by the Ministry oi Interior in    Ninistry of the Interior
2. feasibilitv Study
- borrower engages consulting firm                           Local authority/R6fie
- execution of study                                        Consultants
- submission of study to FEC with loan request lotter       Local authority/Rdgioe
3. Prolect AmDrafsal
- verification of conformity with eligibility criteria       FEC with consuttant
= preliminary data analysis                                   assistnce, as needed
- assessment of borrower's nreds and financial viability
- review by FEC General Director
v visit to project site
economic, financial, technical, and environtal
evaluation
* preporation of appraisal report
4. Credit Committee Review
- submission of appraisal report to Credit Committee         FEC
- preliminary review of appraisal review                    Credit Camnittee
- finalization of appraisal report                          FEC
t loan decisfon                                             Credit Comittee
S. Loan Aga
- letter  motming loan award                                 FEC
signature of loan agreement                               FEC and local authority/Regie
6. Oen Commetitive Bddina
- preparation of bidding docunents                          Local authority/Rdgie with
- Invitation to bid                                            external assistance, as
- bid evaluation                                              needed
* contract saard
- submission of bidding docLments, bfd evtluatlv  eport.
and contract to FEC
T. Loan Ac*infstratfin and Disbursement
- processing of withdrawal and reiiibrsmnt requests         FEC
- disbursement
- visit(s) to project site, as needed
- work progress reports
- copletion report
- visit to project site to verify coepletion of works and
delivery of goods and services
B. Loan renn                                                     Local authority/Rigie
^1/28/93



- 82 -
KINGDOM OF MORO=CO
FIRST MUNIGIPAL FINANCE PROJecT
ACTION PLAN FOR THE INSTIUXIONaL IMPROVEMENT OF FnC
?o improve its institutional capabilities, FEC will carry out an
action plan as follow:s
ACTIONS                                           TARGET TIME FRAME
Manaaement and key professionals.  Appoint        (Condition of
four line managers (project evaluation,           effectiveness)
supervision, finance and administration)
and two environmental specialists.
Audit.  Submit the auditor's report on the        September 30, 1993 and
financial statements of 1992 and later            June 30 of each subsequent
years.                                            year.
staffiAn.
Maintain a complement of about 55.                By beginning of 1994.
Maintain a complement of about 65.                By beginning of 1995 and
thereafter.
Kanffioomt fiveems.  Implement improved           By April 1, 1994.
accounting, loan control, reporting, and
data base systems as per recommendations
of USAID-assisted study.
Traini  .  Submit a comprehensive training        By April 1, 1994.
program for Bank review.
Carry out training program, primarily             Throughout project
including visits to comparable financial          execution.
agencies abroad for most professionals.
Technical assistance.  Contract                   To be determined during
consultants to reassess management                mid-term review.
system.
Financial taraets.  Attain financial              Throughout project
targets as agreed (Attachment).                   execution.



- 83 -                                X  N
Attachment
KINGDOM O? HOROCQO
rIRST MUICIPAL ZIHANC  PROJEGT
CoN     =  2t FE&' S TARGETS OFPZERFORMANCR
1.          Tarasts of Performance.  FEC, under the project, commits itself to
attaining the following financial performance targets:
(a)   A rate of return on the average value of total assets of not less
than 0.5 percent in 1994, 0.8 percent in 1995, 1.0 percent in 1996,
and 1.2 in 1997 and thereafter. This rate will be computed as the
quotient of income before income tax of current fiscal year, divided
by the average accounting value of assets at the beginning and end
of the year.
(b)   A ratio of administrative expenses to the average value of total
assets of not more than 0.75 percent. This ratio will be computed
as the quotient of administrative expenses of the fiscal year
divided by the average accounting value of assets at the beginning
and end of th2 year.
(c)   A debt-to-equity ratio of not less than 15 to 1 during 1993-1996,
and 12 to I in 1997 and thereafter. This ratio will be computed as
the quotient of the outstanding balance of total debt contracted at
more than a year at year end, divided by total equity at year end.
For the purpose of these commitments the following paragraphs define
the concepts necessary to compute the related targets of
performance.
2.         Xncome Iefore Incoe Taxes.  Income before income taxes is the
difference between all revenues of a fiscal year and all expenses of a fiscal
year. Revenues include interest lncome and financial and other fees. Expenses
Lnclude flnancial charges, personnel and other expenses, depreciation,
amortLzation of Lntangible assets, provision for loan losses, and taxes excluding
lncome tax.
3.          Total Assets. The accounting value of total assets lncludes cash and
bank account balances, outstanding loan balances, flxed assets, and Lntangible
and miscellaneous assets. The value of total assets Ls net of depreclatlon,
amortLzation, and provlslon for loan losses.
4.          AdaLnLtratLe Ex2nses. AdmLniLtrative expenses lnclude personnel
and other expenses, including deprecLation and taxes other than income taxes.
5.        D2k1. DSit consiLte of liabilitLes origlnally contracted at a perlod
of more than one year, and thus comprises maturitLes of long-term debt at one
year or loes. Debt includes bond Lssues and loans obtained both ln the local and
foreign markets.
6.          IauJtz.  Equity is the difference between the accountLng value of
total assets and the accounting value of total liabilities. Equity, thus, ie net
of provision for loans and any other estimated losses.
c:%J%=flntWisx-h.W
5/11,93



- 84 -
ANNX
Page 1 of 7
XINGDOM OF MOFQCC0
FIRSS MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
FEC'S POLICY STATEMENT
Law 31-90 of December 26, 1991 promulgated by Dahir no. 1-92-5 of
Safar 5, 1413 'August 5, 1992) has established the Fonds d'Equipement Communal
as a government agency charged with financing the local sector. As a government
agency, FEC must operate under policies which are compatible with government
objectives for the eccnomy and that sector. FEC's efficient pursuit of those
objectives is explicitly described in the present Policy Statement.   This
Statement has been approved by FEC's Board of Directors. It can be amended, from
time to time, by a decision of the Board at the request of FEC's Board members
or managing director.
Guidina Principles
FEC's policies have been designed to achieve the following
objectives:
*     induce the local governments, agencies under their charge, and local
public enterprises to undertake priority investments;
*     foster the financial performance of local governments, agencies
under their charge, and local public enterprises;
*     optimize the economic use of scarce resources and help local
governments, agencies under their charge, and local public
enterprises to balance their budgets; and
*    maintain FEC's vlability through sound prudential policies and the
protection of the value of its equity.
Outline
The main aspects covered in this Statement are policies ont (i) FEC's
scope of action; (ii) the uses of funds; (iii) financial policies; (iv) lending
policies; (v) eligibllity criteria for borrowersl (vi) eligibility criteria for
projects; (vii) audit and accounting; and (viii) planning, reporting and control.



- 85 -
ANNELX
Page 2 of 7
A. Scoge of Action
1.          Potential Borrowers.   PEC's main activity will be to finance
financially and economically viable investments of provinces, metropolis
(prefectures), urban communities, rural communities and autonomous local agencies
(RMgies).
2.          Prio&itIeA.   FEC will normally allocate  its resources to the
financing of eligible investments in the order in which projects are approved and
funds become available.
B.  Use of Funds
3.          Character of Proiects.  FEC will finance both revenue-earning and
non-revenue earning projects, the latter being projects for which local
governments must repay the related loans out of tax revenues.
4.          Eliaible-Sectors.  Except as otherwise specifically decided by the
Board, the following sectors will be eligible for FEC financing: (a) water
distribution; (b) power distribution; (c) sanitation facilities; (d) garbage
collection, treatment, and disposal; (e) urban transportation equipment and
facilities; (f) facilities such as slaughterhouses, souks, markets, recreational
areas, and street lighting; (9) local roads and urban and rural civil works; and
(h) studies to plan local development and prepare projects. Eligible type of
investments will be detailed by resolutlon of FEC's Management Committee
conasistent with this framework.
S.          ElLaible _      Lenditureg.  FEC will flnance expenditures on civl' works,
purchases of investment assets, and contracting of servlces procured in
accordance with regulations in force ln the Kingdom.
6.          Acceptable Counternart Fundina.  FEC could accept these eligible
expenditures as counterpart if incurred within the six months preceding the
approval of the loan, provided that such expenditures are consonant with this
Policy Statement.
7.          Exn Lnditures Excluded  from FEC Financina  and  Unacceptable  as
Gounternart Fundina.   FEC will neither finance nor accept as counterpart
expenditures the followings (a) operating expenses; (b) increases in working
capital; and (c) interest during construction.
C.  Financial Policies
[8-          ObiCgglJes.  FEC's financial policies will aim to maLntain FEC's
financial equilibrLum, induce the allocation of resources to the most justifiable
investments, and enhance the financial discipline of borrowers aiming at their
eventual eligibllity for financing from the financial sector.
9.          ForLgan Exchango  Risk.   The Government will assume all losses
incurred by FEC as a result of borrowing in foreign currency, as it does for
financial institutLons.
10.         MLa iLnan] LObiagtALx.U- FEC wills (a) gradually achiove a return
of at least 1.2 percent on the average book value of its total assets; (b)
maintain operatlng costs at no more than 0.75 percent of the average book value



- 86 -
MULI
Page 3 of 7
of its total assets; and (c) decrease the debt-to-equity ratio to not more than
12 in 1997, maximum level which it should maintain thereafter. FEC's Board, on
a case by case basis, will decide whether to retain or distribute earnings as
dividends. For this purpose, FEC's Board will review annually FEC's annual
operating plans and medium-term projections, to analyze FEC's objectives,
performance, and prospects.
11.         Liauidity Policy. FEC is a medium- and long-term financier, and as
such should follow a prudent discipline to avoid excessive short-term borrowing.
FEC will be able to borrow and invest ln the money market either to cover
temporary deficits or to earn interest on surplus cash. Yet, FEC's outstanding
short-term borrowing should not exceed 10 percent equivalent of the total
outstanding medium- and long-term debt.
D. General Lending Pollcies
12.         FEC's Share of InMestment Fnncing.  In geferal, FEC will require
some self-financing on the part of its borrowers. Except in cases justified by
the Credit Committee, FEC will. finance no more than 90 percent of the investment
cost of eligible projects in 1996, 85 percent in 1997, and 80 percent in 1998 and
thereafter.
13.         Interest Rates.  FEC will charge both fixed and variable lnterest
rates on its loans. In general, FEC will apply a higher rate on variable rate
loans; and differential fixed or variable interest rates in accordance with
maturity only.  Fixed interest rates will be equal to the marginal cost of
borrowed funds plus 2.5 percentage points. Varlable interest rates, in turn,
will be equal to the marginal cost of borrowed funds plus 2.0 percentage points.
Variable interest rates will be adjusted once a year on the anniversary of each
loan within the following limits 2 percentage points maximum adjustment per
year) 5 percentage points maximum total adjustment through the life of the loan
for loans at a maturity equal or lower than 7 years; and 7 percentage points
maximum total adjustment through the life of the loan for loans at a maturity
over 7 years. The marginal cost will be computed on the basis of the weighted
average rate on FEC's borrowing for the 12 months preceding the signature of the
loan contract. FEC will revise the difference between the variable and fixed
rate margins to control the interest rate risk.
14.         *Ra=nt.  FEC loans will be repaid in equal annual installments
which will include interest and principal. During the grace period, FEC will
receive annual payments of interest on outstanding loan balances.
15.         Malturit.  FEC will lend at maturities not longer than the design
period of projects nor than the maximum maturities established by type of project
ln accordance with the predominant expenditures. The maximum possible maturity,
however, will be 15 years. The maximum grace period on principal will be 2
years.
16.         Guarantees and Securities. As established by its organic law, the
repayment of loans granted by FEC--princlpal and interest--will constitute for
the borrowing local governments an obligatory expense which the Ministry of the
Interlor wlll include ln thelr budgets. For loans granted to autonomous R6ges,
all of which should be guaranteed, FEC will obtaln lien guarantee from the local
government to which they belong, or other guarantees.



- 87 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
S.   Eligibility Criteria for Borroers
17.         Purpo.  The following conditions aim to foster the institutional
development, efficiency of investments, and financial discipline of local
governmente, theLr agencies, and local public enterprises.
18.         Zliaibility Critea for Local Governments.  FEC only will lend to
local governments that fulfill the following conditions:
(a)   maintain a ratio of total debt service to total ordinary resources
of not more than 0.40.
(b) even if the loan is not for water nor power services, maintain a
ratio of collection of water and power fees to operating costs of
those services (excluding depreciation) of not less than 0.60; and
(c)   have the capability to carry out the project, in accordance with
FC's appraisal.
19.         Comoutino Ratio  for Local Ggvernments.   FEC will require, and
compute the above ratios for the last two consecutive years on which
administrative accounts are available and the following three years, in
accordance with the followings
(a)   ordinary revenues  (for these purposes) will include taxes and
regular subsidies (allocated on the basis of formula for
distributing the VAT), which the local government can freely
allocate to either investments or current expenses; and
(b)   for the year on which administrative accounts are available,
expenses and revenues will be computed with actual data. For the
other yeares (i) water and power revenues will be computed on the
basis of approve... fees together with assumptions on the quantities
sold and yearly collection rates for which administrative accounts
are available; and (ii) other items will be computed taking
inflation and other appropriate factors into account.
20.         Eliaibility Crteria for Moies.  FEC only will lend to R4gies that
fulfill the following minimal conditions:
(a)   maintain a ratio of operating costs (excluding depreciation) to
operating revenues of not more than 0.701 and
(b)  maintain a debt-service coverage ratio of not less than 1.3 (equal
to net income over service on debt contracted at more than a year).
21.         comnuting Ratios for R6aies.  PEC will compute the above ratios for
the current year and the following three years or the period of project
execution,  whichever  is  longer.    Operating  costs  will  include  direct
administrative costs, but exclude interest and depreciation. Revenues will be
only those for servlce provided. The ratio of operating costs to operating
revenues will be based on a reasonable forecast accepted by FEC.  The debt
sevice ratio will be equal to operating revenues less operating costs, over
total debt service. For this ratio, the forecast will includes (a) unchanged
unit sales of the actual year, at the approved tariffs for the forecast year;



- 88 -
ANNxX, I
Page 5 of 7
(b) unchanged unit costs of the actual year, ocaled up for forecast inflation of
the forecast year; and (c) debt service including that on the loan to be
approved.
F. Eliaibilitv Criteria for ProJects
22.         genegal.   FEC  loans  for projects  should meet  the  following
conditions: (a) include investments commensurate with service demand for this
project: (b) the project is economically justified (conditions to be defined by
sector) or meet least cost criteria; (c) the project is financially viable
(conditions to be defined by type of project); (d) the project is institutionally
viable, either because the entity is capable of carrying out the project and
managing operations with the expanded facilities, or because it has made the
management arrangements to do so; (e) the project either will produce no adverse
environmental impact or the borrower will reliably be taking corrective measures
to reduce such impact in an acceptable manner; and (f) the project will minimLze
any resettlement, and require that resettlement costs be commensurate with social
benefits. In cases of resettlement, the project should include an Indication
that persons subject to involuntary resettlement will be adequately compensated.
23.         Soecific Ellaibility Criteria.   Specific eligibility criteria by
sectors are established in the attached Evaluation Criteria.
0.   Operational Norms
24.         General.  A special resolution defining detailed proceduree for
credit approval and disbursement will be established by FEC. This resolution
will specify the main procedures for project appraisal, loan processing, and
project supervision.
25.         Anrraisal Procedures fecessary to EnsUre Pralect Qualitv.  Before
finalizing project appraisal ar.d submitting a loan for approval, FEC will carry
out the following procedures:
(a)   In general, FEC staff or consultants should carry out and file a
report on a visit to the project area mainly to discuss the project
with the local authorities.   Exceptions should be noted in the
project file--stating reasons--and brought to the attention of the
Credit Committee when submitting a loan for approval.
(b)   For large and complex projects, as per management judgement, FEC
will retain independent consultants to review project concept and
design. Their report should be taken into account for adjusting or
optimizing project concept and design, as reviewed and finally-
agreed by FEC management.
26.         Information reauirements. To carry out appraisal, FEC should obtain
and keep information in the project file substantially as follows:
(a)   For  Local  Governmentst  (L)  two  last  consecutive  years  of
administrative accounts, and respective approved budgets; (ii) the
budget of the current year; (iii) forecast budgets through the
project execution period (although ratios for eligibility criteria
are mainly computed with actual data); and (iv) a summary investment
program with a ranking of priorities.



- 89 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 7
(b)   For  t6gieSs (i) financial statements--balance sheet, income and
cash-flow statements--for the last two consecutive years, such
statements at least for the last year to be audited by external
auditors if loans of DH 40 million or more are being considered;
(ii)  latest  financial  statements  for  the  current  year;
(iii) estimated financial statements as of the closing date of the
current year; and (iv) projected financial statements at least until
one year beyond the estimated project execution period.
27.         PV=urom2n&.  FEC will insure that contracts awards are adequately
approved by the responsible authorities.
28.         SuDervisions Vigit to Proiect Site. In general, FEC, either through
its staff or consultants, will visit the project site at least once a year during
the project execution period. Projects costing over DH 10 million will generally
be visited at least once at project inception, once during execution, and once
during the operational phase to support a brief project completion report. These
visits should be documented in the project files, paying particular attention to
the correct use of funds, the reasonable match of physical progress with funds
employed, and the q'tality of the work.
29.         *isbursamen&s. FEC will disburse against documentation and following
procedures detailed in a separate resolution.
30.         susnension of Disbursements.  FEC will discontinue disbursement of
loan funds under the following conditions:
(a)   awards are not approved by the competent authorities; and
(b)   substantial design changes not approved by FEC, loan funds applied
to purposes other than those intended, or the physical advance of
works that does not correspond with the intended use of funds.
B.   Accountino Policieg
31.         Loan Losses. FEC will make provisions for loan losses in accordance
with norms established by the monetary authorities.
I.   Plannina. InforMation and Control
32.         Lona-Term Plans.  By September 30 of each year, FEC's Director will
submit a five-year financial plan to FEC's Board, such plan to in,'tude financial
projections--income statement, balance sheet, and cash-flow statement--for five
years.
33.         oyerating Plan.   By September 30 of each year, FEC's Director will
submit a detailed operating plan for the following year to FEC's Board. Such a
plan will includes (a) financial statements as indicated above; (ai) a budget;
(c) detailed estimates of number and amount of loans by sector, type of borrower,
and region; (d) workload in staff-months, divided by type of professional and
appraisal, supervision, loan administration, and general management; and (e)
detailed staffing and salaries.
34.         Budaet. fl October 30 of each year, PlC's Director will submit the
budget for the following year to FEC's Board and to the Government Commissioner.



- 90 -
ANNX I
Page 7 of 7
35.         nf2X=tln Mruyrements. NEC's Director will submit to FEC' Board
the following informations
(a)   in every meeting, but at least quarterly, a status report of loans
on which these policies call for suspension of disbursements, and
analysis and detail of arrears;
(b)   by the end of each quarter, financial statements for the year and
budget compliance report, as of the preceding quarter;
(c) by March 31 of each year, financial statements and budget compliance
report as of December 31 for the preceding year.
36.         Audits FEC will introduce and maintain an internal auditing system
consistent with normal international practices for a financial agency. FEC's
annual accounts will be audited by independent external auditors under
international accepted accounting principles and auditing standards.
37.         Submission of the Relort of the External Auditors.  By June 30 of
each year, the Director of FEC will submit the report of the external auditors
to the Board and to the Government Commissioner.   It should contain the
followings (a) financial statements, including income statement, balance sheet,
cash-flow statement, and changes in equity; (b) the auditor's opinion on the
financial statements, on the basis of international accounting principles and the
accounting policies here established; (c) the auditors opinion on statements of
execution of projects financed with foreign loans, with details on project
expenditures and use of foreign funds by component and category, for the year and
cumulatively; (d) the auditor's opinion as to whether FEC is complying with
financial and related covenants pertaining to foreign loans; and (e) the
auditor's opinion as to whether FEC is complying and making the borrowers comply
with these policies, noting any observed deviations.
c:%JVaWfn%annm-1 .Sg
5/6/93



- 91 -                               ANNX I
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 11
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FIRST MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
EVALUATION CRITERIA
Project approval should be based on the following general
criteriat
-     projects should correspond to effective service demand as well
as to municipal priorities. Priorities are defined as ($)
subsectors enumerated in the eligibility criteria of FEC's
policy statement; and  (ii)  projects confirmed by  local
authorities  (CLs) following FEC's analysis of investment
programs and advice concerning the impact of debt service on
the leeway for financing alternative investments;
-    environmental  impact  shou-..  be  assessed,  with  detailed
screening for projects related to liquid and solid waste
collection, disposal or treatment, to slaughterhouse, and to
market facilities;
-     in general, the economic rate of return of 10 percent or more
in real terms should be demonstrated for projects generating
quantifiable revenues and with total cost over DH 10 million
(1993 prices);
-     in general, a financial rate of return at minimum 2 percent
above the lending rate charged by FEC should be computed for
projects with total cost over DR 10 million (1993 prices);
These general criteria are developed for each type of investment
described hereunder, as well as specific criteria which may apply.



92 -                              AmNX I
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 11
A.   ULZflZPlQ orN  MT I BIRRI
Al    Blial4blity E't.r4 a   -
(1)     Neighborhoods to be rehabilitated must have more than 50 lots;
(ia)     The density per net hectare  (excluding the right-of-way
reserved for primary infrastructure and community facilities
such as colleges, hospitals, and city halls) must be over 25
lots;
(iLL)     The infrastructure cost should be less than 300 DH/m2 (1993
prices) of saleable land; infrastructure costs, including
physical and price contingencies; moreover, the cost of
studies and services by the implementing agency on behalf of
the CLc, will determine the level of infrastructure to be
executed; and
(iv)     The amount of expenditures to be supported by the CL will be
commensurate with its investment capacity, and the loan amount
commensurate with its lending capacity.
A2.   A suets to be considered for criteria set uo
i)       Physical asegcts
neighborhood    accessibility:    conditions    and
practicability of access, conditions of feeder roads in
various networks;
-     existing  infrastructure  on  sites    internal roads
(development  and  layout),  drainage  and  wastewater
network, receptacle and collection of domestic waste,
water distribution, electricity, and street lighting;
-     in reference to the above, percentage of individual
connectionsl
number- of  housing  units  or  residents  in  the
neighborhood, condition of existing buildings, average
occupation rate per housing unit (population/number of
housing units);
environmental issues: groundwater pollution, assessment
of natural risks (e.g., soil stability, flooding), and
risks due to location (e.g., river banks, highways,
railways, industrial complex);
in  cases  of  displacement,  resettlement  proposals,
including costs;



-93 -                                ANNEX
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 11
(it)     fioiLo-economic as2ects
-     status of land ownership:   percentages of building
owners and renters, landowners with and without titles,
and vacant lots owned by individuals and in the public
domain;
neighborhood expansion: percentages of housing units
existing or under construction, and undeveloped areas;
and
urban  growth:  population  of  squatter  areas/CL
population, and CL growth compared with national urban
growth rate.
s.   URBAN ROASAND DRAINAGE
St.   Pre-screenina of Suboroiects
(i)     Roads rehabilitation must be intended for the most downgraded
roads and those with heavy traffic in need of reinforced
pavement, based on a survey classifying the roads according to
the condition of the pavement and the volume of the traffic;
(ii)      Unpaved roads should be lined with houses on both sides on at
least 20 percent of their length. Justifiable exceptions can
be considered (connection between neighborhoods, access roads,
freeways);
(iii)      The provosed road must be marked on a suitable map of the area
showing whether water distribution and sewerage networks exist
or works will be executed before or during construction of the
road; and
(iv)     A survey of the existing infrastructure, including public mass
transportation and solid waste collection, and on the
necessity for resettlement.
32.  Rliabilitv Criteria
(i)      The economic parameters should includes
-     present volume of average daily traffic by type of
vehicle and traffic estimates following project
implementation;
-     estimates of transport cost savings per unit of present
traffic (passenger and freight);
-     preliminary estimates of other benefits that may accrue
(such as increase in land value), as well as other
social  indicators  such  as  average  distance  to
educational, health, or administrative facilities; and



-94 -                              ANNEX I
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 11
for  projects  costing  over  D!U  10  million,  the
justification of the methodology of project preparation
and analysis.
(ii)     Measures must be taken within the subproject to insure
maintenance according to an appropriate program to be
implemented within agreed action plans clearly assigning
responsibilities to various parties to ensure maintenance,
involving contracts with private companies to implement
maintenance works. Funds for maintenance must be allocated
with regard to particular types of roads in terms of absolute
amounts allotted per km and p.a., or in terms of physical
descriptions of maintenance equipment such as patching units,
road rollers, loaders, motor-graders, trucks, and spreaders.
33.   Prolect Desisn
,$)      Safety measures (e.g., traffic light, signs, equipment for
intersections, pedestrian crossings) must be part of the
design;
(ii)     Drainage systems must be included in the study;
(iii)      Road alignment must minimize the need for resettlement by
avoiding locations with existing housing units; and
(iv)     Cost estimates must be based on unit prices obtained from
recent contracts.
Co * SWNRA3 AND WAST3WAT23R DISPOSAL
cl   Pre-screenilnc of suborolocts
(i)      The sewerage subproject must cover civil works outside the
purview of the Rdgies;
(ii)     The condition of the existing sewerage facilities, estimated
costs per capita and total water consumption, number of water
and sewerage connections in previous years, and quality of
services must be taken into account In the studies;
(iii)      An environmental  impact study must  stress treatment or
recycling before disposal. No direct disposal into rivers or
the sea must be allowed if the effluent does not meet the
minimum required standards (DBOS, DCO, ME8, nitrate);
therefore, any sewerage subproject must include a study on
wastewater disposal.
(iv)      The proposed networ' must be marked on a suitable map of the
area, showing that water distribution either exists or will be
undertaken by the Pagie at the same time; and
(v)      Any new sewer connections must constitute a well-organized
network linked to an existinq network, or a semi-autonomous or
a technically affordable wastewater disposal system.



-95-                                ANX I
Attachment 1
Pate 5 of 11
C2.   5ljgibil gty Criterj&
{i)      For a treatment plant costing over DH 10 million  (1993
prices), a financial analysis must be included, taking into
account the marginal cost of sewerage expressed as a cost per
cubic meter of liquid waste to be treated or recycled,
including the cost of operations and maintenance;
(Li)      To forecast future water consumption, numbers of water and
sewerage connections over a 10-year period and the percentage
of population served per house connection must be assessed;
(iii)      Satisfactory  arrangements  must  be  made  to  ensure  good
execution, project supervision, and an efficient operations
and maintenance system, including measures to be taken (e.g.,
involvement of the private sector or other agencies,
recruitment and training of technical staff); and
(lv)      The economic rate of return must include an environmental
assessment and social indicators, such as health improvement.
C3.   Proiect Desiam
(i)      Engineering standards must be adapted to the proposed system,
and feasible alternatives for providing the project area with
sewerage and ways of improving and expanding the existing
sewerage network must be discussed; and
(ii)      Cost  estimates  and  economic  comparison  of  selected
alternatives must support the selection of the proposed
scheme, and detailed cost estimates and implementation
schedule must be prepared.
D.    SOLID WAS!T  COLLBCTION AND DISP0SAL
Dl. Pre-screenian of subprolects
(i)      Any subproject involving solid waste collection (including the
purchase of new equipment) should be supported by a
comprehensive survey on garbage containers, transfer locations
and solid waste disposal, and a study for improving solid
waste management (e.g., recycling, treatment);
(ii)      The proposed site for solid waste disposal at an existing
public sanitary landfill to be improved, or at a new site to
be developed, or a recycling plant to be built should be
marked on a suitable map of the area;
(iii)      The status of the existing fleet of dump trucks must be
assessed, taking into account its operating and maintenance
scheme, and the possibility to shift from a public-owned and
-operated system to private sector management;



- 96 -
Attachment 1
Page 6 of 11
(iv)     The capacity of solid waste disposal must be related to the
volume collected, the nature and quality of household refuse,
or other sources (e.g., industry, tourism, construction); and
(v)     An environmental impact study and measures taken to alleviate
health hazards must include a diagnosis of the weaknesses and
requirements of the existing sanitary landfill and address the
risks of air and water pollution.
D2.    liaibilltv Criteria
{i)     A firancial analysis must be included, taking into account the
marginal coat of effluents to be treated or re-used, including
the cost of operation and maintenance;
(iL)     The economic analysis must assess the environmental impact and
social indicators such as health improvement;
(iii)      Cost recovery procedures must be explained;
(iv)      In forecasts of future volumes of solid waste to be treated,
reuse over a 10-year period must be related to the capacity of
solid waste disposal; and
(v)     Satisfactory  arrangements  under  the  same  conditions  as
detailed above para. C2(iii).
D3.   Protect Desian
(i)     Engineering standards must be adapted to the proposed system
and feasible alternatives discussed (e.g., location of
landfills, recycling of refuse);
(Li)     The environmental impact and measures to alleviate health
hazards must be defined and assessed according to [Bank)
guidelines; ani
(iii)      cost estimates for the selected alternatives involving, in
particular, the private sector and economic comparison of
these alternatives must lead to the selection of the proposed
subproject.
3o *   rTRUM  L!GETIXG. OPEE SPACES (OARDENS). AND COMMUNITY FACILITZXS
31.  Stret LLahtina
Since street lighting on the existing urban road network is a
priority for socurity reasons, subproject approval may be obtained without
further justification.
The project design must include the following informations
(i}      a description of the existing distribution system and the
percentage of population served, or of streets with lights;



-97-                               am  I
Attachment 1
Page 7 of 11
(it)     the proposed network must be marked on suitable map of the
area;
(iii)      cost estimates must be based on unit prices obtained from
recent contracts and must include the equipment needs of the
electrical substation, including spare parts for operations
and maintenance; and
(iv)     the Rdgie or the national electricity production company (ONE)
must agree on the electrical diagram and on the type and
quality of equipment to be included in the substation. If
necessary, the R6gie, ONR, or a private enterprise will be in
charge of implementing the works in the substation, and
provide cost estimates for the equipment.
Moreover, the report must define measures taken or to be taken to
ensure proper maintenance, preferably by contracting a private company.
32 *  Green and Recreational Areas
The cost of these subprojects will usually be under DR 5 million
(1993 prices) and therefore they have to be appraised more rapidly.
a)    Pre-fcreenina of Subnroiects
Si)     the proposed site must be marked on a suitable map of the
area, showing that the facility is accessible by foot or
public transportation; and
(ii)     the report must give the status of the existing facilities by
type, their numbers, and their locations in the area.
b)    syubroiect Desian
Mi)     An engineering study must provide details on the proposed
infrastructure; and
(ii)      Subproject cost estimates must be based on unit prices used in
recent contracts.
c)   I3lk3eri3t Justlfication
(i)     CLs must justify the subproject based on unsatisfied social
and sanitary criteria;
(il)      The proposed subproject must represent the least-cost solution
to satisfying the needs; and
(iii)      The means to operate and maintain the infrastructure with
private sector involvement must be assessed, as needed.



98 -
Attachment 1
Page 8 of 11
d)    Cost Recovry
CLs neei to recover most subproject cots, including operations and
maintenance, from users through admission fees or food and beverage concessiors.
F.   WMMR MUPPL ANM DISTRIBUTION
F`I*  Subroo ects imolemented by the CL without anv R6aie involvnep_t
These subprojeot costs are usually under DH 8 million (1993 prices)
and therefore, have to be appraised more rapidly.
a)    Pre-Screening of subori ect
{i)      a description of the existing water supply and distribution
network, the percentage of population served, reservoir
capacity, water resources (e.g., spring water, bulk water
produced by the national water production company (ONEP),
level of maintenance, and quality of services (frequency of
interruption), and the water itself;
(ii)      a brief description of the sewerage system and the quality of
individual sewer systems, percentage of the population with
water but no sewerage connections and vice-versa; and
(iii)     the proposed network and existing water and sewerage networks
as well, must be marked on a suitable map of the area.
b)    Pro4-at Dsoion - See Para. E2 (b)
c)    Prolect Jutification
(i}      The CL must justify the subproject representing the most
economical solution to satisfying the needs by comparing it
with alternate solutions; and
(ii)     The means to operate and maintain the infrastructure with
involvement of the private sector must be assessed.
'{)    Coat Reaoverv
operations and maintenance costs or an amount equivalent to the
associated loan amortization, whichever is higher, must be recovered from users.
12.   suborolects iz _leoMnted by R6aies
in addition to the above description Chapter Fl, the following
documents must be included ins



- 99 -                              ANNEX I
Attachment I
Page 9 of 11
a)    PE22gaoginue of Subopisects
A master plan ensuring sufficient supply and adequate distribution
of potable water over the next ten years.
b)    Pggjaft DuiLan
The detailed study should includet  the map of the distribution
network, flow calculations, and project cost estimates including, inter alia, all
equipment, land, and electricity supply.
d)    Cost Rbcoverv
Project generated revenues should cover operations and maintenance
costs plus loan amortization; moreover, R6qie cash flow should cover at least 20
percent of its annual investment programs.
0)    Financial Iualvs s
(I)     Financial  projections  of  the  costs  of  operations  and
maintenance and of revenues from water sales and connection
fees must cover a ten-year period; these projections must be
global for the Regie and broken down for the subproject by
additional income and costs generated by the subproject;
(ii)      The marginal cost of water relative to the subproject and the
discounted subproject cost per addltional customer must be
computed;
(iii)     A ten-year projection of resources and expenditures on a
global basis for the R6gie must be made; and
(iv)     Estimate of the project's economic rate of return must be over
10 percent and financial rate of return over 2 percent above
FEC lending rate.
a.   mACzR.Cz
Subprojects related to the electricity network are implemented by the
R6gies; therefore, the procedures should be identical to what has been described
above in Chapter F2.
B.    MaUMMDlOA"MZ         FACILZTZin
RI.  Pre--scre"Lna of -subiroects
(i)      The sixe and evaluation of subprojects must be assessed on the
basis of spreadsheet models PEC has developed previously for
each type of revenue-generating facility;
(it)      Depending on the ttpe of subproject, the analysis of annual
demand over a period of 10 years must be based on data from
past and future trends in terms of population served by the
subproject, and consumption and production volume;



- 100 -                                 I
Attachment 1
Page 10 of 11
(iii)      When  pertinent,  distribution  of  projected  demand  aaong
existing facilities of the same type and the same
infrastructure proposed by the subproject must be envisaged as
an alternate solution;
(iv)      Financial analysis of the subproject, including financial
fees, projected operating and maintenance costs (including
personnel), and subproject revenues over a period of 10 years
must be assessed;
(v)      The study of an alternate proposal for renting, leasing, or
selling the facility to the private sector must be analyzed in
accordance with the characteristics and structure of the
prices resulting from competitive bidding and shovld ensure a
100 percent recovery rate;
(vi)      The impact evaluation of the subproject direct effects on the
CL'8 financial situation (e.g., debt service, management,
operating and maintenance costs not covered by the current
budget) as well as indirect effects (e.g., road maintenance
cost, garbage collection cost) must be assessed;
(vii)      An estimated subproject implementation schedule must be drawn
up, showing whether the subproject will be implemented in one
or several phases; and
(viii)      A comprehensive environmental study must be conducted, taking
into account not only the impact of the facility on the
environment, but the impact of the environment on the facility
as well.
B2.   Zliaybilitv Criteria
(i)      Subproject financial and economic rates of return must be part
of the assessment made at the pre-screening phase of the study
(see above para H1(i));
(ii)      Identification  of  the  unit/agency  and  the  number  and
qualification of technicians required for the subproject's
construction phase and for project management and maintenance;
priority must be given to private sector involvement;
(iii)      For all subprojects, annual revenues (leasing, rental, or user
fees) must be sufficient to cover:   all annual operating
expenditures   (including  personnel,   energy   and  water
consumption, and equipment and materials), maintenance costs,
and either subproject depreciation expenses or amortization of
the subloan, whichever is higher, beginning with the startup
of operations; and
(iv)      For revenue-generating facilities, improving the environment
such as existing slaughterhouses, "souks," and markets, the
coverage must be limited to 50 percent of the above costs.



- 101 -UIEx
Attachment 1
Page 11 of 11
US    P"ice   oui
(i)      A general description of the area, local economic activities,
and social, geographic, and demographic feal..res must be part
of the project design, as well as a descriptson of the nature
of the project, its location, and its objectives within the
framework of communal infrastructure development;
(ii)      A detailed engineering study must be carried out and feasible
alternatives discussed as evidence that the proposed
subproject represents the least-cost solution to satisfying to
the needs; and
(iii)      Cost  estimates  for  selected  alternatives  and  economic
comparison of these alternatives must result in selection of
the proposed subproject.
Pevenue-gene.ating facilities involve construction or imjrovement of
slaughterhouses, cold storage facilitieo, wholesale markets, commer-ial centers,
local markets and osouks", bus terminals, caf6s, public ovens, public steam
bathe, swimming pool., and tourist facilities.



- 102 -                              AMUIIEX
Attact. ent 2
KINGDOM OF XOROCCO
FIRST MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
POLICIES FOR LOAN iISS PROVISIONING
The Borrower shall apply the following interim policies for loan
lose provisioning
Irrespc-itive of guarantees, legal requirements for repayment, and
management or expert judgement, FEC will charge to operations and credit to a
reserve (to be deduced of the value of assets) the following:
(a)   all interest accrued or to be accrued on loans which have been
unpaid for one annual installment}
(b)   V" percent of loan balances which have been unpaid for one annual
installment;
(c)   70 percent of loan balance. which have been unpaid for the last
two annual installments; and
(d)   100 percent of loan balances which have been unpaid for the last
three annual installments.
c:\J\munfint\annex-1a.en
5/6/93



- 103 -                         Page   oS 2
NS? MJUNICL            PT
NOTS TO FECII Si PNOTLATIZNENT
1.       The financial statements of 1989, 1990, ad 1991 have been audited.
For 1S92, the inc=m and balance sheets are unaudited; the cash-flow statement
is a project team estimate on the basis of ame information and the necessary
consiatency with the other financial statements.   The projeoted financial
statements of 1993-2000 are based on the assumptions specified below.
2.        lnflation and xoxhange rate. The projections assume an average annual
inflation in the 4 percent - 6 percent range, and the average Dirham-US Dollar
exchange rate increasing frcm 8.5 in 1993 to 10.0 in the year 2000.
3.        Intorozt. Projected, assuming interest rates around 14.S percent on
loans.
4.        Financial fe2s.  Projected, assuming the historica.% six percent of
interest. It includes fees charged to the Government on account of the Bank-
assisted rural power project, which will top DR 12 mUllion annually.
S.       Financial chArXes. Projected, assuming a 12-percent average cost of
resources.
6.        Personne. Projected, assuming that during the project period staff
level increases over S0 percent and average salary increanes akout 30 percent in
real ters.
7.        other xhmnses. Projected, assuming it maintains about the same ratio
to personnel expenses.
S.       Deoreciation and other.  A minor item assuming that FEC charges to
operations studies and the purchase of small equipment. Xt includes depreciation
on NZC'. building since 1994.
9.        Provision for loan loses.  Include an estimate for losses on loans
to R4gies in 1992 and recovery of such losses in 19931 projected to be some
0.12S-0.2S of one percent On loan balances thereafter
10.       Recovery of loans. Projected on the basis of the historical nine-year
average term of JNC's loans.
11.       Bank loan to FEC.  FIC Bank loan is US$100 million at an average
interest rate of 12 percent with 20-year maturity, which includes five years of
grace on principal.
12.       other forejlM loans. Several, at interest rate of about 11 percent.
13.       Bonds in the obligatorv market.  Mostly bonds with full Government
guarantee placed through Coo with insurance companies and the Government



-104MUJ
Page 2 of 2
retirement funds, in accordance with Government directives, to invest slgnificant
resources in governmuent-guaranteed obligations.
14.       Diaburmentfs. Beat possible estimate until 1994; projected to grow
in tandem with inflation plus GDP growth (assumed to be 4 percent pa..)
thereafter.
15.       Repayment of debt.  Projected in accordance with known repayment
schedules and on the assumption that new bonds are lssued with a 10-year average
maturity.
16.       Accuisition of aasets.  includes construction of FEC'a headquarters
building in 1992 and 1993.
17.       Chan=e in Cash/Workina capital. Projected cash flows are balanced to
change in cash; historical to change in working capital, which includes cash.
18.       other, assets.  Includes mainly interest accrued.  It is assumed to
remain stable over the projection period.
Liabilities
19.       Advances and others.  Includes short-term financing (CDG until 1992)
and accrued interest payable.
indicators of financial oerformance
20.       Return on assets.  Equal to income before taxes divided by average
total assets.
21.       Return on eauity.  Equal to net income divided by average equity.
22.       Income from loans.  Equal to interest income from loans divided by
loans outstanding.
23.       Interest ex2ense on liabilities.   Equal to interest expense on
liabilities divided by average liabilities.
24.       Net marain on loans outstanding.  Equal to income from loans less
interest expense on liabilities, divided by average total loans.
25.       Administrative costs ratio.  Equal to total administrative expenses
divided by average assets. Administrative expenses represent personnel and other
expenses, including depreciation but excluding provisions for loan losses and
income taxes.
26.       Personnel costs ratio.  Equal to personnel costs divided by a,erage
asses.@.
27.       Debt service ratio.  Equal to cash from operations plus recovery of
loans, divided by total payments of principal on debt.
28.        ank loan share.  Equal to Bank-loan balance at year end divided by
total assets at year end.
29.       Debt to ecuitv ratio. Egqual to the sum of loans and bonds outstanding
at year end divided by equity at year end.



WDOMOPOROOO
PH-
_R~~~~~~~~~~ Is?  197                                       gm   ZonS6 42z1  on8   m                       t    8    o
1966    1990    1961    11t  4   1t    20  94    9       19         37      42  41           S
Tdalt                                         tI14    206      250     s06     37      43 m             622     713     810     Ols   1.
Flelhawroe                                     1O0      Igo     224     290     364      9      43      S 6t     681     646     717     792
Pow"                                             3       4                5       8      it2     14      16       18      20      22      2S                  I
cOlwapene                                        2       3        1       2       S       9      11      12      13       16      17      1 
DewoshUw mm nadlmzan                             2      tO        3       a       1       1       1       2        2       2       2       2                  
Pradonforloanb_                                  0       0       4       76 9             4       6      11       12      14       8       a
Tdld expwe                                    167     207     247    376       276     419     464     85      62      9        76      646 
kromsebe.b.iea                                   46       I       a      (SO)    103     34       62      66      87     113     147      176
!nag bNwx                                        a        0       0       0       2       14     21       go     aS       46      69      71
Not bwxm_                                        (14      I       3             101      go       31   as         62      68      as      1O0
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
Ct
I
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



KNDOMOFMOOCOO
M W________________RNE
8EMe NTAAB OF FUNDt
1i9o    u9.0   ur        1iw2    iss    usw      i9si     imSI    lr    t89        isis    2000
Not ome                                                   1       s      (6      101      20   St          3o      62      a        88     10
NWn-cashdwg.ea NW d.ain rodstemets               *      10       7       7s     p)    (10)    (12)    (13)    (14)    (16)    (16)
SBueomMP atBon-                                 (1)     II       10      I I      8       10      1o      26       so      5       72      66
AS.onc.YdIIOUS                 t171                     202     236      2oo     8s      360      417     475    Wa        an      674     7m1
OIabe.mmntso(ks*pr*otIasn                         0       0       0        0       0      l#3    289      2@      104       39       0       0                    1
Oliiwmsmantson __lmrloum                         12      76       0        8      76      Be       40     s0      200     310      476     625
Bond bang                                       S9u     34      m        44      m       S2oo     47      525     610              60      675
Cartdbuans                                        0       0       0        0      76       0        0       0      so       0        0       0
Tdl  oeu                                       676     on2      88      013   1.130   1.1t2   12S9   t1S#   1t,469    6S5   t1*71    2ss
_wiI   ft                                       365    60       61       U14    m60      860      028   t1,O4   1.114   1222   1.40   lAS
PApa    todd6d.                                  70     101      1t2     172     40      2a       S18     887     869     432      SIG     5
tqisU 4ul mdasdts                                 0       5       1       12      1S       1        1       I       I       1        I       I
Ttld                                           497     36       758       6    1.128   1.147   1.242   1.y2   IA        1,6     1,6s     tSA
Chmg.In audIkv      apt                         11I       74      79      (        7        4       (3     11       tS     (10)    It        0)
ft
,                                           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
g
g I



019too  0u    A        t    OK            st    0            #W   9l          0                tW"~*1Oe
art 'wt 8 e Vrg ov                  We 9          an    on    ottl   ot 0wt                         Z$P o1
-      gAZm   on9           an. Z    s9 .8;    go               at St ii  _s iwsr Au
Sir    o      90. Z         ssst   WV   oc        0e8   OeZ   em    1On t      ur                              "rt  _4m.
wsr   emi    -       em      s    Ott    on    em        em    ro      ui    iii                                   "uM.pIO
ii,   Sa      a      ISO           a aL   a      0       0      0      9      0                               ia- _mp4i
1Z1  39    9On    OW9 1 WI  i1t    35    "1V5   lens    e1    31rt  15t                                              sue"
*      0fr     1 a   Be     5;    St      St      I      9      o0     9      t                                        Is
Z    Sset    Mt51   an    se91      Mt11    Mt   36t   not   il    101   0W



-~PH
RAvo.nasnb)                                    -0.1     0.1      .      -A       82      0       12      IA       1s      10       24
RuL )                                          -1.1     00        7   4         7A.4    .0    12.        18.     14.     1.1    10.7    1"
am.m    m     (                                11.5    180    1.I    1.2    1.S    18A4    I"            14.1    14.4    14*    14.7    14*
hI     q aps  slib      )                      118     11.8    10.4    106    11.5    11tA      113    11.       11      11A    t11      11
Natmuigb.nlb      )                             0.      0.7      1.7     1t     t1       20      2I4     Le0  S2           0              8
AdMkidvaavo                                     04 0A            0.     0*       0.4     OA      OA      0.      OA       OA      0.0    0 
PM am lsfa                                      0*     0el       0.      0l      02      0.      08      OA      08       0.      0.     0a
D     dNto .*uOR'p _U4                          2.4     2.0      t.     1t       0.7     12      IA      1is      10      1s      IA      1
* kutm dw(                                      0A      0*.0    o0      0o       0.0     4*     10.7    15*      16.     10    10*        8.7
D dbtlobqly.                                   10.4    10.4    20A.4    74    14.1   1tB        18&      14D    12*      11.6    10s     10t.
,lgatmem hayr                                                                   728      72      604     5        64     US    1126    1200
wautd    medham-   ln-tug it                                                  M042    S67    4012    468       O8      60    0106    62
Canmbnuitsa~ kI kmlm(UswmUaas 25                                                         s0      1I
B    resuUSbmUn)                                                                 0      22      St       a1      tt       4       0       0 a
T.ImtFOdlubavwmsrmts(UWatEIan)                   48      02      is      so      76      07      102     100     I       120      136     140 t
hUiSId .. .uu.J buIdin(USI.IfIOI_)                                                                                6       6f      6      10                  1!



- 109 -
ANNEX K
KINGD2M OF MOROCCO
FIRET MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJE9T
DETAILS OF PROJECT COSTS
(US$ miliHon)
LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL       %    FORIEIGN
COSTS
PMA=
Bank-financed local projects
Infastructure                   109.6    63.4   173.0    94.8    36.1
Studtes and desIgn                2.0      0.6      2.5     1.4    20.0
Institutional development         0.5      0.5      1.0     0.6    50.0
Subtotal              112.1    64.4    176.       96.8    36.5
PART B
Institutional Improvement o. FEC
Eupment                           0.0      0.4      0.4     0.2    100.0
Technical assIstance              0.0      0.2      0.2      0.1    100.0
Training                          0.0      0.2      0.2      0.1    100.0
Subtotal                0.0      0.8      0.8      0.4    100.0
PART C
Loca sector training
EquIpment                         0.3      0.3      0.6      0.3    50.0
Consultats                         1       0.2      0.3      0.2    66.7
Trainer fee                       0.5      0.2      0.7      0.3    286
Eternal courses & study tours     0.0      0.3      0.3      0.2    100.0
Didacti materas                   0.2      0.2      0.4      0.3    50.0
Subtot                  1.1      1.2      2.3      1.3    52.2
Improvement of centra managoement
of the local sector
Computer equlpt, materals & softwar  0.3   0.7      1.0      0.6    70.0
Management systems study          0.5      0.7      1.2     0.6    5&3
Local finance study               0.1      0.1      0.2     0.1    50.0
Study tours for Mn. Interior & Financ  0.0  0.3     0.3      0.2   100.0
Subtotal                0.9      1.8      2.7      1.5    67.0
TOTAL                 114.1     68.2   182.3   100.0    37.4
c1jtmunfInlPanneK-wk*1
5/11193



- 110 -
ANNEXL
FIRST MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT 9CH0ULE
QUARTEFLY
BANK FISCAL YEAR        DISBURSEMENT8  CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
AND QUARTER ENDING        (US$ mlillon)    USS mlnion   % OF TOTAL
FY94
Mar/31194                          4.0          4.0             6.0
Jun/30/94                          4.0          8o             10.0
FY95
Sep/30/94                          7.0         15.0            17.0
Dec/31/94                          7.0         22.0            24.0
Mar/31/95                           8o         30.0            32.0
Jun/3095                           9.0         39.0            40.0
FY96
Sep/309                            8o          47.0            48.0
Dec/31/95                          8o          55.0            56.0
Mar/31/96                          ao          63.0            64.0
Jun/30/96                           9.0        72.0            72.0
FY97
SOP/39                             8o          8o              80.0
Dec/31/96                          7.0         87.0            87.0
Mar/31197                          4.0         91.0            91.0
Jun/30/97                          4.0         98.             94.0
FY98
Sep/30/97                          20          97.0            96.0
DecJ31/97                          2.0         99.0            98.0
Mar31/98                           2.0        101.0            99.0
Jun/3098                           2.0        103.0            99.5
FY99
Sep/30/98                           1.0       104.0           100.0
c V%munflnhannex-I
5/6/93



ANNEX M
KINGDOM OW MORFCCO
FIRST MUNICIPAL FINANCE PRJECT
ALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS
AMOUNT OF               PERCENTAGE
LOAN                      OF
ALLOCATION             EXPENDITURES
CATEGORY                           (US equly.)           TO BE FINANCED
L LOAN T0 FEC
1. Subloans                              98.2            70%   of amounts paid by the borrower
to a beneficlary
I Goods                                   04             100%   of foreign expenditures,
100%   of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and
80%   of local expenditures
for other items procured locally.
a. ConsulaW servces and training          0.4            100%
4. Unalocated                             1.0
Sbtot                        100.0
I. LOAN TO THE GOVERNMENT
1. Goods                                  1.5           100    of foreion expenditures,
100%   of local expendiures
(ex-factory cost), and
80%   of local expenditures
for other items procured locally.
2. Consultant senrces and training        1.5             80%   of all expenditures
3. Unallocated                            1.0
Subtotal                      4.0
TOTAL                       104.0
c1jAmunfiniUannex-m.mk1
W9l



- 112 -
ANNEX N
Page 1 of 2
INGDOM OF MOROCC0
FIRST MUNICIPAL FINREM PROJECT
MONITORING SYSTEM
1.        This annex describes how FEC and the Government wlll monitor and keep
the Bank informed of project developments (Attachment 4 includes a staff-weeks
supervision budget).
2.        Criteria for project success include the following: (a) maintenance and
further upgrading of the reform in the distribution of the local share of the VAT
among local governments; (b) compliance with lending criteria in the FEC's Policy
Statement, compliance which should be similar for Bank-assisted, and otbhr FEC-
financed subprojects; (c) achievement of FEC's loan targets, which grow
approximately with inflation and GDP; (d) achievement of loan commitment and
disbursement targets; and (e) substantial compliance with covenants and meeting
of monitoring indicators by FEC and the Government.
A.  Reauirements for FEC
3.  FC's Finances and  roiect Execution.  To monitor FEC's financial and
project execution performance, FEC will submit to the Bank the following
documentation by February 28 and August 31 of each year:
(a) Unaudited financial statements as of December 31 of the preceding year
and as of June 30 of the current year, which should be in the format
reviewed  by  FEC's management and  should  include  the  listings
supporting such statements.
(b) Detail of subloans approved by FEC to be financed by the Bank for the
six months ending December 31 of the preceding year and June 30 of the
current year, which should include: (i) the subloan reference code;
(ii) name of the sub-borrower; (iii) economic sector; (iv) amount of
expected financing with Bank loan funds; (v) expected subproject cost;
(vi) amount to be financed by FEC's own funds; and (vii) amount to be
financed by sub-borrower's own funds.
(c) Status report of subloans financed by the project, which should
include the following detailss (i) subloan reference code; (ii) name
of the sub-borrower; (iii) economic sector; (iv) accumulated amount of
Bank funds used in the subproject; (v) accumulated 7EC disbursements
to date; (vi) total project cost incurred to date; and (vii) estimated
total subproject cost.
4.        FEC's Audited Renorts.  By June 30 each year, FEC will submit to the
Bank audited financial statements, including the following:
(a) Basic financial statements of FEC, income, cash flow, changes in
government equity and balance shoet, with statement of accounting
policies, notes, and additional information as appropriate.



- 113 -
ANNEX
Page 2 of 2
(b) Auditor's opinion as to whether the financial statements present
fairly the results of operations and financial position of FEC, on the
basis of international accounting principles consistently applied,
plus dispositions of FEC's General Policy Statement on the calculation
of loan losses.
(c) Statement of project execution and related opinion of the auditors,
which should provide for the current year and accumulated the amounts
by project component/loan category on the followings (i) incurred
subproj-.ct cost; (ii) FEC disbursements; and (iLL) use of Bank funds
for subproject or FEC expenditures.
(d) Auditor's opinion as to whether payments for project expenditures on
the basis of statements of expenditure are in accordance with the loan
agreement.
(e) Auditor's opinion as to FBC' s compliance with financial covenants and
its own General Policy Statement.
(f) Auditor's letter of recommendations for improving the control and
efficiency of FEC's operations.
5.        Financial Proiections. By September 30 of each year, FEC will submit
its monitoring indicators (Attachment 1) and financial projections for the
current and the next four years in the format of the Bank staff appraisal report.
This information will be used to review FSC's performance jointly by FEC, the
government and the Bank, normally in October of each year.
B.  Recuirements for the government
6.       Statement of  eenues and -Upend"tr&s gf the Local Sector. By April
30 of each year, the Government will submit to the Bank a combined report on
revenues and expenditures for the local governments, including budget and actual
figures for the preceding year. The report should identify any surpluses or
credits outstanding or deficits as well as the distribution of the local share
of the VAT among local governments (including all the information in Attachments
2 and 3).
7.        By September 30 of each year, the Government will submit to the Bank
a combined estimate of local government revenues and expenditures for the current
year, as well as those forecast for the coming three years (including all the
information in Attachments 2 and 3).
cs\j\munfini\annex-n.eng
5/9/93



OW*          OPPRORMA
Igoe    t s     l1st    lsot    Igo      1904    1666   t180 1M697    IMiS                 2000
PiuAU _n ana tg%)                               -0.1     0.1     0.      -2       8       0.       1.2      A      1        1.      2.2     2.4
Rsbamomequdy(b)                                 -1.1     0A0      27   -a"       76.4     0       12.     18a.    14.      15.1    17    16
1m.a1_ *lOw)                                   11.0    120    II    1            2.8    18.4    18        14.1    14.4    14A     14.7    14A
h,SsuaKpnp_oenU.bh s(9A)                        118    11a    1OA        10.     116    11A       11.5    11      11.      11.6 1110    11.0
Nvt4  oinnhRbm()                                 0*      0J      1.7      1.0     1.8     La       24      2o              8.       22      8
dimkgdl0.4                                              OJ      o 0.4  .  0.3  0.  G.4   0A       0.0     OA      0.0     0A       0.0    00
ftnnedootaflo                                    0.2     0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2     oa      0o       OA      0*      0.8      0.8     0.8
Do lwm_t  owrAmprat                              2A      2*       1*      1.0     0.7     1.2      IA      1.5     1        1.5  IA         1.5
Sa*hm da.(I)                                     00      0       0.0      0.0     0.0     4.      10.7    1.      15"      13      10.0     6.7
DsbtIomeuliot IGA                                       ISA      GA      74    14.1    16O        15.0    14      12.0    110    10*    10.0
Saiswbmedat monaGM a Yr                                                           728     782     804     668      654     9      1125    1200
tundln modwn-wA hWg4S  debt                                                      S042     57    4012    463       63      6690    6t16     6?
amkmltant       u  blon US mnon)                                                    S      s60     18
Sai* loan dlsburs.ments(U6*mUflm$ )                                                 0      22      92       3          11    4       0        0            Wt
Totd  FED    C_wmndll (US$ o0m)                  48       62      78      66       76      07     t02    1tO       116     126     1SO      146
bd of Nn4u        ed Sand OU  mIllon)                                                                                6       5   6           10



- 115 -
Attachment 2
FORECAST OF FLOW OF FUNDS OF THE LOA  SECTOR
(DU billionj US$1 D DH 8.5)
FORECAST
CONCIPTS                     1993         1994         1995
Local taxes and others*                         4.3          4.8          S.3
VAT*                                            4-9          5-3          5-9
Loans                                           0.7          0.9         0.9
Total resources - Total expenditures            9.9         11.0        12.1
a ntures
Current expenditures                            4.8          5.1          5.3
Debt service                                    0.7          0.7         0.8
Investments                                     3.4          4.2          5.0
VAT recovery by the Central Government          1.0          1.0          1.0
* Estlasted to grow In tandm with inflttion and GDP grorth.
Source: Sank estmates based on unofficial preliminary budgets prepared by the
Directorato of local financ in NOF.



- 116 -
Attachment 3
,PIR  MUNIcIPL FANE PROz.YC
fixY   TO DI8TRH Y           L ARE OF TH1 va
(DU Bilions)
i
Amounts distributed among
local ;overnments
1994          1995
Allocation to phase out oprating subsidies               0.8            0.4
Allocation equally distributed among local               -              -
governmentsl
Allocation distributed on a per capita basis,            19             2.5
corrected for social equity
Allocation distributed in accordance with                0 7            0.9
fiscal effort
Allocation distributed among provincial                  0.2            0.2
capitals
Allocation distributed on a discretionary basis          0.7            0.9
Recovery of VAT by the Central Covernment                1 0            1 0
Total Local Share of the VAT                             5.3            5.9
J/  To Stan n 199I  aer eptf s dis r4 fully phose out.



- 117 -
AU N
Attachment 4
PtSBT mpGM 01t mOROCC
cazzuDu                                                STAFF-       STAFF
STAFF SPECIATY                  MEim1      MSSION2
1993       iancal sconomist                                6            1
Municipal  nginr                                4            1
1994      Financial Econmist                              10            2
Uicipal  nginele                                6            2
Ztrgov.u fntl Fnance Economist                  4            1
1995      Flnancial Economist                              a            2
municipal sagineer                              6            2
1996      Flnancial Economit                              10           2
Municipal Egineer                               2            2
intervrnm Intl  iace Economist                  6            1
Mnicipal Fnianc  SpecialiLt                     5            2
Municipal Management/Training Speciaist         S            2
1997      Financial Econoit                                a           2
municipal Engineer                              6            2
1998       inancial sconomist                              8            2
municipal Enginer                               6            2
1999      Financial tconomist                              6            1
cMniipl Enine                                   4            1
TOTAL                                         110           30
Il  IflSLui oWuIu_t
t    Iin@Iit,w off ee ir



- 118 -                              AgNEX
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FIRST MUNICIPAL FIMANCE PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PRCJECT FILE
A. Government of the Kinadom of Morocco
1.        Note au sujet des crit6res de r6partition de la part des collectivitf 
locales dans le produit de la TVA. Staff of the Directorate of Local
Finance, General Directorate of Local Governments, Ministry of the
Interior, October 21, 1992.
2.        La composante de formation continue du personnel des collectivit4s
locales. Directorate of Training. Ministry of the Interior. January
1992.
3.        R6vision du d6coupage communal g6n6ral.  General Directorate of Local
Governments. Ministry of the Interior. May 1989.
4.        Programme  deassistance  technique.    Division  of  Local  Finance,
Directorate of the Budget, Ministry of Finance. November 1992.
S.        Evolution des ressources et charges des collectivit4e locale 1990-
1995). Division of Local Finance, Directorate of the Budget, Ministry
of Finance. November 1992.
6.        Les collectivit6s locales en chiffres.  General Directorate of Local
Governments. Ministry of the Interior. 1992.
7.        Collectivit6s locales. Guide des ratios financiers, 1988. Direction
G0n6rale des Collectivit6es Locales et Credit Local International des
Finances.  Project assisted by the Caisse Central. de Cooperation
Economique, 1990.
8.        FEC'o organLc law. December 1991.
9.        Decree implementing FEC's organic law.  November 1992.
B. Fonds d'Eauinment Communal
10.       Pipeline of subprojects in historical perspective.  November 1992.
11.       Audited financial statements for 1991.
12.       Other financial statements, budget, and financial projections.
13.       Analysis of loans in arrears.
14.       ztrengthenLng the operational capabilities of the FEC. Louis Berger
international Inc. Project assisted by USAID. May 1992.



- 119 -                             aux O
Page 2 of 2
C. Rnorts of Bank Consultants
15.       Intergovernmental finance issues: findings and recomendations.
Frangois Vaillancourt, Centre de Recherche et de D6veloppement Economique.
Universit6 de Montr6al. August 1992.
16.       Meanismes de distribution des subventions de fonctionnoment aux
communes marocaines: simulations et suggestions. Prangois Vaillancourt, Centre
do Recherche et de D4veloppement Economique. Universit4 do Montr6al. August
1992.
17.       Comments on the Moroccan VAT reform.  Richard Bird.  University of
Toronto. 1992.
18.       D6veloppement du syst&ue d'information et de gestion des collectivit6s
locales au Maroc. AntoLne Sylvain. Government of the Province of Qu6bec. June
1992.
19.       Local government finances in Morocco.  Assia Xhollaf, Department of
Urban Planning, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. January 1992.
D. selected mission workina baners
20.       Detailed financial projections for FEC.
21.       Review of first tranche of subprojects.
/J1/n9x-o
sn19/9



