                                             Documentof
                                          TheWorld Bank

                                  FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                              ReportNo. 37201-BD




                   INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION

                                     PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                  FORA PROPOSEDCREDIT

                          INTHE AMOUNT OFSDR27MILLION
                              (US$40 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                  TO

                     THE PEOPLE'SREPUBLICOFBANGLADESH

                                         FORA PROPOSED

  BANGLADESHRAILWAYREFORMPROGRAMMATICDEVELOPMENT
                                          POLICY CREDIT


                                         September20,2006




InfrastructureandEnergySector Unit
South Asia Region

Thls document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance o f their official
duties. Its contentsmaynot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                     BANGLADESH-GOVERNMENT            FISCAL  YEAR
                                    July I- June 30

                               CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                    (Exchange Rate Effective as of September, 2006)

                      Currency Unit          Bangladeshi Takas (Tk)
                         US$1.oo          Tk 69.45 (September 6,2006)

                                 Weights and Measures
                                      Metric System

                         ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS




ADB  Asian Development Bank                        IWT      InlandWater Transport
BR   Bangladesh Railway                            JBIC     JapanBank for International Cooperation
CAG  Comptroller Auditor General                   JSAN     Joint Staff Advisory Note
CAS  Country Assistance Strategy                   LDP      Letter of Development Policy
CFAA Country FinancialAccountability Assessment    LOB      LineofBusiness
DFID Department for InternationalDevelopment       MDGs     MillenniumDevelopment Goals
DPC  Development Policy Credit                     MOC      MinistryofCommunications
DPL  Development Policy Lending                    MOF      MinistryofFinance
DSC  Development Support Credit                    MTEF     Medium-TernExpenditureFramework
GOB  Government ofBangladesh                       NLTP     National LandTransport Policy
IBRD InternationalBank for Reconstructionand       OECD     Organization for Economic Co-operation
     Development                                            and Development
ICA  Investment Climate Assessment                 PER      Public Expenditure Review
ICD  InlandContainer Depot                         PFM      Public FinancialManagement
IDA  InternationalDevelopment Association          PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IFRS InternationalFinancialReporting System        PSO      Public Sector Obligation
IMF  InternationalMonetary Fund                    RHD      Roads and Highway Department
IMTP IntegratedMulti-Modal Transport Policy        SDR      Special Drawing Rights




                              Vice President: Praful Pate1
                           Country Director:  Christine I.
                                                         Wallich
                             Sector Director: Yusupha Crookes
                             Sector Manager:  GuangZ. Chen
                          Task Team Leader: BinyamReja




                                             1

           BANGLADESH WAYREFORMPROGRAMMATICDEVELOPMENT
                                RAIL                                                                                                       POLICY CREDIT

                                                          TABLEOF CONTENTS

  CREDITAND PROGRAMSUMMARY                                                                                                                                                          1
  I. INTRODUCTION                     .............................................................................................................................
                                                              ......................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                    4
  11.       COUNTRY CONTEXT                   ....................................................................................................................                  6
                       Recent Economic DevelopmentsinBangladesh...................................................................                                                  6
                       Macroeconomic Outlook and Debt Sustainability.................................................................                                               8
  111.      OVERVIEW OF THE TRANSPORTSECTOR ISSUES                                                                                                                                  10
  AND BANGLADESHRAILWAY                           .................................................................................................................
                                                                                                            .............................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                    10
                       The Railway Sector ...............................................                                                      ..............................
                        Governance and Management Issues with BangladeshRailways ............                                                                      ...............1115
                        Opportunities for BangladeshRailway to Contribute to Transport Needs.....................
  IV.       THE GOVERNMENT'SPROGRAM                                     ......................................................................................
   V.       BANKSUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'SSTRATEGY                                                                  .....................................................
                        Lessons Learned......................................                 .........................................................................             19
                                                                                                                                                                                    21
  VI.       THE PROPOSEDBANGLADESHRAILWAY PROGRAMMATIC REFORM                                                                                                                       25
  DEVELOPMENTPOLICY CREDIT                              ...........................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                         ......................
                                                                                                                                                                                    25
                                                                                                              ...........................................................
                        Policy Areas ..............................................................................
                        OperationDescription.                                                                                             ................................. .26     25

   VII.     OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION                                    ..................................................                 ..................................
                        Poverty and Social Impacts...................................................................................................                               29
                                                                                                                                                                          ...........29
                                                                                                                                                                                    31

                        Risks and Risk Mitigation..................................................................................................... 40
                        EnvironmentalAspects .........................................................................................................
                        Implementation, Monitoringand Evaluation.....................
                                                                                                                                                                                    39

                        Railway Stakeholder Analysis ..............................................................................................                                .58

                                                                          ANNEXES

   ANNEX 1:LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY                                               .................................................................................              42
   ANNEX 2: GOVERNMENTPOLICY/OVERALL GOVERNMENTDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM.53
   ANNEX 3: PROGRAMMATICDEVELOPMENTPOLICY OPERATION:PROGRAMMATlUX...61
   ANNEX 4: MEMORANDUM OFUNDERSTANDING                      ........................................................................................................
                                                                                        ............................................................................              ..65
   ANNEX 5: FUNDRELATIONSNOTE                                                                                                                                                       74
   ANNEX 6: COUNTRYAT A GLANCE                               .......................................................................................................                79
   MAP   ...........................................................................................................................                                               81

Task Team. The ProposedBangladesh Railway ReformProgrammatic DevelopmentPolicy Credit has beenprepared by
an IDA team consisting o f Binyam Reja (Sr. Transport Economist/Task Team Leader, SASEI), Martha B. Lawrence (Sr.
Transpoflailway Specialist, ECSIE), Mitsuyoshi Asada (Sr. Transport Specialist, SASEI), M o h i Uz Zaman Quazi (Sr.
Transport Engineer, SASEI), Adriana J. Damianova (Lead Environment Specialist, SASES), Richard Damania (Sr.
Environment Specialist, SASES), Afshan Khawaja, (Sr. Social Scientist, SASES), Nilufar Ahmad (Sr. Social Scientist,
SASES), T.K. Barua (Sr. Sociologist, Consultant), Pazhayannur K. Subramanian (Lead Financial Management Specialist,
SARFM), Burhanuddin Ahmed (Sr. Financial Management Specialists, SARFM), Zafrul Islam (Sr. Procurement
Specialist, SASPS), Zahid Hussain (Sr. EconomistMacro, SASPR), Kishor Uprety (Sr. Counsel, LEGMS), Chai-Ching
Shen (Sr. Finance Office, LOAG2), Ishtiaque Ahmed (Transport Specialist, SASEI), Reefat Sultana (Research Analyst,
SASEI), Tanvir Hossain (Procurement Analyst, SASPS), Ismat Sultana (Program Assistant (Dhaka), SASEI), Gizella
Diaz (Program Assistant (HQ),SASEI), Mark Kutzbach (Summer Intern, SASEI).
The operation has been prepared under the overall guidance o f GuangZ. Chen (Sector Manager, Transport SASEI).
Peer Reviewers/Quality Assurance Panel: Paul Amos (Transport Adviser, TUDTR), Vasile Olievschi (Sr. Railway
Specialist, ECSIE), Yash Pal Kedia (Railway Consultant), Jose Gomez-Ibanez (Professor o f Urban Planning and Public
Policy, Harvard University) and Amit Dar (Sr. Economist, SASHD).

                                        PROGRAMDOCUMENT

 Date: September 20, 2006                               Lending Instrument: Development Policy Credit
 Country: People's Republic o f Bangladesh             Board Approval Date: October 19, 2006
 Operation: Railway Reform Programmatic                 Effectiveness Date: January 19,2007
 Development Policy Credit                              Closing Date: January 31,2008
 Operation ID: P100330                                  Sectors: Railways (100%)
 Team Leader: BinyamReja                                Themes: Corporate governance (P); Other public
 Sector Managermirector: Guang Zhe Chen                 sector governance (S)
 Country Director: Christine I. Wallich                 Environmental screening. cateaorv: Not R e w i r e d

 Special Development Policy Lending:                              [ ] Y e s    [XINO
 Crisis or Post-Conflict Situation (exception to OP8.60):         [ ] Y e s
 Programmatic :                                                   [XIYes       [[ X] I N O
                                                                                    N o
 DeferredDrawdown Option:                                         [ ] Y e s    [XINO
 Subnational Lending:                                             [ ] Y e s    [XINO




 Does the operation depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?           [ ]Yes [XINO
 Does the operation require any exceptions from Bank policies?                             [ ]Yes [XINO
 Have these been approved by Bank management?                                              [ ]Yes [XINO
 I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                              [ ]Yes [XINO

 Operationdevelopmentobjective
 The proposed Bangladesh Railway Reform Programmatic Development Policy Credit will improve the
 governance structure within which Bangladesh Railway (BR) operates, addressing both governance
 relationship between the Government o f Bangladesh (GOB) and BR on the one hand, and corporate
 governance and management structure within the railways organization on the other. Improving
 governance of Bangladesh Railway would contribute to the economic development o f Bangladesh by
 improving transport services, government finances, and the investment climate inBangladesh.

  The implementation o f the reformprogram will help to (a) clarify relationship between GOB and BR and
~

 increase BR's autonomy and accountability, (b) improve corporate governance and management structure
 within BR so that BR is more commercially and market oriented, and (c) create an environment
 conducive to investment in railway operations. These would in turn yield more efficient rail operations
 and services to users, improve financial performance, and provide the basis for a growing use o f railway
 system by business passengers.

                     CREDIT AND PROGRAMSUMMARY


        BANGLADESHRAILWAYREFORMPROGRAMMATICDEVELOPMENT
                                 POLICY CREDIT


Borrower            The People's Republic o fBangladesh

~~
Implementing Agency MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND
                    BANGLADESHRAILWAY
Amount              SDR27 million (US$40 million equivalent)

Terms               StandardIDA terms; 40-year maturity anda 10-year grace period

 Tranching          To be disbursed ina single tranche uponCredit effectiveness.

Description         The proposed Bangladesh Railway Reform Programmatic
                    Development Policy Credit (DPC) i s the first of two operations
                    designed to support the Government o f Bangladesh's railway
                    reform and modernizationprogram.

                    The proposed operation is part o f a larger, multi-donor
                    development partnershipwith Government o f Bangladesh (GOB)
                    to modernize and reform the railway sector through a medium-
                    term reform and investment program. GOB has prepared a
                    National Land Transport Policy (NLTP) and a draft Integrated
                    Multimodal Transport Policy (IMTP) designed to promote key
                    reforms inthe transport sector, including the railways. The reform
                    program to be supported under the proposed Credit i s based on
                    the NLTP and IMTP, and has beenjointly agreed to by the main
                    development partners in the sector, including the Asian
                    Development Bank (ADB) and the Japan Bank for International
                    Cooperation (JBIC).       Each donor's     activities have been
                    coordinated both interms o f timing o freform actions and support
                    for investment loans.

                    The Development Objective o f the proposed operation is to
                    improve the governance structure within which Bangladesh
                    Railway (BR) operates, addressing both governance relationship
                    between GOB and BR on the one hand, and corporate governance
                    and management structure within the railways organizationon the
                    other. The implementation o f the reform program will help to (a)
                    clarify the relationship between GOB and BR and increase BR's
                    autonomy and accountability, (b) improve corporate governance
                    and management structure within BR so that BR is more


                                           1

            commercially and market oriented, and (c) create an environment
            conducive to investment in railway operations. These would, in
            turn, yield more efficient rail operations and services to users,
            improve financial performance, and provide the basis for a
            growing use o fthe railway system bybusinesses andpassengers.

            The reform program has five interrelated components: (a)
            restructuring BR by line o f business            organization,  (b)
            transforming BR into a corporate entity, (c) improving cost
            accounting and financial reporting, (d) improving humanresource
            planning and incentives, and (e)        improving operating and
            maintenance performance. These are discussed in the Program
            Document in detail and summarized in the Operational Policy
            Matrix inAnnex 3, which covers reform actions through 2011.
Benefits    Improving governance o f BR would contribute to the economic
            development o f Bangladesh by improving transport services,
            government finances, and the investment climate in Bangladesh.
            Line o f business restructuring and performance incentives will
            focus management on customer service and improve transport for
            both passengers and freight. New accounting and financial
            management systems will allow the Government to identify
            appropriate subsidies to achieve social goals while BR focuses on
            efficient operations. Transforming BR into a government-owned
            corporate entity, which would be done once the internal
            restructuring is completed and incentives within BR have
            improved, would ensure greater accountability o f the managers of
            the railways, and improve governance relationship between the
            government and railways. With a greater commercial focus, there
            is the potential to reduce, if not reverse, the losses that BR has
            been making and thus reduce the burden on the government to
            finance these losses. Improving the efficiency o f BR will also
            help to attract greater foreign direct investment into the country,
            as an efficient transportation system is one o f the factors that
            investors consider.

            The success o f the reform program would be measured by the
            following outcome indicators and targets at the end o f the reform
            programby 2011:
                    10% increase inpassenger and freight traffic
                    30 - 50% increase incontainer freight traffic
                    50% increase inlabor productivity
                    25% increase inasset utilization
                0   10%increase inoperating revenue
                    Working ratio reduced from 127% to 100%
                    Overall improved user satisfaction o f the railway services



                                  2

                           (user satisfaction survey will be carried out before and
                           after reform implementation)
Risks              Policy Reversal. Although GOB has shown commitment for the
                   proposed reforms, sudden policy reversals are not uncommon in
                   Bangladesh. This risk will be mitigated through upfi-ont actions
                   that would make it difficult for a future administration to reverse
                   reform programs, as well as effective communication by BR
                   management to inform the public o f the benefits and costs o f the
                   reform so that going back on reforms will be politically costly to
                   future administrations.

                   BR delays implementation of reform. In the past, BR has
                   backtracked on several reform initiatives, resulting in incomplete
                   reforms. This risk will be mitigated by linking future investment
                   projects with BRto progress inthe implementationo freforms.

                   Labor Resistance. Although the proposed reform program does
                   not entail labor retrenchment, the labor unions may still feel
                   threatened with job security, and be apprehensive about the
                   uncertainty associated with any reform program, including one
                   that entails losing civil service status. The risk will be mitigated
                   through an in-depth analysis o f the benefits and costs to labor,
                   clearly communicating the benefits and costs o f reforms fiom the
                   start, developing a robust safety net to mitigate adverse impacts
                   (if any) on staff, and facilitating effective participation by staff
                   and field managers during the preparation and implementation of
                   the reformprogram.
Operation IDNumber P100330




                                         3

                        THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLICOF BANGLADESH

                        IDA PROGRAMDOCUMENTFORA PROPOSED

         BANGLADESHRAILWAYREFORMPROGRAMMATICDEVELOPMENT
                                           POLICY CREDIT


                                     I. INTRODUCTION

1.      Bangladesh has been able to achieve good economic performance and attract foreign
investment in recent years. However, a weak governance environment and inadequate
infrastructure services are the two greatest obstacles to doing business inBangladesh, according
to an Investment Climate Assessment carried out in2003.' The two obstacles are interrelated, as
a weak governance environment affects the ability o f sector institutions to provide effective and
efficient infrastructure services. The poor governance in the railway sector combined with its
poor physical conditions has led to inadequate rail services for businesses and passengers, thus
hampering trade and investment in Bangladesh. The overarching objective o f the proposed
Bangladesh Railway Reform Programmatic Development Policy Credit (DPC) i s to improve the
governance structure within which the Bangladesh railway sector i s organized and financed, and
thus improve a key infrastructure sector that would contribute to the overall improvement o f the
investment climate inthe country.

2.      Recognizing that railway reform is complex and takes time, the reform program,
summarized inthe Policy Matrix shown inAnnex 3, covers actions through 2011infive areas o f
railway management. The reform program components include: (a) restructuring Bangladesh
Railway (BR) by line of business organization, (b) transforming BR into a corporate entity, (c)
instituting a transparent cost accounting and financial reporting system to support the lines o f
business, (d) improving human resource planning and incentives, and (e) improving operating
and maintenance performance. These reforms are designed to improve the governance
relationship between the Government o f Bangladesh (GOB) and BR, clarify responsibility and
accountability between GOB and BR, improve corporate governance and management structure
for BR to make it commercially oriented, create an environment conducive for expanded
investment in the sector, and ultimately improve the operational and financial performance o f
BR.

3.      Development Partnership. The proposed operation is part o f a larger, multi-donor
development partnership with GOB to modernize and reform the railway sector through a
medium-term reform and investment program. GOB has prepared a National Land Transport
Policy (NLTP) and a draft Integrated Multimodal Transport Policy (IMTP) designed to promote
keyreforms inthe transport sector, including the railwaysa2The reform program to be supported
under the proposed operationis based on the NLTP and IMTP, andhas beenjointly agreed to by


'Bangladesh: Investment ClimateAssessment (2003), World Bank.
'Government of Bangladesh NationalLandTransport Policy (2004); Draft IntegratedMultimodal Transport Policy
(2006).


                                                   4

5

  5.      The World Bank will provide programmatic policy credits to support and leverage other
  parts of the government involved in the reform program, in particular the Ministry of Finance
  (MOF). The first Bangladesh Railway DPC (US$40 million) is proposed for FY07 upon
  completion of the prior actions in the Policy Matrix, and i s to coincide with the ADB multi-
  tranche loan. The timeline for the proposed DPC would ensure that the government takes actions
  necessary to allow the railway to reform, while ADB provides financing for the cost o f technical
  assistance and information systems to BR for the implementation o f the reform program. At a
  later stage (in FY09), after significant progress on reform, the World Bank also plans an
  investment operation covering priority investments for infrastructure and rolling stock
  rehabilitationand expansion.

  6.      JBIC is also providing (in FY07) an investment loan for the Dhaka-Chittagong corridor,
  and will link major civil work contract awards to reform progress. The United Kingdom
  Department for International Development (DFID) is also contributing by providing technical
  assistance to the Planning Commission on broader sector governance issues, including the
  preparation o f the draft Integrated Multimodal Transport Policy and a 20-year Railway
  Development Master Plan. Finally, in addition to having common policy matrix andtriggers, the
  development partners would also monitor the implementation o f the reform programjointly (See
  Annex 4).

  7.      To support the reform program, and play a catalytic role for ensuring the success o f the
  reform program by coordinating with all donors and the wider government ministries and
  agencies, GOB has requested the International Development Association (IDA) for financial
  assistance under a proposed programmatic DPC. The rest o f the document is organized as
  follows: Sections 11and 111analyze the recent macroeconomic performance and overview o f the
  transport sector and Bangladesh Railway respectively; Sections IV andV summarize respectively
  the government's program andthe Bank's support to the government's program; and Sections VI
  and VII describe the proposed operation and implementation arrangement respectively.

                                  11.    COUNTRYCONTEXT                           1




  RecentEconomicDevelopmentsinBangladesh


  8.     Bangladesh has achieved some remarkable economic and social developmentprogress
  in recent years. GDP growth averaged 5.4 percent per annum over the FY01-05 period, and is
  estimated to have increased to 6.5 percent in FY06. This growth performance, coupled with a
  decline inthe population growth rate from 2.5 percent inthe 1980s to 1.7 percent in 1990-2004,
  has led to a tripling of annual per capita GDP growth, from 1.1 percent in the 1980s to 3.3
~ percent between 1990-2005, outperforming both IDA-only countries and low-income countries
  inthe latter period. This growth recordhas been accompanied by lower volatility due inpart to
  the diminishing severity o f the impact o f natural disasters and sound macroeconomic
  management.




                                                 6

9.      Macroeconomic management has been prudent overall. On the back of strong export
growth (over 20%) and remittance growth (25%), and slower than trend on non-oil import
growth (lo%), the current account balanced swung back to a surplus in FY06: current account
surplus equaled about 0.9 percent o f GDP inFY06, compared with a 0.6 percent of GDP deficit
inFY05. The BOP balance also recorded a surplus, allowing foreign exchange reserves to build
up to US$3.5 billion(a ten-year high)bymid-July, 2006: however, this still amountsto a modest
import cover o f 2.4 months, highlighting the need for continued caution on this front. Inflation
remains low by developing country standards, although recent trends give cause for some
concern. After averaging at 4 percent a year over FY01-04, CPI inflation pickedup to 6.5 percent
inFY05 and further to 7 percent inFY06. This increase largelyreflects higherimport prices for
food items, other consumer items and production inputs, as well as some monetary policy laxity
in2004 and early 2005. Monetary policy has been tightened considerably since, although credit
expansion in FY06 overshot program targets because o f strong demand. Authorities have
expressed their commitment to further monetary tightening to contain demand pressures and
lessenpressures on inflation.

10.      Fiscal management has been mixed. The FY06 fiscal deficit is estimated at 3.4 percent
o f GDP, smaller than the programmed 4.0 percent, primarily on account o f slower (than
programmed) implementation o f the Annual Development Program (ADP). Domestic financing
of the deficit was contained at about 2 percent o f GDP. Revenue generation, however, continues
to underperfom. InFY06, revenue collection amounted to only 10.6 percent of GDP (a marginal
improvement over FYOS), and tax collection to 8.1 percent o f GDP - one o f the lowest in the
world. The key fiscal risk arises from the mounting losses o f the state-owned enterprises sector
(SOEs), especially in the energy sector. SOE losses are estimated to have increased to about
US$670 million (1.1 percent o f GDP) in FY06, compared with just $80 million in FY04. The
Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC) accounts for more than 80 percent o f these losses
because o f inadequate pass-through o f the increases in world energy prices to domestic
consumers over the last two years. Furthermore, failure to adjust electricity tariffs since
September 2003 has caused significant losses at the Power Development Board. Biman, the
national airlines, and BCIC, the public sector chemicals corporation, are the other main loss-
makers.

11.      I n social and human development indicators, Bangladesh has taken large strides
toward achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The country has outperformed
most low-income countries on a range o f social indicators. It increased gross school primary
enrollment from 72 percent in 1980 to 98 percent in 2005 and has already attained the MDG o f
eliminating gender disparity in primary and secondary enrollment. With the sharp decline in
infantmortality from 145per 1,000 livebirths in 1970to 65 in2004, andinchildmortality from
239 per 1,000 to 88, Bangladesh is set to achieve the targeted two-thirds reduction from 1990
levels by 2015. Food security has improved markedly, even for the very poor. There have also
been steady gains inpoverty reduction; the share o f the population inpoverty declined from 59
percent in 1990 to 50 percent in 2000, with the rural sector accounting for nearly four-fifths o f
this decline. Bangladesh's actual indicators for fertility, infant and child mortality, contraceptive
prevalence, and crude birthand death rates are muchbetter thanwould bepredicted for a country
at its income level.



                                                 7

12.     Bangladesh's gains have taken place despite widely held perceptions of weak
governance. On most perceptions-based governance indicators, Bangladesh ranks low, especially
for control o f corruption, regulatory quality and rule o f law. However, as the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Bangladesh notes, understanding Bangladesh's success in an environment of
perceived poor governance requires unbundling the broad concept of governance, recognizing
that Bangladesh has had both successes and failures, and that it needs a more nuanced
interpretation o fthe governance indicator^.^

13.      The FY07 budget, approved by the parliament on June 29, 2006, continues
Bangladesh 's established tradition of prudent fiscal management. The overall budget deficit i s
projected to remain at around 3.5 percent in FY07, with domestic financing of deficit contained
at 2 percent. The key features o f the FY07 revenue mobilization effort include a commitment to
modernize the tax system via reorganization o f the National Board of Revenue along functional
lines, a commitment to further strengthen the income tax and VAT Large Taxpayers Unit
operations, a strategic shift from dependence on import taxation to domestic taxes, and a
transparent and simplified import tariff structure. The planned FY07 composition o f total public
expenditure continues to favor education and health (22.6 percent), transportation infrastructure
(10 percent), local government and rural development (10 percent), agriculture (8.3 percent), and
targeted poverty reductionprograms (5 percent).

14.      The macroeconomic framework has remained mostly consistent with the targets agreed
with the IMFunder its PRGFprogram. Recognizing this, the fifthPRGFreview is expected to be
discussed at the IMF Board in October 2006, although a confirmation o f this was pendingfrom
the IMFteam at the time this document was prepared as the teamwas stillinthe field.

Macroeconomic Outlook
15.      For the first time inthe history o f Bangladesh, the FY07 budget has been placed together
with an explicit Medium-TermMacroeconomic Framework (MTMF).This MTMFis an updated
version o f the framework in the government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)'
reflecting information on developments in the domestic and international economy since the
finalization o fthe PRSP late last year (Table 1).

16.      GDP growth is projected to rise to 6.8 percent in FY07 and rising by 0.1 percentage
points annually in the next two years. These modest increases in growth will be driven by 8-9
percent annual export growth and a one-percentage point o f GDP increase inthe investment rate
inthe medium-term. Overall, budget deficit is projected to be contained at 3.7 percent o f GDP
with the revenue-GDP ratio rising from an estimated 10.6 percent in FY06 to 11.9 percent in
FY09 and the expenditure-GDP ratio rising from an estimated 13.9 percent in FY06 to 15.6
percent inFY09. Net foreign financing is projected to remain stable at around 2 percent o f GDP,
implying a prudent strategy o f containing domestic financing at less than 2 percent o f GDP.


  For discussionon the conundrum of governance inBangladesh, see World Bank Country Assistance Strategyfor
Bangladesh FY06-09, (discussed at the Board on March 29,2006), Report 35193, April 19, 2006, PP 3-9.
5Govement of People's Republic of Bangladesh, Planning Commission, General Economics Division,
BANGLADESH: Unlocking the Potential National Strategyfor Accelerated Poverty Reduction, October 16,2005.



                                                     8

Projected broad money growth is also well in line with growth in nominal GDP. Foreign
exchange reserves are assumed to remain stable at a modest 2.4 months o f imports. With
sustained global economic recovery and barring any major breakdown in Bangladesh's internal
political stability, this scenario i s achievable under the current pace o f policy and institutional
reforms.


                                                        2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09
                                                                 Est.    Proj.   Proj.   Proj.
         GDP growth                                       5.9     6.5     6.8     6.9     7.0
         Investment (% of GDP)                           24.5    24.2    24.5    24.8    25.2
         CPI inflation                                    6.5     7.0     6.0     5.5     5.0




         Net domestic asset (percent change)             17.3    15.0    13.5    13.5    13.1
         Broad money (percent change)                    16.8    14.3    13.4    13.0    13.0

        x p o r t , f.0.b.(percent change)               14.0    16.0     9.8     9.4     9.3
         Import, c.i.f. (percent change)                 20.6    10.0     9.1     8.3     8.2
         Foreign exchange reserve (inmonths o f import)   2.6     2.4     2.4     2.4     2.4



17.       With prudent debt management, and steps to contain the expansion o f contingent
liabilities, the ratio o f total debt to GDP should remain within a comfortable level over the
mediumterm. Total central government debt to GDP is projectedto decline from 48 percent in
FY06 to 46.7 percent inFY07. For the first, the Budget in Brieffor FY07 includes a note listing
all explicit Guarantees and Counter Guarantees provided by the central government against loans
negotiated by various state-owned financial and non-financial enterprises. These contingent
liabilities amount to $2.5 billion, equivalent to 4.1 percent o f GDP. Though sizable, the debt
level remains within sound limits even with the contingent liabilities. More than half of the total
public sector debt i s external, which has been roughly stable at around 30 percent o f GDP.
Almost all o f Bangladesh's external debt i s on concessional terms, with an average grant element
o f 55 percent. The NPV o f debt to exports ratio is relatively low, and the debt service ratio, at
about 6 percent o f exports, also remains manageable. As noted, the key risk to debt sustainability
arises from growing energy SOE losses due to under-pricing o f energy products. Accordingly,
adjustment o f domestic fuel prices to cover their import costs, and o f power to cover production
cost, would be essential for continuedprospects o f debt sustainability.

18.       The above outlook is subject to downside risks. High international oil prices may
continue to weaken the balance of payments. Persistent problems with power generation and
delivery, and political uncertainty in the run up to elections in January 2007 pose risks. These
risks could lead to slower growth, higher inflation, and a weaker external position, with increased
vulnerability.




                                                          9

               111.    OVERVIEW OFTHE TRANSPORT SECTORISSUES
                                 AND BANGLADESHRAILWAY

19.     Transport sector spending has been one of the largest development expenditures in
Bangladesh, averaging about 27 percent of the total Annual Development Program (ADP) in
FY2003-05 period and 1.5 percent o f GDP. This expenditure, however, has overemphasized the
road sector, while neglectingthe railways, inlandwater transport (IWT), andport systems. Eighty
percent of the transport budget was allocated to the road sector, the majority o f which (up to 85
percent) financed expansion and upgrading o f rural roads and highways. The railway and IWT
sub-sectors, on the other hand, received 18 percent and 2 percent respectively of the total
transport sector spending in 2005. Most of the spending in these modes was used for
administrative and maintenance purposes and to underwrite the losses to keep the systems
running at a minimum level o f service. Very little expansion and renewal investment has been
made inrail and IWT, which in turn has resulted in dilapidated infrastructure and poor rail and
IWT services and a decreasing use o fthese modes bypassengersandbusinesses.

20.     Bangladesh's    road network now        provides access
throughout the country. Bangladesh has added an average o f
7,000 km o f roads every year since its independence. Today,
Bangladesh has over 274,000 km o f classified roads (versus
4,000 km classified in 1971), o f which 253,000 km are classified
rural roads managed by the Local Government Engineering
Departmentandother localbodies, and21,000 kmare major road
network managed by the Roads and Highway Department
(RHD). The government strategy in the road sector has been to
build five major road corridors connecting major economic centers and towns with Dhaka, and
expanding the rural road network to connect villages with market growth centers. This strategy
has resulted inBangladesh havingthe densest road network inSouthAsia (See Table 2).

21.     Despite the significant investments (albeit mostly inthe road sector), the transport system
is considered deficient by users. A rapidly growing economy - projections are for 6-7% growth
annually - needs an efficient and effective transport system. Power and ports are currently
considered the more bindingconstraint, but transport i s becoming a serious bottleneck for private
sector investment. The 2003 Investment Climate Assessment (ICA) reveals that 81 percent o f
enterprises surveyed found transport as an obstacle to doing business. The quality o fthe vast road
network i s poor, often single or intermediate lanes, with only 40 percent o f the major road
network (FED network) in good condition. Congestion and safety are major concerns; modem
logistics systems andmultimodal transport system are rarely employed.

22.     Environment and Social Sustainability in Transport. The current GOB strategy in the
transport sector is to develop a more balanced transport system and modal share in the country,
with less relative emphasis on roads. This is because expanding more roads in Bangladesh has
been environmentally and socially unsustainable. It requires large-scale land acquisition and


6Source: www.worldbank.org/sartransport


                                                10

resettlement o f large population, a costly and difficult proposition in a land-scarce and densely
inhabited country like Bangladesh. Also, road safety is already a major concern in Bangladesh.
Eight to ten persons die every day inroad accidents, andtraffic androad-related accidents are the
tenth largest cause o f disability and death in Bangladesh. Finally, road transport has major
environmental externalities, especially air and noise pollutions. Railways, by contrast, can be
expanded with little land acquisition, and i s more environmentally sustainable and generally
much safer. It saves on energy and generates less pollution. In densely used corridors, railways
could providean efficient passenger transport system. For all o fthese reasons, the government is
now emphasizing the development and modernization o f the railway sector to better serve the
transport needs o f the economy. However, the railway sector faces serious infrastructure,
institutional and governance challenges, and these need to be overcome first if rail i s to play a
more important role in the transport sector, and thus achieve the govemment's objective for a
more environmentally and socially sustainable transport system inthe country.

The RailwaySector
23.     As a critical intermediary in a multi-modal transport system serving ports, industrial
zones, and population centers throughout Bangladesh, the railway is a crucial and strugglingsub-
sector inurgentneed o f reform and modernization. BR's fragmented network i s characterized by
low productivity, declining traffic volume, and budget shortfalls. Railway sector governance
challenges and inadequate resource allocation are largely responsible for these persistent
obstacles to effective service.

24.      Traffic and Market Share. BR carried 42.3 million passengers and 3.2 million tons o f
freight duringthe 2003-2004 operating year. Rail's market sharehas beendeclining; BRprovides
less than 17 percent o f the total passenger transport and 15 percent o f freight transport in the
country, down from 20 and 17 percent, respectively in 1985. This, however, is a national
estimate, and in some market segments the rail's market share is higher and has some
competitive advantages. For example, on the Dhaka-Chittagong corridor the rail's market share
for freight in terms o f ton-km i s about 24 percent. The average container tariff between Dhaka
and Chittagong is about Tk400 per ton (though this is a regulated tariff), whereas the truck
charge for the same is about Tk700 - 750 (for garment), in spite o f the fact that the rail has a
much longer travel distance (319km) thanthe road (245 km).

25.      BR is mostly a passenger transport system, with 83 percent o f the train-km devoted to
providing passenger services (Table 3). Yet, this i s also the most money losing part o f its
operation. Both passenger and freight tariffs are fixed by the government at a much lower level
than the average cost o f providing the services. The main commodities transported by BR are
food grains, petroleumproducts, fertilizer and stones, and more recently containers. These freight
service areas make up 70 percent o f the rail freight traffic in 2005. BR's container business is
growing rapidly - at 10-15 percent per year inthe last five years - and, now comprises 20 percent
o fBR's freight revenue andoperations.

26.     Road Sector Competition. The large investment in the road sector has contributed to a
rapid expansion o f the road network, challenging railway dominance in markets that were once
secure. Routes such as the Dhaka-ChittagongCorridor, where users demand efficient and reliable



                                                11

service on a large scale, are opportunities for BR to provide transport services that the road sector
cannot offer. However, a recent World Bank diagnostic study concludes that even in this ideal
market, commercial trucking and bus passenger service are dominating rail tran~port.~                   Even so,
the study demonstrates the inadequacies o f these road transport services, such as poor safety,
congestion and loss and damage o f goods during transit, and thus, suggesting the importance o f
improvingrailway service.

27.       The commercial trucking industry, while operating in a competitive and market driven
environment, provides poor quality service. With 57,000 registered trucks in 2006, the industry
produces about two thirds o f the annual freight ton-km in Bangladesh. Ownership i s distributed
among 20,000 to 30,000 private owners, as well as a small portion by the Bangladesh Road
Transport Corporation. Distributed ownership does not achieve economies o f scale sufficient to
invest in larger vehicles. Less than one thousand vehicles are able to cany standard 40-ft
containers. This leads to workers at Chittagong Port de-stuffingcontainers and transferring goods
to available trucks, often overloaded and without covers or insurance. With smaller operations,
trucking firms often charge higher rates as well. Because o f the lack o f adequate trucking
services, many factories and exporters keep a fleet o f trucks to mitigate the risk o f unreliable
trucking services, thereby internalizing the inefficiencies from the trucking industry into their
operations.' This is a poor use o f scarce resources as it would be generally more cost effective if
businesses contracted with truckers to ship their goods.

28.       Passenger bus services are dominant in many markets. Shorter bus travel time, multi-
point ticketing and pick up services, flexible commencement times, and other amenities account
for the strong bus competition, according to a survey conducted with users. The average, non-air-
conditionedbus takes 6 hours on the Dhaka-Chittagongroute, while, o fthe six trains operating in
the route, one is non-stop and takes 6.5 hours and the others between 8 and fourteen hours with
between 5 and 40 train stops along the way. Depending on amenities, the train i s generally less
expensive than buses. Nevertheless, with growing travel demand and congestion on the Dhaka-
Chittagong corridor, passengerrail transport i s important for the future ofBangladesh.

29.       Different Rail Gauges. BR operates a mixed broad gauge and meter gauge network
containing 2855 route-km (4443 track-km). This technical characteristics o f BR infrastructure
(isolated networks andmixedgauge) create significant constrains to ensure BR's competitiveness
with road transport and increase its market share. The planned investment projects for the
rehabilitation, modernization and development o f the railway infrastructure in Bangladesh
therefore should take into account the future transport demand, the need to have one-type gauge
within the country, as well as to harmonize the gauge standards with neighboring countries for
future regional and international trade. As part o f the DFID-supported, Railway Development
Master Plan, BR plans to define the mid- and long-term investment plans and a transition
strategy from the current mixedgauge to a single gauge infrastructure inthe entire country. This
would entail engaging all development partners to develop a common transition strategy towards



7World Bank. 2006. Comparative Study on Road and Rail Transport.
  ' h s is analogous to the situation where factories in Bangladesh own generators because of the unreliable power
supplyfiomthe powerproviders.


                                                          12

 a single gauge in the country. It would also mean that some o f the planned double-tracking
 investmentsmayneedto consider a dual-gaugesystem as a transition strategy.

 30.     Operational Problems. A severe shortage of capacity exists on critical sections of the
 network especially the Dhaka-Chittagong comdor. Poor maintenance of its locomotives is a
 major cause o f BR's operational problems, which is reflected in the low utilization o f
 locomotives. Frequent locomotive failures also consume needed track capacity. BR maintains its
 track manually following the 1958 Bangladesh RailwayWay and Works manual, which provides
 for only manual maintenance on old type tracks. A Wher operational problem is the increasing
 incidents o f derailments on BR. The average annual number o f derailments between 2001 and
 2005 was 586, compared to 312 between 1996 and2000.9

 31.    Inadequate Maintenance. Because o f reduced revenue generation BR has been getting
 insufficient maintenance fund for several years. Annual maintenance requirement for BR is about
 Tk2,433 million (US$35 million), whereas the allocated fund is only about Tk260 million
 (US$4.3 million), which is about 12 percent o f the requirement. Because o f insufficient
 maintenance funds, only 40 percent o f locomotives are being maintained for the operation, and
 76 percent o f locomotives are beingoutdated. Similarly, only 51percent o fpassenger coaches are
 being maintained. According to BR, the railway needs Tk4,124 million (US$58.9 million) for
 maintenance o f tracks, Tk3,174 million (US$45.3 million) for maintenance o f rolling stock,
 signal, telecom and electric equipment for the next three years. In order to improve BR's
 operational efficiency and beginits recovery program, GOB should increase the allocation o f the
 maintenance funding for BR's urgent maintenance requirements in accordance with the three-
 year planshown inTable 3.


I s1. ITable 3 Three-year Maintenance Plan for Bangladesh Railway (FY06-07 to 08-09) (Taka million)

  No             Nameof Department                Year -1       Year 2
                                                                    -          Year -3          Total
  1    CIVIL ENGINEERING
   (i) Trackmaintenance, materials& equipments       1,137.28       976.94        1,560.36       3,674.58




  Bangladesh Railway Information Book, 2005


                                                  13

32.       Low Labor Productivity. BR's labor productivity i s the lowest among similar railways in
Asia (Table 4). Labor retrenchment carried out in the 1990s has shed 20,000 staff through a
voluntary separation program, but because of stagnant or declining traffic units, labor
productivity has not caught up with other countries. The reform program does not envisage any
large-scale retrenchment, as this has been already carried out, but the reform and investment
program are expected to increase traffic, and thus improve labor productivity.




                                           Source: UIC Railway Database

33.      Financial Performance. The last time BR made an operating profit was in 1970. Since
then, inpart due to its decliningmarket share, increasing costs andregulated tariffs, BRhasbeen
running at a deficit. Table 5 shows revenues and expenses for fiscal year 2004-2005. BR's
operating revenue for 2004-2005 was Taka 4.5 billion and operating expense was Taka 7 billion,
resultinginan operating deficit o f Taka 2.5 billion and a working ratio o f 156percent. Thirty-six
percent o f BR's total operating expenditure is supported by GOB subsidy in the form o f Public
Service Obligation (12 percent), welfare grant for education and health services (2 percent), and
operating expense subsidy (22 percent). All capital expenditures are financedbythe government.




                        Total Operating Revenue                  I  4,456.24    1   100%
                                                                 I             I
                      I Operating  expenses
                        General Administration                   I  1,129.51   I    16%
                        Repair and Maintenance                      2,461.13        35%
                      1Iberational Staff                         II 1.034.00   II   15%     I
                        Operation Fuel                              920.74          13%


10
* * Someyears are different depending on the latest available data.
    Miscellaneous revenue includes rent from leased facilities, fiber optics and land, which have grown in recent
years.



                                                          14

                    Operationother than staff and he1       46.5.64        7%
                    MiscellaneousExpense                    942.82         14%
                    Depreciation                                           0%
                    Total OperatingExpenses                6,950.86       100%

                    Deficit and Government Subsidies
                    OperatingDeficit                       2,494.62
                    Working Ratio                            156%




                           Source: BangladeshRailway InformationBook (2005)

34.     Financial performance varies in different divisions o f BR, with the East, freight intensive
zone, being more self-sufficient. The East Zone, containing the Dhaka-Chittagong Corridor,
achieves greater economies o f scale than the West Zone (Table 6). The East Zone not only runs
more freight trains than the West Zone, and more freight train kilometers, but also runs more
wagons and a higher percentage o f loaded wagons. Despite the difference in activity, the West
Zone has almost as many employees as the East Zone. This disparity implies lower productivity
and less efficient operations in the West Zone. As a result, in 2004-2005, East Zone operating
revenue covered 79 percent o f operating expenses, while West Zone operating revenue covered
only 58 percent o f operating expenses. Thus, the performance o f the West Zone is a major
contributor to the overall poor financial circumstances o fBR.




                           Source: BangladeshRailway InformationBook (2005)

Governance and Management Issues with BangladeshRailways
35.     Bangladesh Railway's governance structure has been a source of much of its
inefficiencies and poor service delivery to users. BR is the sole provider o f rail infrastructure
development and rail service in Bangladesh. It is a government department in the Ministry o f
Communication, subject to government civil service rules and management. Its organizational



                                                   15

structure i s oriented around operations, with functional departments overlaid on a geographically
defined regional operating structure (East and West regions separated by the Jamuna River).
BR's civil service department status has limited its managerial and operational autonomy and
exacerbated its lack of commercial orientation. BR is not in a position to take business decisions
and respondto changing market conditions and focus on profitable market segments where rail
has a competitive advantage over other modes. Decisions such as tariffs changes, staffing issues,
abandonment of unprofitable passenger lines and all major investment decisions have to be
referred to the government where decisions are made through the normal civil service rules and
practices, and where politics often come into play in the decision making process. The delays
inherent insuch process have often meant a loss o fbusiness opportunities for BR.

36.    BR is used by GOB to advance a range of macroeconomic and social objectives. For
example, by keeping tariffs low for petroleum shipments, the government counters external fuel
price shocks. Similarly, freight rates for food aid and fertilizer shipment are kept low to address
food security problems in the country. The same is true with passenger fares. Instead o f paying
for these services directly and allowing BR to operate commercially, the government chooses to
regulate tariffs across the board and finance the railway deficit through its regular budget. This
government practice, however, denies BR the commercial incentive to operate efficiently, and
masks the level o f subsidy being provided to various traffic types. The government's choice o f
instrument to regulate tariffs across the board, rather thanpaying for the services it needs, reflects
inpart the lack of a cost accounting system that allows bothGOB andBRto know the true cost
o f providing the transport services in question. A transparent cost accounting and financial
reporting system i s needed for the government to know what traffics are being subsidized and to
make rational decisions about what services are worth subsidizing for macroeconomic and social
reasons.

37.    Human resourceplanning lacksperformance incentives. The employment structure and
personnel policies do not have an incentive system that rewards staff and operational units for
providing cost-effective services and increasingrail's market share. Conversely, staff andunitsin
BR are not penalized for not responding to market demand. Promotions are according to very
rigid civil service rules, without sufficient regard to merit and performance. There is a high
turnover rate within BR's top management, most o fwhom are appointed towards their retirement
age, and thus do not stay long enough in their position to make significant management
decisions. At the mid and lower managerial level, transfers are fiequent and carried out without
regardfor continuity andperformance improvement.

Opportunitiesfor BangladeshRailwayto Contributeto TransportNeeds
38.    Despite its declining market share and financial deficit, the railway sector could be a
viable operation in certain market segments and thus contribute to solving the transport problem
inthe country.

39.    The main service opportunities for BR include:

          0   Increasing Dhaka-Chittagong Corridor container traffic. Currently BR transports
              only 10% o f the current 610,000 TEU containers coming into Chittagong Port; the
              rest are de-stuffed and shipped by trucks. Rail container transport will become


                                                  16

             increasingly important once the New Mooring Container Terminal in Chittagong
             Port starts operation (expected in late 2006), and the proposed Bank-financed I C D
             (dry port) near Dhaka is completed (expected in2009). Therefore, improvements in
             the rail sector would be essential if the government's port sector reform efforts are
             to succeed. Currently, the circuitous rail route is longer than the road, making it
             difficult for the railway to compete with trucks and buses. Part o f BR's investment
             program is to construct a more direct rail line ( also known as `chord line') to even
             the distance andpermitincrease the railways share o ftraffic.

             Facilitating trade between Bangladesh and neighboring countries. This would
             require transit agreement between Bangladesh and neighboring countries. However,
             once this transit agreement is secured, there would be demand for Bangladesh rail
             transport service byneighboring countries for international trade.

             Promoting passenger transport between cities and relieving congestion. Intercity
             (IC) trains on the Dhaka-Chittagong Corridor. I C trains have emerged as the most
             popular BR passenger services and the non-stop services are quite competitive with
             bus services. Similarly, commuter transport inDhaka could be an important part o f
             a solution to address congestion in the Dhaka metro area. BR plans to expand its
             commuter service in Dhaka, but this would require substantial investment on
             bridges to segregate rail from road transport and should only be done inthe context
             of an overall urbantransport planfor Dhaka.

                          IV.     THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM

40.     The PRSP accords high priority for improving Bangladesh's infrastructure in general
and the transport sector in particular. The PRSP notes that inadequate and poorly managed
infrastructure services have been a drag on the performance o f the economy and Bangladesh's
development effort for faster economic growth and poverty reduction. The PRSP further notes
that the transport system needs to be more balanced. The rail system could play a much greater
role in meeting the growing transport demand in the country in a more environmentally and
socially sustainable way.

41.     NLTP Objectives in the Rail Sector. GOB'S specific railway policy and strategies are
detailed inthe NLTP and include the following:'2

        Encourage greater private sector participation inthe provision o f services
        Enhance operational capacity o frailways
        Obtain greater market share for freight
        Manage the railways asset more efficiently
        Improve financial efficiency
        Provide service for social needsmore effectively
        Foster inter-regional links
        Reduce involvement innon-rail and non-core activities

12Government of Bangladesh, National Land Transport Policy, 2004, P. 33


                                                    17

    0   Improve safety
    0   Transform BR into a corporate government-owned entity

42.     Implementation of the railpart of the NLTP has been slow. This is inpart due to lack o f
commitment by the government, and inpart due to lack o f long-term support from development
partners to facilitate the implementation o f the reforms. Inaddition, BR also did not formulate
nor implement any reformprogram.
                                                                    Box 1: NationalLand Transport Policy
43.     Nevertheless, there are some noteworthy             The National Land Transport Policy (NLTP) approved
                                                            by GOB in April 2004 has been preparedwith a long-
reforms undertaken by GOB and BR to meet                    term vision of 30 years. The policy objectives include
some of the NLTP objectives, especially in the              provision of a safe and dependabletransport service in
areas o f private sector partnership. BR has now            light of the increasingdemand, removalof unnecessary
                                                            control and formulation of laws and regulation
outsourced the following activities to the private          conductive to providing services. Although GOB will
sector:                                                      continue to regulate fares, it will provide objectively
                                                             andtransparentlydeterminedsubsidies. The Policy will
                                                            help decide the role of GOB and the private sector in
    0   onboard services on intercity trains;               the provision of transport services and will try to

    0   computerized ticketing and reservation              ensure efficacy in transport investment. In order to
        systems;                                            maintain the economic and environmental balance,
                                                            emphasis is givenmore on rail andwater transport than
    0   running fiber optic telecommunications              on roads. The policy will play an important role in
        network;                                            helping reduce the transport cost of goods for export
                                                            and in keeping the cost of Bangladeshi goods
    0   refurbishment o fpassenger coaches;                 competitive in the world market. The policy also
    0   cleaning o f engines andpassenger coaches;          introducesan IntegratedTransport System integrating
                                                            rail, roadandwater terminals.
    0   conversion o f non air-conditioned coaches
        to air-conditioned ones; and
    0   maintenance o f selected tracks.

44.     The results of these limited reforms have been dramatic. BR obtained additional Taka
113 million annually from outsourcing the ticketing of 63 trains compared to the time when it ran
the services itself. BR has also been able to generate Taka 860 million a year through the leasing
o f its fiber optic cable network to the private sector. These additional revenues, generated
through simple reforms designed to improve revenue collection, make up 25 percent o f BR's
current operatingrevenues.

45.     In addition to the above operational reforms, GOB has been working with ADB to
undertake institutional and labor reforms. A major staff retrenchment was completed recently,
which reduced BR staff by some 20,000 through a voluntary separation scheme. A draft Bill for
corporatizing BR was prepared, and has been under discussion within GOB and stakeholders.
However, it was not submittedto Cabinet for approval.

46.     Multimodal Transport Policy. GOB is currently preparing a multimodal transport policy
that i s expected to treat all modes eq~a1ly.l~Previous biased investments in the road sector
appear to be changing, as seen by the marked increase in investment in the port sector and
Dhaka-Chittagong Corridor. The second stage inmultimodal transport policy development would


l3The preparation of the multimodal transport policy is being supported by DFID, and a draft policy has been
discussedby Cabinet, which has recommended some changesbefore its approval.


                                                     18

be to create a level playing field for all modes, including enforcement o f axle load limits for
trucks, and the adoption o f a fair and equal cost recovery policy for both road and rail
infrastructure.

                      Box 2: Elements of the Draft Integrated Multi-modal Transport Policy
The Integrated Multi-Modal Transport Policy (IMTP) soon to be approved by the Government o f Bangladesh
(GOB) aims to builda secure, dependable and uninterrupted modem transport network, addressing problems related
to road, rail, inland water transport, including access to ports and airports. Inpreparing the IMTP, the National Land
Transport Policy and the National Shipping Policy have been combined with air transportation service plans. The
IMTP addresses Bangladesh's competitiveness in the export market with cost reductions through quicker transit
times, suitable infrastructure at ports as well as improved integration with inland transport modes. The I M T P will
also help strengthen the national economy, promote trade and business and improve the overall quality o f services in
the transport sector.

Under the IMTP, Bangladesh Railway will be transformed into a government-owned corporate entity, and develop
multi-modal corridors between major economic growth centers, the immediate priority being the Dhaka-Chittagong
Economic Corridor. The policy also encourages steps to integrate neighboring country railways and carriers with the
BangladeshRailway network, wherever there are transport or revenue benefits.

The IMTP will assist GOB inachieving a more rational and balanced investments across transport modes. It will
focus towards modes o f transport that use financial resources efficiently and those that are environment friendly.
Taking advantage o f Bangladesh's geographical position, the IMTP will help develop international transport links
that are revenue generating for the nation.



                V.       BANK SUPPORTTO THE GOVERNMENT'SSTRATEGY

47.       Rationalefor Policy-based Lending. The proposed Bangladesh Railway DPC will be the
first major Bank operation inBangladesh's railway sector. Because o fthe underlying importance
o f sector governance reforms for the success o f any railway investment, the first Bank
engagement in the sector i s proposed as a policy-based lending to support reforms before
substantial investments are undertaken. The long history o f Bank engagement in railways
worldwide suggests that institutional andgovernance improvements are fundamental for ensuring
the efficacy o frailway investment. Inaddition, experience with the ADB support for Bangladesh
Railway has shown that government support and oversight i s necessary for successful
implementation o f reform in BR. Bangladesh Railway needs government approval for virtually
every reform step from changing the organization structure to implementing a new accounting
system to gaining authority to set market prices for freight and first class passenger services.
Conversely, previous reform efforts have shown that BR's management is not sufficiently
proactive to carry out reforms without clear direction from the government. Thus, the need to
bringthe full force o fthe government through abudget support operation.

48.       Link to CAS. The new World Bank Country Assistance Strategy for Bangladesh, which
was discussed at the Board on March 29, 2006, makes governance a central focus o f its strategy
for supporting the two pillars o f Bangladesh's PRSP, improving the investment climate and
empowering the poor. The first pillar emphasizes the need to improve "governance and
efficiency in infrastructure by reducing opportunities for corruption and nontransparent
procurement practices," and promoting governance improvements across sectors and to
"selectively support meaningful reforms in key high-priority areas." The CAS also envisions


                                                           19

expanded support to the government's transport sector strategy, aimed at gradually establishing
an integrated multimodaltransport system covering road, rail, inland water and port services. For
the rail sector, the CAS includes World Bank support for rail contingent upon reforms o f
Bangladesh Railway to increase its financial sustainability and commercial focus.14 Railway
lendingfor Bangladesh is included as a reserve project inthe CAS lendingprogramfor FY06-09.

49.     The proposed operation will support the CAS'S development outcome to improve access
to, and quality of, infrastructure services, by strengthening sector governance, encouraging
greater private sector participation, and help achieve the specific CAS outcome "Improvements
in the Dhaka-Chittagong Transport Corridor". For larger CAS goals, by improving railway
governance, the proposed operation will contribute to improving sector performance, as well as
create an environment conducive to expanded government and donor investment inrailways.

50.      Under the CAS period, the Bank will continue to engage the government on policy and
institutional reforms supported under development policy lending and utilize more budgetary
support operations to improve sector and core governance reforms. IDA fhding under
development policy lending will comprise 30-40 percent o fthe total lendingfor Bangladesh. The
proposed Credit fits within this allocation limit. The CAS also makes development policy
lending conditional on four economic management and governance-related benchmarks:

    0   Maintaining macroeconomic stability, including adhering to the targets established under
        the agreedmacroeconomic framework supportedunder IMFprograms.
    0   Meeting the revenue targets established under the PRSP's macroeconomic framework, as
        revisedunder the Government's agreements with the IMF.
    0   Achieving satisfactory progress on the annual benchmarks to be established under the
        agreed Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) framework, which
        would be aimed at improving Bangladesh's Public Financial Management (PFM) ratings
        over the medium term.
    0   Enacting a new procurement act satisfactory to IDA and satisfactorily implementing
        procurement reforms as agreed in the PEFA framework and past development policy
        lending operations.

51.     The above benchmarks have been substantially met. The IMF macroeconomic and fiscal
assessment would confirm that the first two benchmarks have been met. The government i s
progressing on PEFAreforms and has passed a procurement act.

52.     As reviewed earlier, Bangladesh has maintainedmacroeconomic progress and the Fund's
PovertyReduction and Growth Facility (PRGF)program remains broadly on track.

53.     Efforts to strengthen the National Board o f Revenue (NBR) are ongoing, although these
are yet to translate into substantial revenue gains. Inrecent years, the government has established
and operationalized large taxpayer units for income tax andVAT anda Central Intelligence Cell,
hired advisors (international and local) for audit, human resources, change management, and IT


l4 World Bank Country Assistance StrategV for Bangladesh FY06-09, Report 35193, pp 18-19 and 54, April 19,
2006


                                                   20

functions. It has now embarked upon restructuring the NBR Board along more functional lines,
and making sustained efforts to ensure better taxpayer compliance. Overall, these reform efforts
at the NBR, if completed in earnest, should translate into significant revenue gains over the
mediumterm.

54.     With respects to the PEFA Performance Measurement Framework, the government has
developed a time-bound reform action plan to improve Bangladesh's PFM ratings. In addition,
the government has established monitorable annual benchmarks under the PEFA Framework.
Furthermore, in consultation with key stakeholders, it has developed a Public Financial
ManagementImprovement Plan(PFMIP) andhas implemented some key early actions contained
inthe plan, including: disclosure o f 100%guarantees inthe FY07 budget; strengthening ofbank
reconciliation functions across the government, and; initiating a project to strengthen the
functioning of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC).

55.     A new procurement act has been passed by Parliament in July 2006. This marks a
significant improvement o f the public procurement system by aligning it with best practice
procurement laws at the global level. To make it fully effective, the government now needs to
prepare and approve the implementation rules as soon as possible.

56.     Link to Development Support Credit (DSC). The Bank has been supporting
Government's reform agenda through a series o f DSCs, the first three o fwhich were approved by
the Board in 2003, 2004, and 2005.15 A fourth one is currently under preparation. The DSCs
support initiatives focusing on deepening governance reforms over time contributing to
accelerating the rate o f economic growth, employment creation and poverty reduction. An area
which lies outside the immediate domain o fthe DSCs i s railway sector reform. While the broader
reform programs supported under the DSCs are complementary, the railway sector needs focused
attention, as the scope o f the reform program i s too large and deep to be covered under an
umbrella operation. Inaddition, the Bank i s a new entrant inthe railway sector andits partnership
with ADB and JBIC requires a focused engagement on railways with GOB. In view o f this,
railway sector reforms havebeen kept outside the DSCs..

57.     Collaboration with other Development Partners. The proposed Credit is one o f the
flagship operations planned to be developed with the main CAS partners- ADB and JBIC. The
2006 CAS envisages that WB-ADB-JBIC would support the same Reform Matrix for BR and
link their investmentlending to progress inthe reform program (Fig 1, page 4, and Annex 4 for
details).

LessonsLearned
58.     The Bank has not had a lendingoperation inBangladesh's railway sector for manyyears.
Nevertheless, international experience suggests that improving the railway's governance
structure andmanagement capability is essential for improving railway operational and financial
performance, and ensuring infrastructure investments are effective. The past experience o f
railway reform in Bangladesh i s instructive on strategies for timing, legislation, and stakeholder
support. The following briefly highlight the relevant lessons for the Bangladesh railway reform


l5DSC I11was approved bythe Boardon December 1,2005.


                                                21

program from past reform efforts in Bangladesh, as well as from international experience, as
documented invarious World Bank and non-World Bank publications.

59.      Concessioningversus Corporatization. Several reform mechanisms have been applied to
reforming the railway sector over the last two decades across a spectrum o f countries, both
developing and developed.16 The choice o f reform instrument often has been determined by the
political situation and objectives of the reform program, as well as the initial conditions o f the
railway system. Most railway reforms in the 1990s in Latin America and Africa involved
concessioning to the private sector,17 while most railways in Eastern and Central Europe and
Asia reformed their railways through corporatization and remained within the public sector.'*
The current state o f BR is such that it may not attract credible private sector participation, unless
a firm commitment i s made by the government to invest substantially in infrastructure
improvement." Without the much-needed investment and PSO contracts, BR is unlikely to make
a turn around andincrease its market share inthe sector.

60.       The proposed reform program for Bangladesh Railway reflects the current political
understandingfor reform in the country. It i s essentially a public sector restructuring designed
to create a corporatized railway (i.e. 100percent state-owned enterprise). It does not envision that
the railways will be concessioned to the private sector, although there will be significant private
sector participation in a number o f areas.20 Choosing corporatization rather than concessioning
for reforming Bangladesh Railway is based on the fact that BR i s predominantly a passenger
railway services, and potential concessionaires are often reluctant to operate passenger services
that require public sector subsidy through Public Sector Obligation (PSO) contracts, in part
because o f the risks involved in securing subsidies when tariffs do not cover costs. There i s also
no current political consensus for concessioning the railways to the private sector within the
government and BR staff and management. Bangladesh reforms in other infrastructure sectors
(power sector and telecommunication) have generally entailed corporatization or creating a
parallel private sector participation, rather than outright privatization. Finally, Bangladesh's
regulatory framework for private sector participation in infrastructure is lacking, even for
concessions that involve only operations. This i s a serious limitation in Bangladesh's
infrastructure development strategy, which has also beennotedbythe CAS.


l6 The early reformers have been UK and New Zealand both o f which started with corporatization and later
concessionedtheir railway systems to the private sector.
l7
'*AFor
     notable exception i s SouthAfrica which opted for corporatization.
        a review o f results o f railway reforms in different countries, see recent papers published by the Transport
Anchor in the World Bank. For reform experience in Europe, See Paul Amos, Reform, Commercialization and
Private Sector Participation in Eastern Europe and CentralAsia, 2005. InAfrica, see Richard Bullock, Results of
Railway Privatization in Afiica, 2005.
l 9Railways withhightraffic risk andregulatory uncertainty generally attract lessprivate sector investment for
infrastructure. See for example, Bullock Results of Railway Privatization in Afiica, 2005
*' Although concessioning i s not contemplated at this time, the proposed reform will support the development o f a
policy for negotiated access, which would allow private sector rail service providers to invest inneeded rolling stock
and provide train services (e.g. for freight services between Dhaka and Chittagong or inWestern Bangladesh for the
transport o f coal and steel). A t the same time, once the corporatizationo fBRis completed, GOB may wishto partner
with some strategic investors for railways. Both of these types of regulatory reforms - direct competition andjoint
ownership - have been considered good alternatives to privatization. See Gomez-Ibanez Alternatives to
Privatization: TheOptionsfor Infrastructure Revisited 2006. World Bank draft mimeo.


                                                            22

61.       Challenges and Success of Corporate Governance in SOEs. SOEs in Bangladesh and
elsewhere have performed poorly. Therefore, corporatizing BR and turning it into an SOE could
result in the same performance problems as its current civil service status. However, recent
advances in corporate governance are helping to improve the performance o f SOEs in many
counties that have opted for keeping a large portion o f their SOE inthe public sector. The OECD
has developed a guideline for applying elements o f corporate governance from the private sector
to SOES.~'The proposed reform program applies some o f the more relevant provisions o f the
OECD guidelines, including those related to legal framework for SOEs, clarifying
responsibilities, transparency and financial reporting, and stakeholder participation in oversight.
The proposed reform program would also support internal restructuring and enhance human
resource incentives to improve the corporate governance and management o f the railways. Some
o f these reform elements have been implemented in Bangladesh's power sector and proved
successhl (see Box 3).

                                       Box 3: Power Sector CorDoratization inBaneladesh

To introduce commercial orientation inthe power sector, some functions and zones o f the sector were corporatized inthe 1990s.
Companies were formed inthe distribution, transmission and generation sectors. This allowed unbundlingo f the sector vertically
along its functional lines. Corporatization supported the companies to run on commercial principles with minimumgovernment
interference. Two corporatization success stories in the Bangladesh Power Sector are the Power Grid Company o f Bangladesh
Ltd.(PGCB) andthe DhakaElectric Supply Company Ltd.(DESCO).

PGCB is a Government owned corporate entity formed in 1996 as per the Company's Act 1994 to manage the transmission
function o f the sector. It wheels electricity from power plants to distribution entities against a wheeling charge. PGCB has
demonstrated its ability to run a company governed by its Board of Directors and has successfdly managed undue
government'political interference in its functions and at the same time has expanded its transmission lines. It has now emerged as
a strong corporate entity and is able to attract funding from donors and financial institutions.

DESCO i s a similar success story, managing power distribution in two important zones in Dhaka      - Mirpur    and Gulshan. These
zones were previously served by DESA and hadvery high system loss and low collection rate. After taking over these assets from
DESA, DESCO were able to improve efficiency in these zones. It has successfully reduced system loss (inFY 2006 system loss
was about 16%) and has substantially increased revenue collection. Even with the same tariff structure as o f DESA, DESCO has
been making profit for the last two years. DESCO could also outsource its commercial operations with a strong supervision from
its executives.

Both PGCB and DESCO have ofloaded their shares inthe Bangladesh stock markets. This proves their ability to attract funding
even from the private sector.

By contrast, the power utilities that remained under government administrative structure, including Bangladesh Power
Development Board (BPDB) and Dhaka Electric Supply Authority (DESA), continue to suffer from high-level o f inefficiencies
and excessive system loss and low collection rate, which continue to drain public resources. InFY 2005 Net Loss o f BPDB was
about Tk 6 billion and DESA has become a bankrupt utility,dependent on Government o fBangladesh's budgetary support.




62.       Sustainable Reforms will be undertaken ifthe benefits of reform outweigh the costs. In
the past, railway reforms inBangladesh were perceived to have small and distant benefits, which
were not sufficient to motivate lasting reform efforts in the face o f high, immediate costs of
reform, such as resistance from trade unions and passengers. Because o f changes in Bangladesh
and within BR including the recent labor retrenchment, the costs o f reform have been reduced,
and the benefits o f improving railway governance and attracting large investment to the sector


   OECD Guidelines on Corporate Governance of State Owned Enterprises, 2005.


                                                                23

now outweigh the political economy costs, and the government i s well poised to carry out
reform.

63.     Clearly defined      authority and governance relationship between railway and
government to ensure the railway autonomy and improving performance. Inthe past, railway
boards lost authority because subsequent governments desired direct control o f railways to
pursue broader, macro-economic and policy goals. Governments have encroached on the boards'
autonomy by mandating tariffs for passengers and preferred freight customers, and by using the
railway to increase public employment. Interfering with management hurt railway finances and
mandated budget support, causing some Railway Boards to lose financial autonomy over time.
As an institution, governments did not endow railway boards with sufficient legal autonomy.
Ultimately, political realignments duringturbulent periods allowed governments to impose direct
control to support broad policy goals. Improving railway performance requires that the
government i s committed to reform and that it clearly defines BR's autonomy.

64.     Railway autonomy and reform implementation are only secure when supported by
legislation. When previous Bangladesh governments established railway boards by Ordinance,
board autonomy quickly eroded and subsequent governments easily imposed direct control
through administrative measures. Like most o f the transport sector, the legal basis for
government involvement in railways is antiquated. Bangladesh still uses the Railway Act o f
1890, but in fact, most governments dictate railway policy by administrative fiat. When the
permanence o freforms is not certain, stakeholders, particularly railway employees and managers,
need not accept reforms. Sustained autonomy and reform requires the government to build a
broad consensus and enact legislationthrough Parliament.

65.     Engaging Stakeholder in the reform process, especially employeesand railways user, is
essentialfor implementation of the reform program and minimizespolicy reversal. This should
be supported by an effective communication strategy and participation by all stakeholders to
buildconstituents for reform. Past governments have been unable to reform the railway because
resistant stakeholders, including railway employees and passengers, stalled implementation or
pressured the government to avoid reform altogether. While in the past, reform faced the
challenge o f reluctant employees, successful staff retrenchment inthe late 1990s has reduced the
needto cany out large-scale retrenchment inthe immediate future. The government therefore can
secure their cooperation and engage them in the reform process. BR senior management and
MOC officials have begun communication and outreach with the labor unions and managers.
Employee's job security i s not at risk with the new scheme, but it would give them the
opportunity to be rewardedfor good work.22

66.     Similarly, although streamlining passenger service might improve performance on critical
routes, low-income passengersinsist on low fares and service on lines that maybe uneconomical.
Transparent accounting proposed under the reform program would allow the government to
continue supporting socially important services through Public Service Obligation (PSO)
payments to BR, and improve incentives for efficient passenger service. Implementing reforms


  Ina Railway Reform Seminar organized jointly by the Bank and BR inJune 2006, the labor unions were hlly
representedandparticipatedinthe discussion o fthe proposedreformprogram


                                                      24

requires convincing passengers that they will not be worse off because o f the reforms. An
effective communication strategy and participation by all stakeholders i s therefore essential to
buildconstituents for reform.

ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNING

67.     The analytical underpinning for the proposed railway reform operation includes various
GOB, World Bank and ADB publications on the Bangladeshi economy and railway sector,
including: Bangladesh's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2006), National Land Transport
Policy (2004), Integrated Multi-modal Transport Policy (draft 2005), and the World Bank's
Bangladesh Country Assistance Strategy (2006). In addition, the Bank carried out stand-alone
studies, including the Rapid Assessment on Rail, Ports and IWT (2003), which developed the
Bank's reengagement strategy for these sub-sectors. Other diagnostic work carried out as part o f
the preparation o f the proposed operation included: Comparative Study on Road and Rail
Transport (2006), and Political Economy and Evolution of Governance Reform in Bangladesh
Railway (2006).

68.     The World Bank team also consulted extensively within Bangladesh including with
government, railways, and private sector and labor union representatives. Together with
Bangladesh Railway, the Bank organized a Seminar on the fbture o f Bangladesh Railway to learn
the lessons o f international experience in railway reforms and to discuss and consult on the
proposed reform program with all stakeholders, including railway labor union, managers, private
sector, development partners and government policy makers. The team members gained firsthand
knowledge by meetingwith BR and government officials in Bangladesh on multiple occasions.
World Bank practitioners in many areas including Transport, Social Impact Analysis,
Environment, and other areas contributed to the analysis. The team used Bangladesh Railway
publications and data to understand the current state o f operations. Team members collected
original data on the transport sector including the trucking and passenger bus industries and on
the Dhaka-Chittagong corridor. For a long term perspective on railway governance and
operations in Bangladesh, team members reviewed World Bank and ADB documents over the
last several decades. Various World Bank and outside experts reviewed the analysis and
document to ensure the analysis and recommendations were o fhighquality.


   VI.    THE PROPOSEDBANGLADESHRAILWAY PROGRAMMATICREFORM
                             DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT


OperationDescription
69.     The Development Objective of the proposed operation is to improve the governance
structure within which Bangladesh Railway operates, addressing both governance relationship
between GOB and BR on the one hand, and corporate governance and management structure
within the railways organization on the other. The implementation o f the reform program will
help to (a) clarifL relationship between GOB and BR and increase BR's autonomy and
accountability, (b) improve corporate governance and management structure within BR so that
BR is more commercially and market oriented, and (c) create an environment conducive to


                                               25

increase investment in railway operations. These would in turn yield more efficient rail
operations and services to users, improve financial performance, and provide the basis for a
growingmarket share for the railway sector.

70.    The proposedBR-DPC i s the first o f two operations designed to support, inpartnership
with ADB and JBIC, the implementation of GOB'Srailway reform program through a budgetary
support operation. The first DPC will be for US$40 million and planned for approval by the
Bank on October 19, 2006 following the filfillment o f the prior actions for the first DPC. The
Second BR-DPC with a proposed loan amount o fUS$60 million is planned for Fiscal Year 2009
andwill be approved after the triggers for the Second DPC have beenmet.

Policy Areas
71.     The reform program has five interrelated components: ,(a) restructuring BR by line of
business organization, (b) transforming BR into a corporate entity, (c) improving cost accounting
and financial reporting, (d) improving human resource planning and incentives, and (e)
improving operating and maintenance performance. These are discussed below in detail and
summarized in the preliminary Operational Policy Matrix in Annex 3, which covers actions
through 2011inthese reform areas.

72.    Restructuring BR by Line of Business (LOB). The aim o f this reform component is to
focus BR's resources (staff and assets) on serving its customers by creating an organizational
structure along lines o f business. The railway's freight and passenger businesses and other
business lines and cost centers will be managed separately so that each business would have a
separate business plan and set o f accounts and financial reports. Separate financial data will
allow LOB managers and government decision makers to understandthe cost o f providing each
service, so that rational decisions can be made about what services should be provided, how
much service should be provided, how the services should be priced and what subsidy must be
provided for non-compensatory services. The line o f business organization should not be layered
on top o f BR's existing functionaVgeographic organizational structure; rather, it should be
reflected through the organizational hierarchy down to the field level. In addition, this reform
component will separate core services from non-core services. The latter include education and
health service provided by BR to its staff and a large real-estate holding. Once determined, the
non-core services andholdings will be privatized, outsourced or handed over to the private sector
or to more suitable thirdpartyinthe public sector.

73.     Transform BR into Government-Owned Corporate Entity. The aim o f this reform
component i s to give BR the management autonomy that it needs to manage the railway
efficiently. Since BR's primary traffic i s loss making passenger service, it will continue to
require financial support from the government. However, this government support will be
definedina public service contract, which also will specify the services that the government will
buywith that support. Within the context o f this service contract and for all freight services, BR
will have the authority to take financial and operational decisions on a much wider scale, and
have the autonomy to set freight tariffs at compensatory rates. The relationship between the
corporatized BR and GOB will be governed by a Performance Contract between the two parties.
The contract will specify delegation o fpowers, subjects requiringgovernment approval, PSO and



                                               26

contracting, financing mechanism, performance targets, auditing procedures and other areas of
interest to both parties. This will be hrther detailed in the legislation creating the corporate
entity.

74.     Improve Cost Accounting and Financial Reporting. The aim of this reform component
is to give BR management and the GOB the information needed to manage the railway. Currently
BR accounts are maintained under government accounting rules, which specify modified cash
basis accounting (no depreciation). Costs and profitability by service are not available. The
existing accounting system is oriented toward control, rather than information. This will need to
change to support the reform components on LOB structure, BR management autonomy, and
humanresource management (incentives to staff). The revisedaccounting system shouldprovide
financial reports and budget reports by LOB and will be published externally andmade available
to the public, which would contribute to make BR a more transparentorganization.

75.     Improve Human Resources Management. The aim o f this reform component is to give
BR management the human resources management tools it needs to implement the LOB and
corporate management reforms. In addition, the reform program will significantly improve the
working environment o f BR and afford BR staff better incentives and career prospects through
better training and upwardmobility. The proposed reform programs and the benefits would need
to be communicated effectively andproactively to BR staff.

76.     Operational Improvement. The aim o f this reform component i s to support improvement
inthe efficiency o fBRoperations. This will include setting upmonitoring systems to collect and
analyze data related to operational efficiency, investing in computer systems that support
operational efficiency, updating BR's operating practices and standards. In addition,
consideration will be given to install an online BR-wide comprehensive computer based system
with built-in optimizing programs to improve all aspects o f operations. Finally, this reform
component will include increasing the maintenance budget to meet BR's maintenance
requirements. BR has prepared three-year maintenance rolling plan, and GOB has committed to
provide the maintenance fundingrequirements as part o fthe three-year rolling plan.

ExpectedInstitutionalChanges

77.     The proposed approach for BR restructuring is based on similar models successfully
implemented in other countries in the last 15 years, transforming the railways from government
department to market-oriented companies. The reform program is aimed at changing the current
status o f BR from an administrative government structure, into a government-owned and
customer-oriented corporate entity. The reform program is a very complex process, and takes
time. It needs to be supported by new legal and institutional frameworks, improved incentive
structure directed at behavioral changes o f managers and employees and new responsibility and
accountabilityrelationship between government andrailway. All these aspects are covered bythe
proposed five interrelated components of the reformprogram.

78.     The LOB restructuringi s designed to fundamentally change how BR operates. Each LOB
will have its own bottom line responsibility. Key performance indicators will be established to
evaluate the performance o f the individual LOB as well as o f BR as a whole against its assigned



                                               27

targets. Heads o f the different LOB will be held accountable for achieving the key performance
indicators. As the LOB structure is fundamentally aligning the different business units o f BR
with the different market segments, it will make BRmore commercially orientedthan its current
structure. Inaddition, the outsourcing o f non-core services would improve the productivity o fBR
and financial performance, as it would free up resources for BR to focus on its core services, and
many o f the non-core services could be more cost-effectively provided by an outside entity.
Finally, BR's large real estate and property holdings would be managed efficiently and
transparently, and contribute to BR's revenue, which would in turn support its operations and
reduce its overall losses.

79.     The financial management reforms will improve the financial governance system within
BR. The reforms will include preparing an asset register so that there is a true picture o f BR's
assets rather than just historical cost valuation and inclusion o f non-economic assets. A new
financial management and accounting system will be implemented so that it can support
decision-making for the LOB structure and give information on costs and revenues for each
railway service in a manner consistent with international accounting standards and best practices
inthe railway industry, while satisfylng the government's statutory reporting requirements. The
information generated by the new system will also be used to calculate a new PSO payment
mechanism. This will ensure that the PSO mechanism is actually used to cover only PSO
services instead o f being misused to cover general deficits. The accounting system will also be
usedto determine the internalpricing that the different LOBwill charge each other as well as the
tariff structure for railway users. This will improve transparency and thus improved financial
governance.

Conditionsfor SuccessfulImplementationofthe ReformProgram

80.     A stakeholder analysis carried out as part of the preparation o f the Program Document
reveals that the government could secure the success o f the proposedreform program ifit clearly
defines BR's autonomy, engages stakeholders in the reform process, and builds a modem legal
framework for the railway sector. A successful reform program also requires government
commitment and follow through and railway management capacity to implement the reform
program. To ensure success o f the proposed reform program, the design o f the reform includes:
(a) carrying out reform actions through legislation to firmly commit government, (b) engaging
stakeholders in the reform process (BR has started a communication strategy to explain the
benefits of the reform program to employees); (c) undertaking maintenance o f rail and rolling
stock to provide quick benefits to passengers and ensure support from passengers (maintenance
works would also improve rail speed and reduce derailment, which would improve the overall
image o f BR with users); and (d) making changes in Human Resource management that would
strengthen BR's management for implementation of the reform program (The government has
created a team o f senior BRmanagement to oversee the implementationo fthe reformprogram).

81.     Sequencing and Incremental Approach. The reform component is properly sequenced
with different reform elements building on previous steps, and follows an incremental, yet
irreversible, approach for implementing the reform program. The first step inthe reform program
i s to restructure BR by LOB structure, followed by instituting a new computerized financial
management and accounting system for each LOB and BR as whole, and improving human


                                                28

resource planningand incentives. Corporatization would come at the end of the reform program.
This i s because prior experience in Bangladesh suggests that corporatization alone would not
guarantee success in improving performance. Once railway becomes autonomous, the
government's ability to promote internal restructuring could be minimized and there i s a risk that
the railways could be all together neglected, or the reforms would be completely reversed to
bring control o f the railways. Therefore, it is essential to change the incentive structure and
behaviors o f railway mangers and staff before corporatization in order to ensure momentum and
prevent reversals. Implementing LOB management and financial restructuring, instituting
performance incentives for staff, and outsourcing non-core services, are therefore critical first
steps to preparing BR for becoming a successful govemment-owned corporate entity. This
sequencing has also the full support and ownership o f the reform program by BR and GOB, as it
would ensure success for the railway organization.



                          VII.    OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION

Poverty and Social Impacts
82.     Improving the governance structure and efficiency o f the railway sector is expected to
have a direct and positive impact on growth and help improve the quality o f life for all sections
o f the population, including the poor. Efforts to enhance the investment climate and empower the
poor are two key pillars o f the PRSP and the CAS. Additionally, in line with the government's
reform agenda being supported by the Bank through a series o f DSC's, governance reforms and
private sector investment in infrastructure will contribute to employment generation and poverty
reduction.

83.     GOB has been working with ADB to undertake institutional and labor reforms in the
railway sector, which has already resulted in significant staff retrenchment, reducing BR staff by
about 20,000 through voluntary severance packages offered to employees. Although further
major staff retrenchment i s not expected, proposed reforms inthe short-term may result in some
staff redeployment through optimization o f labor input and skill upgrading. To mitigate any
potential social impacts associated with the restructuring process, appropriate social safety nets
will be identified, including voluntary severance packages for affected staff. Overall, the reform
program seeks to improve the working environment o f BR and offer staff improved incentives
andcareer growththrough upwardmobility.

84.     Operational reforms inthe railway sector can have distributional impacts, especially those
related to employment and wages, passenger tariff increases, service quality and access. To more
systematically analyze the link between proposed policy reform and their poverty and social
impacts, a Social Impact Assessment (SIA) will be carried out to identify the range o f social
impacts (both positive and negative) and examine the distributional impacts o f the reform
program on different stakeholders, with a particular focus on the poor and vulnerable. Specially,
the SIA will: (i)  assess whether the policies supported by the reform are likely to have social
consequences, and what processes, if any, BR has for addressing adverse social impacts; (ii)
assess key social risks, including stakeholder groups (i.e. labor unions) that may block
implementation of the reforms and identify social risk management systems; (iii)define


                                                 29

communication and outreach strategies to inform BR staff and managers on the benefits and
costs of the proposedreforms; and (iv) assess current institutional arrangementsand capacity for
addressing social issues and measures to enhance capacity to effectively manage them. Since
ADB is also inthe process ofpreparinga complementary railway developmentprogram, the SIA
will coordinate with the social studies beingcarried out by the ADB to harmonize social impact
and social safeguard mitigation strategies. This collaboration will be especially useful in
developing a common framework to address social safeguard issues related to issues related to
land acquisition and resettlement to ensure that due consideration is paid to them when BR is
transformed into a corporate entity andto facilitate future investmentsinthe sector. BR will carry
out an SIA and establish a Railways Environmental and Social Unit with 2 environmental and 2
social specialists byJanuary 2009.

85.     Communication Strategy. As part o f the               reform program preparation       and
implementation, BR will develop a communication strategy to inform stakeholders, particularly
employees and users, o f the benefits and costs o f the reform program. BRhas already carried out
a number o f meetings and consultations with the labor unions and has secured their participation
and support for the reform. This communication strategy would needto be sustained throughout
the reform program. BR will engage the services o f a communications firm to help it with the
communication strategy and outreach campaign.

86.     Consultation and participation. The Government o f Bangladesh has placed a strong
emphasis on consultations with stakeholder groups affected by its programs. The preparation o f
the Bangladesh PRSP, including discussions on the transport sector, were underpinned by a
strong consultative process with a broad range o f stakeholders and civil society organizations.
Similarly, the CAS has also been prepared in a consultative manner, as were the GOB'SNLTP
andIMTP.For tracking the reformprocess instate owned enterprises, the World BankandDFID
have facilitated efforts by the Ministry o f Finance to establish a joint Safety Net Committee,
which includes the participation o f groups directly affected by the reforms. The Ministries o f
Finance and Communication, along with Bangladesh Railways, will be establishing similar
consultative committees to provide a more systematic process for communication and
dissemination of information about the reform program, especially to directly affected groups.
Not only will these committees provide outreach to key stakeholder groups, but also serve as a
feedback mechanismon the views and concerns o fthese groups to the government.

87.    For the proposed reforms, initial consultations have already been carried out with relevant
trade unions, BR staff as well as a random sample o f railway passengers. These consultations
have provided the basis for developing the guidelines and principles o f BR's communication
strategy which aims to identify the needs andpriorities o f different stakeholder groups, especially
BR staff, trade unions and passengers, and to respond to: (i)issues o f social inclusion, poverty
andvulnerability, (ii) risks for potentially vulnerable groups; (iii) required, design o f
                       mitigate                                               if
comprehensive safety net program e.g. counseling, retraining, job placement and access to MlW
self employment program; and(iv) developing mechanisms for transparent social tracking system
for monitoring the impact o f reform program. GOB has agreed to carry out a Social Impact
Assessment, which will be based on an ongoing consultative process.




                                                30

Implementation,Monitoringand Evaluation
88.     The overall coordination of the reforms will be the responsibility o f both the Ministryof
Finance (MOF) and Ministryof Communications (MOC).

89.     MOFMOC Level: A Steering Committee, to be co-chaired by Secretaries for MOF and
MOC, will be established to provide overall guidance for the implementation o f reform and
facilitate coordination across government departments that have a bearing on the reform
program, including MOC, Planning Commission, Ministry o f Establishment, and Ministry o f
Shipping (Chittagong Port Authority), ERD and BR.Inaddition, a focal person within M O C will
be assigned to look after the day-to-day implementation of the reform program, liaise with
Railways and facilitate decision making within the ministry. The Steering Committee will have a
compactwith BRfor the implementation o fthe reformprogram.

90.     BR Level: A ReformImplementationTeam has been established inBR and is headedby
an Additional Director General. The team will be responsible for the implementation o f the
reform. It will be supported by consultants throughout the preparation and implementation of the
program. The team will liaise with various departments in BR and labor unions during the
implementation o f the reform. It will have effective communication strategies to discuss the
benefits andcosts o fthe reformprogram with BR staff and field managers.

91.      Credit Processingtimeline:

    0    Concept Review Meeting: June 13,2006

    0    Regional Operations Committee Review Meeting: August 28,2006

    0   Appraisal andNegotiations: September 3-14,2006

    0   Board Presentation: October 19,2006.

92.     Prior Actions for the first DPC. The first Bangladesh Railway DPC was negotiated
between GOB and the Bank on the fulfillment o fthe prior actions summarized below.

   (i)    Formal adoption and approval o fLines o fBusiness (LOB) structure byGOB;

   (ii)   Appointment o fheads o fLOBs;

   (iii)Assignment     o f key staff to LOBs to support LOB heads and work with reform
          consultant inimplementing LOB structure;

   (iv)   Ministry o f Finance's endorsement o f Ministry o f Communications' request for an
          increase in Bangladesh Railway's maintenance fhding requirement in line with
          Bangladesh Railway's three-year Medium-term ExpenditureFramework;

93.     The Prior Actions are critical and substantial steps for GOB to start the implementationo f
the reformprogram, and once set inmotionwill create a reformmomentum withinBRandGOB.



                                                31

The LOB restructuring would change the incentive structure within BR, and by focusing BR
managers on service provision, rather than technical production, would ensure behavioral
changes that are essential for a sustainable reform. The permanence of the LOB restructuring is
assured by GOB'S appointment of LOB heads and assigning staff to carry out the reform
program. Committing managers to the new structure early in the process establishes proponents
for reform within the organization. In addition, GOB commitment for railway recovery is
demonstrated by its agreement to increase fundingfor railway maintenance.

94.     To support these Prior Actions, the government has also confirmed its plans for
organizational reform and reaffirming its policy to transform BR into a government owned
corporate entity through the DevelopmentPolicy Letter (Annex 1).

95.      The same Prior Actions are the conditions for approval o f ADB's US$430 million multi-
tranche loan, and JBIC's US$SO million loan. However, tranche releases and disbursements from
ADB and JBIC are linkedto progress ofreform, and thus ensuringthe momentum ofthe reform
program andpreventingbacksliding. The timing for the first DPC is coordinated with ADB's and
JBIC's investmentloans to ensure the overall success o fthe multi-donor modernizationeffort for
BR andthereformprogramis maintained.

96.      Triggersfor the Second DPC. The Second DPC in the programmatic series is proposed
i s planned for FY09. It will be negotiated with GOB upon the completion o f the triggers
summarized below. The details o f the triggers and reform actions are provided in the Policy
Matrix inAnnex 3.

    (i)   Reorganization o f BR by LOB completed and all BR staff assigned to positions in the
    approved structure.

    (ii)  Non-core services identified, and outsourcing/divesture plandeveloped and started.

    (iii)Architecture/model foranewaccountingandfinancialmanagementsystemdeveloped,
    and produces BR's financial statements inconformity with international accounting standards
    and best practices in the railway industry and also enables restatement o f these financial
    statementsto ones that conform to government reportingrequirements.

   (iv)   Passenger services that needpublic service obligation (PSO) subsidies identified, and a
   mechanism to calculate andpay PSO subsidies from government to BR implemented.

   (v)    A new internal pricing structure for the services provided by the individual LOB to
   other LOB (infrastructure access charge, utilization o f assets, services inworkshops, traction
    services) implemented.

   (vi)   Satisfactory implementation o f performance agreement between BR and M O C starting
   FY2008 as an interim governance structure for clarifylng responsibilitiesand accountability.

   (vii) Performance-based incentive structure and accountability measures for key BR
   management personnel formulated, and implemented after the transformation o f BR into a
   corporate entity i s approved.


                                                32

    (viii) The agreed BR's three-year maintenance plan implemented, and the expenditure
    requirementallocated.

97.      The implementation o f the actions to fulfill the Second DPC triggers will start
immediately. ADB under its Asian Development Fund loan is providing US$30 million to
support the implementation o f the reform program, including technical assistance services and
information systems and equipment required for the implementation o f the reform program.
Additional resources from the Bank and JBIC would also be available to support some elements
o f the implementation o f the reform program as needed. Regardless o f the financing sources, the
development partners and BR will jointly review all consultant reports and outputs and systems
to ensure consistency and enhance the development partnership (Annex 4, Memorandum o f
Understanding).

98.      The early implementation o f the reform actions would allow GOBBR and the
development partners to make changes to the triggers to adapt to new circumstances and the
implementation lessonswould inform the final design o f the triggers andreform actions.

99.      Monitoring and Evaluation framework will be based on the Operation Policy Matrix
(Annex 3). In addition, outcome indicators and targets will be used to assess progress in the
overall performance o f the reform program as a whole are provided below. The development
partners in this operation, ADB, WB and JBIC, will have a common Reform Implementation
Monitoring Framework that will be usedjointly by BR and the development partners to review
the implementation progress o f the reform program on a quarterly basis. The development
partners will also field joint supervision missions to monitor progress. BR will be required to
provide data necessary to complete the review. A Memorandum o f Understanding (MOU)23
among the development partners will underpinthe partnership agreement for implementation of
the reformprogram.




               Indicators                                                        End-of-ProgramIndicators(201ly4
                                                (2004 -2005)
                                                  Baseline          %Change

Passengerkm[million]                                 4,164            10%                      4,561

Ton-km [million]                                      817              5%                       858

ContainerTraffic (TEUs)                             71,481          30 50%
                                                                       -                  90,000 - 100,000
Labor productivity(calculatedby total
passenger-km+total ton-!an divided by total        131,078           50%
number ofemployeesfor the core services)                                                      -200,000




23A draft MOUhasbeen discussed among all development partners andwill be signed once all loans havebeen
approved.
24Indicators to be achieved after the completion of the DPCprogram and investment projects by donors.


                                                          33

  Asset utilization:
  (a) Freight:                                             (a>                                        (4
  Net-ton-kilometer per wagon-day                     (BG)" 644            (BG)(a)25%             (BG) 805
  (calculatedby total ton-Wtotal wagons in                                 (MG) 30%               (MG) 205
  fleeU365)                                           (MG)** 158

  (b) Passenger: Average number of                                                                    (b)
  passengersper vehicle-day                                (b)             (BG)(b)25%              (BG) 20
  (calculatedby total passenger trips/total             (BG) 16            (MG) 25%                (MG) 24
  coaches4 wheeled equivalent/365);                    (MG) 19

  (c) Locomotive:                                                            (c)                      (c)
  Train-!un per locomotive per day (calculated             (c)             (BG) 25%               (BG) 200
  as total train Wtotal locomotives in                 (BG) 162
                                                       (MG) 183            (MG) 25%               (MG) 230



  total revenue                                           62%                                        70%

~~Working (Operating) ratio (defined as total
       ~




  annual operating expenses dividedby total              127.6%                                     100%
  annual operatingrevenue)
  Improveduser satisfactionofrail system        First user satisfactionto              Seconduser satisfactionat the end of
  (user satisfactionsurvey will be carried out be carried out during first                         program
  beforeand after reformprogram                 year of implementation
  implementation)                                                         I          I



  FiduciaryAspects

  FinancialManagement

  100.       Over the last several years, GOB has been addressing key weaknesses in financial
  management identified in the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), through a
  series o f reform programs supported by DFID, World Bank and a few other development
  partners. Recent reform initiatives include: (a) separation o f the auditing and accounting
  functions makingthe Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG) independent o f the accounting
  function; (b) introduction o f a Medium-Term Budgetary Framework (MTBF) in four ministries
  inFY06, includingMinistryofCommunication (railways' line ministry)andplannedaddition of
  another four in FY07; (c) significant developments in computerization, which has led to
  production o f monthly accounts within a period o f five weeks compared to previous lag o f six
  months; (d) outsourcing o f internal audit function in large ministries (e) training the government
  audit and accounting officials at home and abroad on public financial management and (f)
  reduction by the Public Accounts Committee o f the Parliament o f the backlog o f audited
  accounts for its review. The government ,in collaboration with the development partners took
  measures to sustain the progress achieved and looked ahead to identify the gaps and address
  those on a priority basis.

  101.        A joint World Bank,DFID and GOB review o fthe institutional arrangements for Public
  Expenditure, Financial Management and Procurement completed in June 2005 revealed that
  Bangladesh's public expenditure institutions need to be significantly strengthened. The review
  that was carried out under Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA)
  Performance Measurement Framework also confirmed that links in the public financial


                                                               34

accountability chain in Bangladesh continue to be weak. Internal and external controls remain
weak, as reflected in the lack o f accounting information in line ministries, delays in the
publication o f audited reports, unsatisfactory quality of the external audit function, and
ineffective Parliamentary oversight o f the whole budget process. Though GOB has taken several
steps to improve its public financial management and procurement systems and the overall
trajectory o f change has beenpositive, the pace o fprogress has been slower than anticipated. The
key challenges that remain are: (a) greater flexibility to ministries inthe managemento f budget
implementation; (b) strengtheningthe internal control system, (c) strengthening the accounting
and reporting mechanisms to obtain timely, regular, adequate and reliable information; (d)
improving the quality o f audit and its impact; (e) developing relevant knowledge, aptitude,
competence and skills o f civil servants; and (f) enhancing implementation capacity of PFM
institutions.

102.     The World Bank's CAS for Bangladesh (2006-09) sets four economic management and
governance related benchmarks for access to development policy lending, including satisfactory
progress on the annual benchmarks to be established under the PEFA PerformanceMeasurement
Framework. The Bank has been working with the government to develop a detailed action plan,
aimed at improving Bangladesh's Public Financial Management ratings over the medium term.
The recently approved GOB document on "PFM Vision & Medium Term Rolling Action Plan"
develops time-bound reform actions and remedial measures to improve financial management
and accountability. Among the reform actions proposed are measures aimed at strengthening line
ministry's financial management function; supporting commercial accounting for Bangladesh
Railway, Telephone Board and Post Offices; establishment o f Government Financial
Management Information System, developing human resource strategy in PFM; adopting
InternationalPublic Sector Accounting Standards; and strengthening parliamentary oversight.

103.     The government and the development partners agreed to launch a joint mission in
November 2006 to enhance the government's reform agenda under a comprehensive PFM
Reform Program to be supported by the Bank and the other development partners active in the
PFM arena. The proposed PFM Reform Program will establish annual benchmarks under PEFA
Framework. Achievements towards improved PFM performance will be measured through
periodic assessment o f progress on the reform actions against annual benchmarks. The existing
level o f PFM performance together with the positive trajectory o f changes andthe government's
commitment to reforms provide an adequate PFM environment to support the proposed DPC
operation.

Financial Management Practices in BR

104.     Although the proceeds from this operation would go to the general budget, not to BR, a
financial management assessment o f BR was carried out since there will be large in flows o f
resources to BR as part o f the multi-donor railway program support in the near future. The
review was conducted through desk review o f information received from and discussions held
with BR's FM staff and a review o f ADB's report on the study o f "The Current Accounting
System o f Bangladesh Railway" undertaken in October 2003 under TA 3491-BAN that provides
useful information on the BR's accounting practices. An Additional Director General (ADG)
appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) looks after BR's financial


                                               35

management functions through a well-structured decentralized FM organization. BR's
accounting i s geared primarily to the requirements of government control of cash revenue and
cash expenditure and at the same time attempting to meet the conditions of commercial
accounting. Its existing chart of accounts i s not supportive of producing accounting data for
financial analysis and decision-making. BR owns a huge amount of real estate but due to poor
asset recording and management system, its control on identification, possession and use of such
assets i s very limited. BR being a government department, its budget is incorporated in the
National Budget.BR submitsits annual financial accounts to the Controller General of Accounts
for incorporation inthe Finance Accounts o fthe Republic.

105.    BR has a large number o f outstanding audit objections and there are huge backlogs on
following up Public Accounts Committee (PAC) recommendations. The Bank will work with BR
to develop an implementation planto resolve the most current audit objections - i.e. those raised
in last three years and to expedite compliance of PAC recommendations including a system to
track the progress in implementation. Since, the issues raised inthe audit reports would indicate
existence of control weakness inBR, the Bankwill engage a short term consultant to undertake a
study to understand BR's financial accountability and control environment and to identify the
weaknesses that need to be addressed as part o f the reform program. Such study would look into
internal control, reconciliation and safeguards mechanism in place in respect of revenue
collection, movement o f cash from the stations, deposits to bank and accounting for revenues as
also the internal control arrangements in respect o f financial transaction processing and
disbursements.

106.    The railway reform program supported under the proposed Credit includes key actions to
improve the financial management and accounting practices o f BR. The ADB will provide
financing for consultancy services and the computer information system required for the
implementation o f the reform as part of its first multi-tranche loan to BR. The main reform areas
includedinthe Policy Matrix, on Financial Management include:

    0   Developing an Architecturehtodel for a new accounting and financial management
        system that will produce BR's financial statements in conformity with the accounting
        standards internationally accepted in the railway industry and conforming to government
        reportingrequirements.

    0   Completing a BR asset registry with all BR assets to be identified, revalued and recorded
        in an asset register showing assets owned by each Line of Business (LOB). The asset
        registry should also identify the assets owned byBR but are not inits occupation andthe
        financing agreement should contain a provision for the BRhorrower's obligation to take
        administrative/ legal actions to recover the possession.

107.    The above reform actions are included as triggers for the Second DPC and ADB's tranche
release conditions for investment loans. Specific actions to achieve the reforms are detailed inthe
Policy Matrix (Annex 3) and inthe terms-of-reference for the Reform Consultant to be financed
byADB. As part the reform implementation, before BRis transformed into a government-owned
corporate entity, a comprehensive independent audit o f its financial affairs including verification
o fproperties, assets and stocks will be carried out by a private auditor andthe findings addressed


                                                 36

prior to corporatization. Finally, the legislation for transforming BR into a govemment-owned
corporate entity will include the provisions for the corporate BRs financial statements to be
audited by an independent private auditor and recruitment of experts with needed skills in the
positions o f ChiefFinancial Officer and some other key officials.

ProcurementAspects

108.    The World Bank CAS for Bangladesh (2006-09) puts governance at center stage andwill
attempt, through its various instruments and in collaboration with other development partners
and the government, to strengthen key institutions that are responsible for ensuring good
governance. Procurement, being an integral part o f governance, will be the subject of reforms
both at sector and core levels. Likewise, the PRSP, though it does not address procurement
directly, includes strategic goals relating to good governance that are applicable to procurement,
including enhancing efficient use o f resources, promoting transparency and accountability in
resource use, promoting local governance, tackling corruption, and implementing the
procurement regulations.

109.    Inefficiencies inpublic procurement system create enormous wastage o f money and were
identified in the 2000 CAS as the single most significant issue affecting public sector
performance. The Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR 2002) highlighted the key
areas o f weaknesses in the system. Since that time, important strides have been made in
improving the legal framework for procurement and establishing a structure for managing the
function through implementation o f the Public Procurement Reform Project financed by the
Bank.The government made good progress inbringingabout a systemic change bymandating a
uniform procurement policy across all public sector entities (Public Procurement Regulations,
PPR 2003), and considerable progress has been made increating the foundations for an effective
public procurement system.

110.    Inorder to provide more legal protection and build inmore confidence from the public
and the business community in the system, the Parliament has passed the Procurement Act in
July 2006. Despite some improvement in the legal framework, actual implementation o f the
regulations i s slow and little progress has been made to generate tangible outcomes on the
ground. For sustainability o f the current procurement reform program, the proposed Second
Public Procurement Reform project (financed by the Bank and expected for FY2007), will
address the implementation challenges. It will have four major components with interventions in
the following areas: monitoring and evaluation, procurement management capacity, e-
government procurement, and behavioral change and social accountability

111. Although the proposed operation has no specific physical investments financed from the
DPC, improving procurement capacity and practices within BR will become important in order
to ensure the efficacy o f the overall reform and investment program. A preliminary procurement
review was carried out to assess procurement practices within BR and developed actions for
improvement. BR, being part o f the overall government institutional framework, has the same
systemic deficiencies inprocurement practices. The assessment carried out indicates that though
BR started applying the PPR 2003, there are variations in compliance with the regulations.
Working with other donors and the government, the proposed DPC will support BR to


                                                 37

implement the regulatory provisions of the PPR 2003 to ensure that the deficiencies in
procurement practices are rectified before BR undertakes significant procurement activities for
the planned multi-donor funded investment programs. In particular, in consultation with BR
officials, the proposed DPC will support the development of specific actions to address the
systemic issues inprocurement detailed below and summarized in the Policy Matrix (Annex 3).
These activities will also be closely coordinated with and supported by the Bank-financed
Proposed Second Procurement ReformProject.

112.     At present, BR is following PPR 2003. GOB will continue its support to BR for
enhancing its capability and efficiency for timely award of contract and information disclosure,
as requiredby the PPR. This will ensure a faster procurement process andbetter governance. One
o f the key actions that would be sought i s public information o f procurement through the
publication o f procurement notices and award o f contract in BR's website. This will include
publication o f contract award information, including the identity o f contract package, date o f
advertisement, number o f bids sold, number of submittedbids, number o f responsive bids, name
of the winning bidder and the price it offered, date o f notification o f award, date o f contract
signing, proposed completion date o f contract as well as briefdescription o fthe contract awarded
up to a contract amount o fBDT 10million or above. The improvement inprocurement practices
i s included in the policy matrix since it will ensure the overall governance improvement in BR
andwould be complementary to the reformprogramsupported under this Credit.

DisbursementandFiduciarvAspects
113.     Disbursement: Proceeds o f the Credit will be disbursed in a single tranche to a specific
deposit account o f the Ministryo f Finance established at Bangladesh Bank for this purpose; the
deposit account is part o f the country's official foreign exchange reserves. An amount equivalent
to the Credit proceeds will thenbe credited to an account of the Government to finance budgeted
expenditures. The Government will be required to provide a confirmation to the Bank that the
proceeds o f the Credit has been received inthe designated deposit account andthat an equivalent
amount in local currency has also been credited to an account o f the government available to
finance budgeted expenditures. Transactions and balances o f the Government account will be
hlly incorporated into the Government's accounting records and financial statements.
Disbursement will not be linked to any specific purchases andno procurement requirements will
be needed. If any portion o f the Credit proceeds i s used for ineligible purposes as defined by the
Development Credit Agreement, the International development Association (IDA) will require
the Borrower either to return that amount to the deposit account or refund the amount directly to
IDA. The Bank assessed that the above stated measures would provide adequate fiduciary
arrangement for the operation.

114.    Fiduciary Risk: The lMF Safeguard Assessment conducted in September 2002 concluded
that financial management in the Bangladesh Bank was weak. To enhance the safeguards
framework, the Bangladesh Bank has started strengthening its financial management with lMF
support and the IDA-financed Central Bank Strengthening Project. A timetable has been set for
the adoption by the Bangladesh Bank o f International Accounting Standards (IAS) as its
accounting framework. Starting from FY03, Bangladesh Bank had its financial statements
audited by audit firms having international affiliation, in full compliance with International



                                                  38

Standards on Auditing. Bangladesh Bank's FY 05 financial statements were audited jointly by
two firms that are associates of internally reputed firms. The auditors expressed unqualified
opinion and indicatedthat the financial statements were preparedinaccordance with U S and the
audit report did not indicate any weakness inforeign exchange management.

115.     The various diagnostics conducted by the Bank and other donors also acknowledge that
fiduciary risk inpublic spending in Bangladesh is high. GOB has taken several steps to address
the weaknesses. As outlined in the section on financial management, significant progress has
been made over the last few years to strengthen financial management and reduce fiduciary risks.
The GOB has continued its PFM reform plans, as evidenced by the ongoing DFID fbnded
Financial Management Reform Program (FMRP), which started in2003, and implementation of
other aspects o f the reform program described inthis Program Document. As a part o fthe review
o f Institutional Arrangements for public expenditure, financial management and procurement,
Bangladesh's PFM system was rated against internationally accepted indicators (PEFA). This
provides a usefbl framework to track progress towards improved PFM performance against
annual benchmarks that are inthe process o fbeingestablished.

EnvironmentalAspects
116.     The policy reforms supported by the proposed DPC will not cause any significant effect
on the country's environment and natural resources. Detailed screening o f the policy measures
undertaken during identification and preparation indicates no direct environmental impact.25
Proactive interventions to be supported under the proposed DPC will have a positive impact by
enhancing BR's capacity to mitigate negative environmental impacts andenhance positive effects
o f fbture investments and railway operations. Positive outcomes are also expected inthe form o f
introducing measures for better environmental management o f the operations o f the restructured
company.

117.    The analytical foundations to assess impacts o f the proposed operation include
Bangladesh's PRSP which explicitly recognizes the vulnerability o f poor to environmentalrisks,
and the Bangladesh Country EnvironmentalAnalysis (CEA) 2006, which reinforces this message
andhighlights the needto strengthen the institutional framework for environmentalmanagement
through improvements in environmental governance. In addition, the CEA points to the need o f
introducing economic incentives to complement regulatory requirements. Inthe case o f industry,
there is scope for this to be achieved through promotion o f pollution reduction, waste-
minimization and efficient use of resources. Overall, environmental management practice in
Bangladesh continues to be inadequate. Evidently, a number o f steps towards sustainable railway
operations must be defined prior to BR's corporatization to address the main areas o f
environmental concerns. Inthe near term, this will require a stronger regulatory oversight, inthe
mediumterm, a special effort within the sector to establish a framework for reconciling business
activities with environmental protection objectives and implementing a plan for improved
environmentalmanagement - as part o fthe operational improvement and efficiency reforms.

118.    Under the Bangladesh's Environment Preservation Rules (1995 plus amendments) the
M O C and BR are required to undertake an EA for any form o f projects with significant impacts


25Environmental Screening Matrix is available inthe project files.


                                                       39

on environment. This includes construction of new track, maintenance facilities fuel storage
yards etc. Both agencies have limited capacity for carrying out EA includingimplementation of
environmental management action plan. Therefore, MOC and BR need to address this issue if
future Bank support for investments in the railways is envisaged. A critical mass of
environmental expertise would have to be established in BR to address both environmental and
social effects stemmingfrom operations.

119.   Generally, a strong case could be made for the environmental benefits o f railway
transport in terms o f energy efficiency and less pollution over other competing transport modes.
However, the railway companies worldwide have not responded to environmental challenges
such as reduction of energy consumed per unit transportation volume, C 0 2 and NOx emission
reduction, recycling o f waste, reduction o f water consumption etc. The areas o f BR's anticipated
future capacity needs and medium term measures to address environmental impacts from
railways operations will be defined inthe proposedenvironmental audit and action plan.

120.   The proposed reform program aims to improve the governance structure o f BR and
provides an opportunity to add another dimension to operational improvement measures and
enhance BR's capacity to manage future adverse effects on environment. Economic benefits from
developing capacity for environmental risk management and sustainable transport business
include increased competitiveness, reduced remedial environmental cost, reduced investment
cost and reduced liability to damage claims. To achieve this at policy and structural levels,
environmental reforms will be undertaken to complement the railway governance reforms
supported under the proposed Credit. Inparticularly the following actions will be undertaken and
included inthe Policy Matrix (Annex 3):

    (a)   Conduct an Environmental Audit and Management Plan in order to determine BR's
          environmental baseline conditions; evaluate current institutional and legal framework
          for improved environmental performance; evaluate direct and indirect impacts and
          benefits o f current and proposed operations and measures to bringBR operation inline
          with acceptable corporate standards. (BR in coordination with DOE - Action to be
          taken byJanuary 2009).

    (b)   BR authority to establish a Railways Environmental Unit with a basic staff o f 2
          environmental and2 social specialists (Action to betakenbyJanuary 2008).

RisksandRiskMitigation
121.   The main risk associated with the proposed Credit i s that BR and GOB do not implement
the agreed reforms. Experience with ADB engagement inthe railway sector suggests that agreed
reforms are not always followed or they are later reversed. Table 8 below highlights the mainrisk
areas andproposed mitigation measures.




                                                 40

                              Table 8: Risk Areas a1 Mitigation Measures
                         Risks                                          Mitigation Measures
Policy   reversal. Although      GOB     has shown     Robust upfront actions and creating facts on the
commitment for the proposed reforms, sudden ground quickly so that it will not be easy for future
policy reversals are not uncommon in Bangladesh,        administration to reverse the reform program so
particularly those that have political implications. It easily
i s possible that what is agreed during the current
administration could be reversed by a future            Effective communication strategy by BR helped by
administration. Elections are due to take place in a public communication firmto inform the public o f
late 2006.                                             the benefits and costs o f the reforms so that going
                                                       back on reforms will be politically costly for fbture
                                                        admhstrations.
BR delays implementation of reform. In the past,        Clear compact, including monitorable milestones,
BR has backtracked on several reform initiatives,       between BR and MOC developed for                 the
resulting inincomplete reforms.                         implementationo f the reformprogram.

                                                        Closely monitor reform implementation by all
                                                        development partners.

                                                        Linkfuture investmentprograms frommajor donors
                                                        (WB, ADB and JBIC) to progress in the
                                                        implementationo f the reformprogram.
Labor resistance. Although the proposed reform Assess thoroughly the impact o f the proposed
program does not entail labor retrenchment, the         reform on labor, in particular on what it means to
labor may still feel threatened withjob security, and lose civil service status and work in a corporatized
be apprehensive about the uncertainty associated entity.
with any reformprogram, including one that entails
losing civil service status.                            Communicate effectively the benefits and costs o f
                                                        the reformto staff and field managers
                                                        Effective participationby staff and field managersin
                                                        the reformdiscussions and implementation.

                                                        Developing a robust safety net for any redundant
                                                        staff, ifany, associatedwiththe reformprocess.




                                                      41

           ANNEX 1:LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY

                                                                            5EP* 13 2a06 02:55w




                     Govcrmnentofthe People'sRepublicof Bangladesh
                                     Ministry of Finance
                                       Pinanst Division
                                          B~dn~t-17




Sub: Banglad+ Rmilway(RR) RefhrmProgremmaticDcvclopment PolicyCredit


DeaXb-4.r. WQlfOwitZ,                d

Please .find attached ti= Deveiopthent Policy lrttcr for the Bangladesh Railway from
BarristerNaxrndHuda MinisterforiCpmmunicatlans.
                                     I
As you may know, Bangladeshhas achicvcd some god economic and social development
progress inrecent ycar5. GDP p w t b over the periodof 1;y 2001 to 2005 has been streadify
inrmrring and ihe prejccteagrewthrstr this year isWell ova 6.5 N a e n t Bangladeshhas
&io made significant progrew insocial and humandevelopment indicator$.Ithas increased         .
p r n school primary enrollment from 72 percunr in 1980 to 98 pxccnt In ZOOS and has
already attained rhe hADG of d i m i ~ ~ hgender disparity id primary and sr;condq
                                                  g
emmllment.

The Gdvmuneut is pravidj~lgmore emphasis to the rsilway sector in arder to dcvclop a
inox tnvirnamentallyaad socially sustainable transport system in thc country. However,
tailway faces sefhus infi.astructure,,iirtstihxtiondand governanceehnllengcs, which need w
beova-comoifmilis mplay a mmeimportantrole inthe transport sector.

'Ihe proposed Bangladesh Railway DYC will be !he first majar Wtirld Bank operation in
knghulwk'~railway     L ~ I U I .Becauis o f the undsrlyhy irnyortancc of -tor    pvernsru;~
reforms for rhe succcsb of railway invertmont. the World Bank Cngal;len'tCilK ba the Seerpr is
sought 8s 1policy-based lending rg suppnrt nrotmr before subscandal inwtmenrs are
undertaken. Tha institutibnnl and &vernance hpravemcnu are fundamtiital for urnufng
theefficacy oi~atlwayinvestments.

The proposedDPC would also impmvcdevelopmentpartnership fov the rnulti-donor,multi-
year railway mfwm and invtstmcnt program. 7hc government is always ~~mmia#i                to
pursuiq the reforins aimed at improving the qimlity of the railway senrice to facilitate thc
growthofdu: economyandpovextyreductioncfforrs.

We arc wrxviruradthat thio prcy;mm o%reibrm&ll reeoivmyou: %vomblcecrneidoratiuria.

withh o tregards.
                                                               r'. .Sinctrelyyourt,


                                                                     (M.SMinister
                                                                            a i k Rahtnan)


Mr. PaulWolfowia
President
The WorldBank
WashingtonD.C.. USA




                                               42

  Subject: BangladeshRailway ProgrammaticDevelopmentPolicy Credit: Development
                                         Paticv tetter.

  Dear Mr.Wolfowitt,


  1.   As part of the development partnership between the Governmeax of Bangladesh.
       (GOB) andthe AsianDevelopmcntBank(ADB), the Japan Bank for Intemthnal
       Cooperation(JBIC), and heWorld Bank, the GOB has been preparingthe proposed
       Bangladesh Railway Reform Prog-ammatic Development Policy Credit (DE] to
       improve the governance structure within which Bangladesh Railway (BR) operates,
       addnssing both governance relationship between GOB and BR 88 weft as in the
       corporate governanceand rnanagcnient structure within the railweyorganization.

  2.   GOB and BR have concluded a Multi-tranche Fimncmg Facility {MFF) loan for
       US$430 million, which includesUS530million under ADB' soft Iaanto finance the
       cosh of the refarmprogram and USS4Do million under ADB's hard loan to finance
       BR`spriorityinvestmentpmgmm, which would bereleasedinfour tranches linkedto
       pnlgfwinthe implemeatatkmofthe refom progrdm. filefirsttrancheloanwould be
       launchedduringFY07,GUJ3is also discussingwith JBIC to provideinvestmentloan
       for the Dhaka-ChitlagongCorridorinPY07.

  3.   To support the reform program, and play a catalytic role far ensuring the m a s of
       the reform program by coordinating with all doiiors and the wider govenunent
       ministries and agencies, GOB is requesting IDA for financial assistance undtr a
       programmaticDPC.The first DFCwill be for USMOmillion and is plannedfor Fiswl
       Year 2007 andwith the second DPC is for US60millionwill benegotiatedinFYO9.
        At a later stage, after significant progress on refom, GOB and IRA will dibcuss an
        investmtntoperationcoveringpri~~i,riby  investmentsfor infmstnrchrreand rollingstock
L       rehabilitationandexpansion,

  RecentEconomic Performance

  4.    Bangladesh has achieved some remarkable economic and social development
        progressinrecentyears. GDP growthaveraged 5.4 percentperannm Over thc FYOl-
        05 period. In social and human development indicetars,Bangladesh has taken large
        strides toward achievingthe MillenniumDevelopmentGoals (MDGs). It is estimated
        that Bangladeshwill need a sustained annual GDP growth rate ofaround Pib -8% to
        achieve poverty reductjon targets and related millennium development g~als.As
        transport plays a crucial facilitatingrole for economic development,Government of
        Bangladesh{GOB} attaches top prioritytowards developmcnt of a Mfc, cffiiient and
        economicaltfanspatt system inthe countryto ensure affordablemobility for all &




                                                  43

 5.    Transpon seclor spcndingaveraged about 27 %ofthe total Annual DevelopmentPlan
       (ADP) in FY2003-05period and 1.5% of GDP. Due emphasis was gEven in WanspoR
       sccfor planning to ensure accessibility of the pootcr sections of the conimunity to
       market, education and healthcarc facilities in order to achieve poverty reduction
       largcis. Much more investment will be needed in the corning years for expansion and
       niodcmizatinn of transport infrastructure to match the ever-gowing dcrnsnd.
       Government is aware and keen to improve institutionaland managementcapabilities
       of the transport parastahis to provide business and investment friendly trarnspon
       services in the country.

 6,    A National Land Transport Policy WLTF) with       iilong-term  vision of 30 yeas has
       already been adopted, The policy objectives .include provision of a safe and
       dependable transp>ort servicc with more emphasis on rail and water transport.
       Economic efficiency of raihvay and the fact that itis more environmentally friendly,
       safer mode of transport and quires less land acquisition, make railway ihc future
       transport system of the country. Government is committed to re-build, modernize,
       expand and reorganize the railway system to meet the country%future transportation
       neds in a market respanshe and efficient matter. Specific railway policy and
       strategiesin the NLTP includethe foilowing

               Encouragegreater private sector participationinthe provisionofser6ces
               Enhanceqmationalcapacityofrailways
               Obtaingreatermarketshare for freight
               Managethe railwaysassetmoreefficiently
               Improw:financial efficiency
               Provide serviC0 fqr.wckt1needsmoreeffwtively
               Fostierinter-regiod links
                Reduceinvolvementinnon-rail/core activiiia
            I   Improve safety
            m  Transform BR intoB governmentawned corporate entity


 7.     An intepted multimodal transport policy is being finalized b streamline
        development efforts and investments decisionsfor the transport sector and devdop a
        mofe balancedmode of transport. The multimodaltransport policy will help create a

!       level playing field for all modes and the adoption of a fair and equal cost recovery
        policy for bo& roadand rail infrastructure.The draftpolicy also confirms GOB'Splan
        to transform 3R intoa government-owned corporateentity. Thepolicy is expectedto
        bc approved inFY 2007.

  Railway Sector Background

  8.    BangladeshRailway (BR) is a department under the MinistryofCommunicntionsof
        the Government of Bangladesh [GOB) with 2,&55 route-km and 34,168 regular
        employees. The network is divided into two zones, thc East Zone and the West Zone,
        i.e. one m e on either side of the Jamuna River. 2,855 route-km consists of hvo
        gauges. A total of 660 km ofthe route, all fallingin the West Zone, consists orbrod
        gauge @:BG), Le., 3,676 m width track. The West Zone has 553 km of metre gauge
        (NG), Le., 1.0 m width track and the Est &ne has 1,277 km o f track (all MG). In
        addition there is 3G5 km of dual gauge track (catering for both BG and MG trains)a
        The Jamuna hfullipurpose Bridge (JMB), which has a dual g;tuBe rail track on it   ilv



                                               44

    provides the only aast-west rail link. However, ib utility to 13R is limited by
    significant load restrictions placed on BG trains across the bridge. BR has a total of
    454 stations, 243 and 211 in thc East arid West Zones, respectively. I t has 277
    locomotives, 1,407 passengerand other coaches, and 1O,631 wagons.

9.  Ir is an undenyhgfact that BangladeshRailway (BR} couldmiperformadequately`Lo
    retain its share of the transpart market. BR's decliningrevcnue has been resuIting in
    increasing deficit Wilh its resource constraints, government cannol finance the
    increasingdefick This in turn caused BR to lose market share, thus worsening its
    financial performance. The major impediment for BR to provide efficient services
    and to retain its market share was (and still is) the limitations of its physical
    infrastructure. Z$OO km railway network, which was historically inherited from the
    British1ndianRailways, had two different gauges (Broad Gauge. & MetreGauge).
    With Rvo fkrq linksovier the nver Jamuna, the nilsystemhadtcr beoperated as three
    pocket networks.The disorkiled and disjaintednetworkmade seamlessoperation of
    sewices impossible, This w as the main cauSe of railway's lack ofcompetitiveness
    with other modes, particularly the road transport, for which ir&rastnuciure was built
    subsequently matching the traffic flow requirement of the country. However,
    iixtitutional and managementproblemsarc also key constmintsfor the performance
    of therailway.

10. With previous Asian Development Bank (ADB) assistance BR under-took railway
    recoverypmgrame (W)in 1991 fw improving its perfbrmamc as a precondition
    for inclusion of a railway link on the Jamuna rnultipurpost bridge (JMB), Main
    objectives of RRP were deficit reduction, termination of opn-ended subsidy, mtionai
    investment policy, st-aff.Tationalization and institutional reforms. ntr: major
    achiektxentsofFUZPwere the h!iowing:


       i.    Rducfjon ofworkforce from 58,000 to 33,877 by December 2003
       ii.   Clwurcofa numberofmoneylosingbranchlines, statiom, workshops etc.
       iii. Suspension ofnon-profitablepassengertrains
       iv.   Adoption of Public Service ObligatibnVSO) principle for cmpanmtion by
             Governmentofthei loss incurredianmningpassengertrainsonm i a l
             consideration
       V.    TarifTfixation oncommercialprinciple,
       vi.   Associationofprivatesectorsin differentactivities,

11.  Achievement of RRP could secure a railway track on the Jamunlr Bridge which
     providedthe much needed interconnection of the railway networksof the two mnes,
     significant progress was also achieved in the anxi of institutimal rofbrm. But
     pervasive physical consttaints relatingto infrastructure and aging rollingstock could
     not lead to sustainable rcform. I t became clear that unlessthe physical constraintsare
     alleviated, the reform objectives cannot be sustained evenif temporarilyachieved,
     Simultaneous investmentwill therefarebe neededto achieve bothpolicy reformsand
     infrastructureprovision for improvementof BR's perfmame on B sustainablebasis.
     The development partners like ADB, WB and JBIC realize this and have a p e d to
     addressthe railway sector modernizationissueina holisticmanner    d




                                           45

Scctor Pcrformntiec

 13.   BR is headed by a Director General who repoJ.ts to ahe Secretary, Ministry of
       Comtnunicalions (h4OC) and the Minister of Communications.For policy guidance,
       there is a nine-mcmber Bangladesh Railway Authority (BRA) headed by the Minister
       ofCommunications.

 f 4,  BR operatesa mix of passengerand freight services. Owr the last three decades, BR's
       share of the transpprt market has fallen due to increasing competition from toad
       transport. Passenger 5r;ryicts are dominant, accounting for over 83% of all train
       services, Revenue from intercity trains aecwnts for 73% af total passenger earnings.
       BR faces tough competition froniother transport rnodes for highYaIue cargo, TxIe
       importance of freight operations for BR is highlighted by the fact that while
       accounting for just undw 17% of total traffic units, their contmhutionto gross revenue
       inFY2005 was neatly34%. Freight traffic during FY2005 was 3 2 million tons. BR's
       core business in freight revolves around five commodities, Le., food pins,
       containers, pelroleurn products, fertilizer, and slones, which to&%bthsrmake up about
       72% of total h i & t traffic. Container services were introducedin 1991and container
       traffic betweenDhakaand Chittagongrepttscntsan importantgrowthpotential,

 15.   In the FY 2005 working ratio i.e, operating expenses divided by total revenue was
        1.36 and the operatingratioLe,operatingexpensesdividedby operatingrevenueswas
        1.46. PSO and welfare pant given by the government when added to the o~eraI1
       earning will improve the ratio reammbly,Iomtx, ttw:BR tariffs wfjrt maintained
        unchangedsince 1992.
                  ..
  16. . BR hasreachedIIcriticaljunctuminitsperfomaxtccand takessjmilarproblemstho=
       are experienced by many other developingcountry railway services, includinglawer
        revenue leadingio a lack of maintenance and investments, causing poor services and
        further contributing to reducedrevenue. While railways worldwide face increasing
        competition from m d , air, and water transport, BR faces additional challenges in
        overcoming its lack of commercial focus, low efficiency, lack cf scrvice quality,
        agingfleet, and congested network on major corridim sucha5; Dhaka-chittajgmgand
        the conidar in tke wstcrn Bangladesh.The weaknesses in the railway sub sector are
        rnanifestcd in declining market share, adverse; opetating indicators and reduced
        revenue generathn. Their underlying causes arc) to be found in the policy,
I       institutional, and organizationalarrangements f5r the railways, which are ihemstlvcs
        based on the idea of running ranways as a social and economic ann of the
        Government rather thanas a business,

 Sector Cha!!enges and CurrentInitiatives

  17,   l i r f r a s r ~ f ~Cmstrar'nts. Reorientation of the railway network to the changed
                              t ~
        traffic flow tequircment and wliondizaiion of gauge still remain the majorchallenges
        far the railway sector. On-goinggaugeconversionand future constroctionwill aim at
        achieving uni-gauge solution to broad gauge [BG). As part of gauge unificalibn
        programme, h a 1 gauge @3), which i s a combinationof BG and MG (metre gnuge)
        ina tluee-rail configuration,will be used in !he 'transitionphasewherever necem
        until the MGrollingstocks are phasedout.                                          Jf


                                                  46

18. With that tar@ in mind, under the Jnrnunn BridgeRailwayLinkProjcet (JBRLP), 99
    km ncw I?G track was constmclcd ovcr the Jamuna Bridge from JamtoiI on the
    western side up to loydtbpur in the eastern side, Anoilier 246 km BC track has been
    converted to DG from Jamtoil up to Parbatipur under the same project. "his has
    cnabied intercannecticrnof east-west BG 6r MG networks.

19. A project is under implementation to convert existing MG line from Joydebpur to
    Dhakato DG to enableBG trains to come upto Dhaka.

20, Tractdoubling project      the section Tongi - Bhaimb Baar to be financed by ADB,
    will consmct the subspru.chtm[embankment,tracks, bridgesetc.,) to BG standard. For
    fund eonstmint the super-structure will be MG for the time being. Rails usedwill be
    90 Ib in order to minimize future transition cost Moreover 90 Ib rails will1 allow
    heavier axle bids and higher speeds on MG track.

21, ProposedTAwm-Dhaka new track (chord line)with possiblefinancingfrom WB and
    ADB w ill foltowthe same standardand will provide direct short cut link between
    Dhaka&Chittagongavoiding80kmdetourofthemistingroute.

22. The SBlC team will prepare estimate for BG track structure for thR second track
    betweenLabam and ChinkiAstana.

23. Securing investment for expansion and modernization of the railway system to
    internationat standard including modern locomotives, rolling stock, sipling md
    telecommunication remains another ohallenge. It is qiritt enmuraging that
    development partners like ADB, WB and JBtC have coordinilted their efforts to
    provide investktnc support to GOB Silnd BR to face this chdjenge. The major
    invcstrnentprojectsunderconsiderationare-

          Constructionofdoubleline, includingsigrralingbetweenMeire andBIlhairab
          Bazar
          Consttuctionofmissingdouble line, includingsiplingbetweenChinkiAstana
          and Lahm
          Constructionofchardline from Rhakato Lzrksam
          Procurement of 109MGfiat bogiewagons and 5 bogiebrake vans for container
          transport
          Replacementandmodernizationof signalingand interlockingsystemat19
          stationsinChittagong Akhaura sction
                                -
          Upgradationof existrngtracksbetweenParbatipurand Khulnaincluding
          bridges
          Procurement of453 special-typewagon For carryingcoal andhardrock
          Constructionofrailway line from west side ofJarnunabridgeup to Bogta
          Procurementof50BGand 100MGcarriages

24. The followingmid-termand long-term actionsplans and projects are being prepared
    far modernizationof the railway system but funding support isyet to be secured:

          Establishment ofhighdensity dedicated freight and passengercorridors;
      1   Introductionc1f electric traction along with double line on Dhaka- Chittagong
          section;
      a   Acquisitionof g o d performinglocomotiveandrollingstock




                                              47

      .   Constructionofnew ICD,
          Construction offtw h e from Chittagong to cox's Bazar,
      .   Construction of new line from Dhaka to Khulna & Barisal over thc Padma
           Bridge
           Introduction of mil-basd mass transit systcm in bigcilies.

    hrtdeqrrnr~Mrrilrrcvtonca. Became of mdirced revenue generation BR has been
    gening sufficient maintenance fund for a long time. Annual budget requircment for
    8R tnck maintenanceuptothe prescribedstandardsisaboutTk 750 million(US%l2,5
    million), whereasthe allocated fund WI the average about Tk 260 million (USS4.3
    million), which is hbbout 43 percent of the requirement. FOTsimilar reasomonly 40
    percent of IDcaniotives and 51 percent of passenger coaches c d d bt maintained
    pmperly far the aptrratkm, h       B V E W ~ ~ ,
                                                  only about 40 percent of t h annual
    maintenancerequirementismet, and it iscausinga huge backlogofmaintenance.

    Luck of Commercial Focirs. Another formidable chlknge for h e sector is to
    establisha commtrciallyoriented organizationcapable ofprovidingrailway Senice in
     B market responsive manner. Since    BR has been tasked to mcet social as well as
    economic objectives, social and political factors: have oRen uutweighd commercial
     considerations in the process of tariff setting. A a result then hasbeen sustained
                                                       8
     underpricingofpassenger serviceswhich arecross-subsidizedby freight services,

     ADB has a p e d to provide funding support worlh US$30 million to implement a
     refampmgammc,WE3 and J3IC have decided tosupport the BR reformprogrsrnme
          isjointly agreed uponby difkrcnt donors.


GOB Commitment

28.  BR has the potential to be an efficient form of transport service provider for certain
     critical market segments and a balanced transport system whereby railways can
     achieve its, potential in markt ac@;mentswhtrc it is economicalty and financially
     competitive will help in the rjconornic growth of the country and ensure that the
     investment already madeinthe system canbeuiilizedemeiently.

29.  The futute performanceof BR will depend on how effectively it can adapt its 6ervices
     10 its changingmarket position. The fundamenntal challenges for BR are therefore 10
     establisha commercial orientationwith a view to (i}amsting the decline inits share
     of the main market segmcnis; (ii)  improving the profitability of its opmtions; and
     (iii)generating wficient income to finance necessary investments in selective
     capacity expansion, asset replacement, opcn;r~imalimprovements, and safety, This
     will fnrolvc BR (i) running milway services along lines of businasstss; (ii)
     concentratingon core businesses; and [iii)prioritizing invsstmentsbasadOR financiai
     and economic returnswith a view to irnpralringopemthnalperformance and capacity
     in majorpotentialmarketse.g. Dhaka-Chitlagong. Another potentiallyprofitablemute
     for BR could be c a h h g or Bangladesh imports and exports with the neighboring
     counuics,

30.  Inconsultationwilh ADB, WB and JBIC, the GOBhas farmutated a reform strategy
     for thc railway sector covering reforms, through 2011. GOB has already confirme




                                            48

    Ibis reform strnicgy through loan negotiations wirh AD13 which has recently been
    concluded.The priori1it.s for the rcfonn of BR are (i)rnodcrnizingthe organizational
    structure o l BR by implementinga lines of business (LQB) structure; (ii) instihiling
    improved finrtncial    governance, (iii) instituting improved human remurce
    management, (iv) transforming BR into a corporate entitythus enablingit to function
    independentlyon a commercial basis; and allowing private sector participationin thc
    conduct of its business as well as to invest in the Railway; and (VI          support
    improvementto the operationaleffectivenessof train operations, and maintenance.

31. LOB Resfructuring According io tJzc reform progrumme the Government will
    reatrwture BR by lines of business (LOB). To this end, BR will be reorganized by
    lines of business including for Freight, Passenger Infrastructure and Pmperty. These
    LOB structure and oher LOBwill bt confirmedduring the irnplemcntstionaf the
    reform program, which would be supported by a consultant fmanccd through iht
    ADB loan.

32I Subsequently the LOB shwturc wilt bc hplcmented throughout the BR and
    countrywide. Each LOB key perfomanee indicators(K91) will be developedand the
    LOB managers will be acwuntabIe for the results through performance agreements
    with the MOC.

33, lmpraved Finandot Manupmefit nd CostA ctwmtipigsyslent. The Government
                                         ff
     recognizesthe need to implement new financial managementand accounting systems
     inBRbothforthe purposes ofhavingaccumkcdata for decision-making as well:as to
     improve financial govmrance in BR, GOB will support designingand implementing
     computerized accountingsystem to be developed and implementedunder the reform
     prugmmmc. This will provide accounting Infirmtian on LO3 while adhering to
     statutory repofing requirementss.According to the reformschedule the system will be
     fully installedand operatbnal by lend 2008. As part of efforts to increase financiai
     governance, the Government will reinstate the practice of including dtpreciation as a
     line item inBR's financial statements,and will strengthenthe financial accountability
     and inkma1control environmentin BR. The Government will increasc the allocation
     necessaryto BR to alleviate the deficit resultingfrom thispdicy change.

34.  Tn~iflrnrdPussenger Suhidy. GOB will support the cdledion of data to formulate a
     ncw tariff structure based on market condition. This structure to be discussed and
     reviewed by the Gcivernment,APB and WB, and J3IC wilt be implmcntcdby end
     2008. Slirnilarly the MOCwilt a180 collect data to formulate the paymentmechanism
     fmPSOsaviccs provided by BR's PassengerLOBat the request of tbe Government.
     The basicprincipleof t b PSOpayment mechanismis that it will ;be calculatedbased
     on individualsenricedroubsand thatPSa payment will bemade to BR 3n the form of
     reimbursmcntto BR's PassengerLOBon anquarterlybasis for the servirxsprovided
     the previousquarter,Tht detailsofthe PSOpaymentmechanismto?xworkedby the
     conmltanls wiIl be reviewd by the Government, ADB, WB, and JBIC for
     implemcntationby mid2009.

35.  At the same time, GOB would permit BR to Charge market-basedtariffs for wight
     and first class-passenger services by end 2007. The tariff setting would be done by
     BR, lakinginmaccountthe competitionfrmthe roadtransport.      &


                                            49

36. Urirna~~   ResourceMatxagcnrcirt.Effective human resourcemanagement is \he key to
    increasedlabor productivity and a turnaround in railway performance. The across-lhc-
    bwrdhiring frectc in effect since I994 Itas left BR short of personnel in some areas
    and excess in others. There is therefore a need for a microhumanresource analysis to
    identify what skills are needed for BR in the different LOB, what skills are possessed
    by BR current staff, what training they need, and what needed skills are not available
    within BR. The refom programme will implenienta personneldatabase for BR staK
    which will be completed by mid 2008. The analysis of personnet skills needcd,
    shoriages, and excess will be conyhted by end 2008, Based on analysis of nmded
     skills that a n not available Government will allow BR to cornplttt recruitment of
     needed skills   through a competitive process by mid 2009. 3R will implement a
     human resources policy includingredefinedjob descriptionsand c m r ndvancernent
     pathsnecessary to make the LOB mrganizaticmas well as the corporatestructurea
     success. The Govcmment will also authorize a performance-basedremunerationonce
     BR is transformed into a government-owned corporateentity.

37.  Trrr~rsfomting  BR iitro u gor~ccnmenr-orwedcorporatemriv is a cornerstoneof the
     Government's policy for the railway sector as enurncrated in the National Land
     T r a n mPolicy. As a start, BRwith starling2009 will developa planfor ouwurcing
     its non-ccm semias, e.g., schools and hospitals. The Government will conduct
     extensive stakeholder consultatiomwith alI parties involved, includinglabor unions,
     on the transformation of BR into a gcrvemment-owned corporate entity to discuss
     options, receivefeedback and suggestions 88 well as disseminatecorrect information.
     The Governmentwill also implement all the measures nccessslryto give the corporate
    .entitythe flexibility and f d o mto operate nsa commercialenterpriseso that BRcan
     ,fulfillitspotential and helpmakeBwg,Zadesha more mractive destinationfor foreign
     and domestic investment, economic gmwth and the poverty duction. The
     Governmentwill preparedraftIegislationfor discussionswith the 6;takehaldmfor the
     transformationo f BR in to a government-ownedcorporate:entity by early 20W, and
     the legislationwill be presentedfor enactmentbyParliamentby the end of 2010. The
     new BR gowrnment-owned corporateentitywill come into exir;tenceby early 2011.

38.  Jttcreuse in MuirrreEnurrccFmdtiig. In d e r tu improve BR's operational efficiency
     and begin its recovery program, GOB will increasethe dlooation af the rnaintemnce
     funding for BR.6 urgent maintenance requinmenQ, Thjs would provide critical
     resources for the shrk-tmn while the major donvr-supportedinfrastructureprojects
     are beingpreparedand reforms are implemented. BR needs annual& Tk 750 million
      (US%12.5 million) for maintenance of tracks, Tk140 miHicm (UM2.3 million) for
     mainlcnanccof signals, Tk 850 millionfor rollingstocks (locomotka and cankges),
     totaling Tk 1.74 billionfor maintenance of assttsup to the mark. GOB wiIl provide
      this funding for the next three yean, as pat of the Medium-term Budgetary
     Framework.

99.   GuugeHermonizufion, GOB is ccmmittedto develclp an integratedrailnetwork and
     a standard gauge in the country. To this end, GOB and BR will ensure that the
     planned investment projects by donors for the rehabilitation, modernization and
     development ofthe railway infrastxuctutewouldtake intoaccount the futurc transpon
     demand, the need to haveone-type p u p within the country, as well as to harmonize
     the gauge standards with neighboringcountries for future regional and internahnal
      trade, COB in consultationADB, WB, and JBIC will define the mid- and long-te




                                               50

     jnscstment plans and a transition strategy from the currcnt mixed gauge to a singlc
     gauge infrastructurein the entire country bythe end of2007.

40.  Eirvironmenz, Social and Procurenrent Aspects. The proposedreform project aims to
     improve the govern3nncl: structure of BW and providesan opportunity 10 add another
     dimension to operational impmvemcnt measures and enhance BR's capacity to
     manage future adverse effects on environnrental and social issues. The proposed
     reform also a i m at improvingthe procurementprocess.

41.  To achieve long-term sustainability of the proposed reforms, GOB will undertake
     studies to sys~ematicallyassess their environmental and social impacts. To improve
     an the existingenvironmentalmanagementregulationsand enhance BR's capacity, an
     Enviromental Audit (EA) will bc conducted to determine the BR's environmcnlal
     baseline conditions; evahetc current institutionaland legal frameworks for knproved
     performance with environmental issues; and assess direct andindirect impacts and
     benefits of current and proposed operations and rne5~suresto bring BR operations in
     line with acceptable corporate standards. A Social Impact Assessment (SIA) will be
     carriedout to analyze the linksbetweenthe proposedpolicymformsandtheir poverty
     and social impacts @olh positive and negative) and examine their distributional
      impacts on different stakeholder groups, with a particular focus on the poor and
      vulnerable.    BR will cany out both EA and SIA and prepare Social and
      Environmental Management Frameworks with environmental and social impact
      mitigationstrategies. T o ensurc wider acceptanoe,the frameworks will use inputs
      from other development partnen assisting GOB in the nilway sector. As a step
      toward buildingenvironmental and social management capacity, BR will esbblish a
      Railways Environmental and Social Unit with hvo envirnnmenta1 and two social
      specialists.

42.   Presently BR, like my other government orpniultion, is following PPR 2003, GOB
      Will continueits support lo BR for enhancingits capabilityandefficiency for timely
      award ofcontract, and informationdisclosureas requimdby the PPR.

Conclusion

43.   The reform pmgpm will enable 3R          kt  perform more effiiofcntly by increasing
      commercialfocus, increasingefficiency, improving~ r v i quality, and givinggreater
                                                                  ~ e
      managerial and financial autonomy to BR. I t will form the basis to allow BR to
      sustainimprovementsmade to infrastnrcture and rollingstock to increasecapacity on
      major canidom.This will improve and sustain financial and operationalefficiency. It
      will also improve the competitivenessof Bangladesh for foreign and domestic private
      investment thus facilitatingeconomic growth and gcneratingthe W O U neededfur
                                                                                ~
      povertyreduction. There will be improvedtransparencyin financial managementand
      deteminalionof PSO costs as well as improvedgovernance intherailways.

44.   The GOB hopes that, reform component will enable BR to restructure itself into an
      LOB organizaiional structure with improved financial governanca and human
      resourceplanning and incentives. It will enable BR to have accurate asset registers,
      and financial accounting and management systems, This will enable BR to have
      greater comwcrcial focus concentrating on distinct markets. There will also be
                                                                                      x
      independentcost and profit centetr: thus introducinggreater transparency and accurate
      information for policy and operational decision-making and service plaani




                                             51

    Replacing h e outmoded organizational structure will help change mindsets within
    BR.

45. The transforniation of RR in to a government-owncd corporate entity will introduce
    greater accountabiiity to the manegers of the enterprise. With a greater commercial
    fucus, rhcre is the potential to reduce, if not reverse, the losses that BR has been
    makingand thus reduce the burden on the Governmentto financethese losses,

46. lniproving the efficiency of 3R will also help to attract greater foreign direct
    investment intothe country, as an efficient transportationsystem is one of the factors
    thatinvestomconsider.

47. Ihapsthat the coopetation between lnttmatianalDevelopmentAssociation[IDA)
    and the GOB in the field of rail transport will be established through IDA support
    through the progammatic DPC to enhance the implementation of BR's refom
     program.This will lead to significant progresstoward achieving improvementsector
     governance and ensuring increase in rail: share of the transport market, as well as a
     long-term partnershipbetweenGOB and IDA in thc railway



    Thankingyou,




                                                                                          I




                                             52

  ANNEX 2: GOVERNMENTPOLICY/OVERALL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT
                                           PROGRAM

GovernmentRailwayReformProgram

122.    The current GOB strategy in the transport sector is to develop a more balanced transport
system and modal share in the country, with less relative emphasis on roads. This is because
expanding roads in Bangladesh requires large-scale land acquisition and often implies
resettlement, a costly and difficult proposition in a land-scarce and densely inhabitedcountry like
Bangladesh.Also, road safety is already a major concern inBangladesh. Eightto ten persons die
every day in road accidents, and traffic and road-related accidents are the tenth largest cause o f
disability and death inBangladesh. Finally, road transport has major environmental externalities,
especially air and noise pollutions. Railways, by contrast, can be expanded with little land
acquisition, and are more environmentally sustainable and generally much safer. Railways save
on energy and generate less pollution. In densely used corridors, railways could provide an
efficient passengertransport system.

123.    Multi-ModalTransport Policy. Inrecent policy documents, GOB declares its intent to
shift its development strategy in the transport sector. The Integrated Multi-Modal Transport
Policy (IMTP, Draft 2005) soon to be approved by the GOB aims to build a secure, dependable
and uninterrupted modem transport network addressing problems related to road, rail, inland
water, including access to ports and airports. The IMTP will assist GOB in achieving a more
rational and balanced investments across transport modes, and to provide choices for users. In
preparing the IMTP, the National Land Transport Policy (2004) and the National Shipping
Policy (2002) have been combined with air transportation service plans. Under the IMTP, GOB'
reaffirms its policy to transform Bangladesh Railway to a government-owned corporate entity,
and develop a multi-modal corridors between major economic growth centers, the immediate
priority being the Dhaka-Chittagong Economic Corridor. The policy also encourages steps to
integrate BRwith neighboring country railways andcarriers.

124.    National Land Transport Policy. GOB'S National Land Transport Policy under
implementation since 2004 defines the roles o f the public and private sector so that "the private
sector will provide transport services and the government will be responsible for fixing the
environmental and technical standards for construction o f transport infrastructure and other
safety standards." The National Land Transport PoZicy clarifies private roles infinance, efficient
operating techniques, innovation, and maintains the government will retain ownership of the road
and rail infrastructure. The Policy supports affordable transport for the poor and would require
GOB to provide subsidies to support low fares, will also "move towards a taxation system for
road users which ensures that users pay for the costs o f the transport operations and
maintenance."

125.    For the railway sub-sector, GOB outlines its intent to increase autonomy and commercial
focus by transforming BR into a government-owned corporate entity. BR would use leasing or
concessions to increase private sector participation in investment, ticketing, passenger services,
equipment supply, freight operations, and maintenance. A Railway Advisory Board comprising



                                                  53

the GOB and BR would assist in matters of integrated transport policy. As a government owned
corporate entity, BR's autonomy would be more secure than with the current structure. GOB'S
specific railway policy and strategies inthe NLTP include the following:26

    e   Encourage greater private sector participation inthe provision of services
    e   Enhance operational capacity ofrailways
    e   Obtain greater market share for freight
    e  Managethe railways asset more efficiently
    e  Improve financial efficiency
    e  Provide service for social needs more effectively
    e  Foster inter-regional links
    e   Reduce involvement innon-raiVcore activities
   e   Improve safety
   e    Transform BRinto a corporate entity

126.   Implementation of the railpart of the NLTP has been slow. This is inpart due to lack o f
government commitment (see below for analysis o f previous reform efforts), and inpart due to
lack o f long-term support from development partners to facilitate the implementation o f the
reforms. Inaddition, BR also didnot formulate nor implement any reform program.

127.   Nevertheless, there are some noteworthy reforms undertaken by GOB and BR to meet
some of the NLTP objectives, especially in the areas o f private sector partnership. BR has now
outsourced the following activities to the private sector:

    e  onboard services on intercity trains;
    e  computerizedticketing andreservation systems;
    e  runningfiber optic telecommunications network;
    e  rehrbishmento fpassengercoaches;
    e   cleaning o f engines andpassenger coaches;
   e   conversion o fnon air-conditioned coaches to air-conditioned ones; and
   e   maintenance o f selected tracks.

128.    The results of these limited reforms have been dramatic. BR obtained additional
revenue o f Taka113 million annually from outsourcing the ticketing o f 63 trains compared to the
time when it ran the services itself. BR has also been able to generate Taka 860 million a year
through the leasing o f its fiber optic cable network to the private sector. These additional
revenues - generated through simple reforms designed to improve revenue collection - make up
25 percent o fBR's current operating revenues.

ANALYSIS OF PASTRAILWAY GOVERNANCEREFORMEFFORTS

129.   Improving governance o f the Bangladesh Railway would enhance both its management
and finances, resulting in better service and a more efficient use o f government funds. The
Bangladesh Railway serves the poor and key industries, that cannot afford the cost o f service.
However, direct government involvement distracts the BR from both economic and social goals.


26National Land TransportPolicy, 2004, P. 33


                                                54

Inthe past, with highcosts for railway reform and few immediatebenefits, governments didnot
persist with reforms, and Railway Boards came and went. With a growing economy and
established democracy, the benefits o f reform are much greater, while institutional stability and
recent staff retrenchment in BR have lowered the costs o f reform. The government can realize
these benefits by improve railway governance if it clearly defines autonomy, balances the
interests o frelevant stakeholders, and enacts permanent reform legislation.

Evolution of Railway Governance

130.    Facing the challenges o fpolitical instability, widespread poverty, anddifficult geography,
past governments have placed a greater emphasis on macroeconomic goals, and popular support
rather than operational efficiency, when setting railway policy. Railway Boards (See Table 1A)
lost authority because governments desired direct control to pursue broad policy goals, because
stakeholders were not united behind reforms, and because the Boards lacked legislative
support.27

                         Table 1A: Evolutionof RailwayGovernanceinBangladesh
     Time       Government      Managerial     Financial      Legal           Loss of Authority
     Period     Authority       Autonomy       Autonomy       Backing
     1908 - Colonial            Yes            Yes, after     British         Government o f Pakistan
     1947       Adrmnistration                 1924           Parliament      imposes direct control under
                                                              legislation,    MinistryofCommunications
                                                              1908            for broad, policy goals
     1959 - Pakistan            Yes. initiates Yes, after     Railway         Government o f Pakistan
     1962                       efficiency     1961           Board           provincializes Railway
                                refonns                       Ordinance,
                                                              1959
     1962 - East Pakistan       Yes, but       Yes, but       Transfer o f    Provincial Government
     1971                       increasing     increasing    Railway          transfers to Railway,
                                government     government     Order, 1962     Waterways, and Road
                                involvement.   involvement                    Transport Department.
                                Does not                                      Government o fBangladesh
                                complete                                      imposes direct control under
                                reforms                                       MinistryofCommunications
                                                                              for broad, policy goals
     1976- Bangladesh           Limited        Limited        Ordinance,      Government o f Bangladesh
     1983                       autonomy,      autonomy,      1976            imposes direct control under
                                MOC            MOC                            MinistryofCommunications
                                dominates      dominates                      for broad, policy goals
     1983 - Bangladesh          Direct         Direct        Ordinance,       Government o f Bangladesh
     1996                       control o f    control o f    1983            reforms BR
                                MOC            MOC
     1996- Bangladesh           Limited        Limited       Cabinet          Supported underADB loan.
     2002                       autonomy,      autonomy,     approval,        The Boardofficially exists,
                                MOC            MOC            1996            butdoes not function
                                dominates      dominates
                   Source: World Bank andAsian DevelopmentBank documents (1957-2006)




27 World Bank and Asian Development Bank documents from 1957 to 2006 chronicle BR's organizational
developments. In particular, the World Bank's Bangladesh Transport Sector Review, 1991, and ADB's
Organizational Reform of Bangladesh Railway, 2004, summarize the evolution o fRailway Boards.


                                                     55

131.    The evolution o f Railway Boards in Bangladeshcan be traced back to 1890 when the
BritishParliament first established a role for the government in railway administration with the
Railway Act of 1890. Later, they sought autonomy to improve efficiency and established a
Railway Board in 1908. In 1924 a committee recommended greater financial autonomy for
railways in India by separating the railways budget from the general budget and appointing a
Chief Commissioner and three Commissioners to manage the railways.

132.    Pakistan. Following the separation o f Pakistan from India in 1947, the new government
placed the railway under central control and used it to builda national identity from the country's
two provinces. The government responded to migrants and refugees, needingemployment, byre-
staffing institutions in accordance with the national identity o f Pakistan, and by increasing
employment. While India retained its Railway Board, Pakistan imposed direct control through a
Director General in the Ministry o f Communications and directed infrastructure development.
Although Pakistan considered a Railway Board, uncertain provincial authority over the western
andeasternportions delayed autonomy for manyyears.

133.    Separation, however, imposed challenging demands on the Railway system and
administration. The rail network had two, separated track systems, was severed fiom Calcutta,
and faced regular flooding. By 1957, according to a World Bank report,28 East Pakistan had
revived much o f the physical infrastructure, but administrative problems persisted. The railway
based promotions primarily on seniority, rather than merit, and overstaffed unskilled labor
positions.  Unnecessary regulations,      outmoded accounting procedures,          and unreliable
procurement, all reduced railway efficiency.

134.    To effectively confront administrative challenges, Pakistan established an autonomous
railway board in 1959. Modeled after the Separation Convention o f 1924, the intention was to
endow the Railway Board with both financial and managerial autonomy. While the government
would provide funds for capital additions, the Railway Board would be responsible for repaying
foreign loans fiom general revenue, financing capital replacement and rehabilitation from
internal funds, and compensating the government for capital finds. The Railway Board had
managerial authority to set rates within broad limits, based staff promotions primarily on merit,
and limited the rise of labor costs by freezing the hiring o f basic staff, Committees reviewed
regulations, accounting, and procurement policies and found opportunities to improve
 operation^.^'

135.    Despite significant reforms over three years, political developments motivated
distributing authority to the Provincial Governments, and diminished Railway Board autonomy
in East Pakistan. Although railway autonomy appeared to preclude provincialization, the             '
President repealed the Railway Board Ordinance o f 1959. With the Transfer o f Railway Order in
1962, the President transferred the Pakistan Western Railway and the Pakistan Eastern Railway
to their respective provincial governments. While the West retained an autonomous Board, the
East eventually placed it as an executive body under the Railway, Waterways, and Road
Transport Department of the Provincial Government. The new Railway Board in East Pakistan
did not finalize all the reforms begun by its predecessor. At the time o f provincialization, 22 o f
the 30 top managers in the Pakistan Eastern Railway were originally from West Pakistan;


28WorldBank. 1957.Pakistan- SecondRailwayProject.
29WorldBank. 1962. Pakistan-FourthandFifthRailwayProjects.


                                                56

personnel adjustments followed, and Pakistan Eastern Railway promoted staff internally.
According to the World Bank 1991 report, this arrangement, with tighter government control,
was less successful at runningthe railways efficiently.

136.    Bangladesh. Following Bangladesh's independence in 1971, the new government
promoted central control o f the economy by asserting direct control over the railway and
nationalizing other industries. The war, and floods in 1974, devastated Bangladesh's
infrastructure and economy, including the railway. The government sought to rebuild, reduce
inequality, and provide employment to Bengalis. The railways became an instrument for broad
government policy.

137.     In1973, the government appointed a General Manager for the Bangladesh Railway and
merged it with the national budget under the Ministry o f Communications. The government
asserted independence by promoting Bengalis within the railway and attempted to relieve
unemployment by expanding the payroll to thousands o f new employees. The government
initiated parallel policies in road construction to employ rural labor. Subsequent governments
would also prioritize roads and encouraged network growth, reducing railway competitiveness in
the long term. With donor assistance, the government rebuilt critical bridges andrepair facilities.
But without improving management effectiveness, the Railway did not transition to efficient
operations. Employee productivity and utilization o f locomotives and rolling stock fell to below
pre-independence levels. The government imposed low fares, inducing an increase inpassenger
traffic. Central control and over-employment inthe railways and other sectors created a legacy o f
labor activism and low productivity.

138.     In 1976, the new government established a Railway Board but endowed it with little
authority. Although the Railway Board, established by an Ordinance in 1976, was supposed to be
autonomous under the Ministry o f Communications, the Ministry o f Communications imposed
specific direction and restricted the Board to a management role. For example, the government
regulated passenger fares for all modes o f transportation, and continued to price railway
passenger traffic below cost, diverting capacity away from freight traffic. Poor financial
performance reduced funds          available for maintenance     and exacerbated         operational
inefficiencie~.~'

139.     The decision to establish a Railway Board was reversed in 1983, when new government
came into power. Not only did it abolish the Railway Board, it administered the Bangladesh
Railway by direct control, and complicated the bureaucracy by adding parallel divisions. The
previous government had created the Railway Board by issuingan ordinance which updated the
Railway Act o f 1890. The new government simply reverted to the original Act by revoking the
1976 Ordinance. To establish direct control, the government appointed a Secretary o f the
Railway Division in the Ministry o f Communications as the Director General o f BR. Under the
reorganization, positions proliferated but control became even more centralized. Parallel
operating units managed the East and West branches and each operating unit was composed o f
two parallel divisions. Each division had senior officers, support staff, and facilities. Inspite of
the vast organization, the SecretaryDirector General, a member o f the government, issued
detailed directives on local activities. As the employer o f last resort, over-hiring reduced
productivity and entrenched labor unions associated with BR. Labor costs represented 97% o f


30World Bank. 1979.Bangladesh - Second Highway Project.


                                                 57

revenue and revenue covered only 70% of the budget. The government subsidized this shortfall
andmandatedpolitically important routes.

 140.    In the 1990s, despite democratic elections, populist politics continued to distract from
 attempts to reform BR.Under constant threat o f strikes, the government did not embark on major
reforms that might provoke trade unions. However, the government used the opportunity o f
donor financial assistance to transform the railway into a more accountable, autonomous, and
market-oriented organization. In1996, the government abolished some parallel organizations and
created the Bangladesh Railway Authority (BRA), a railway board. Headed by the Director
 General, who would no longer also be a Secretary, BRAwas to be more independent. Inthe new
 arrangement: the government would formulate national transport policy, BRA would determine
 railway policies, long term strategy, and management accountability, and BR, headed by the
Director General, would manage day-to-day operations. Government attempts to reorganize BR
were resisted by staff and not approved by parliament.Nevertheless, by offering compensation
packages to employees, BR reduced staff from 56,600 to 36,600. The 65 million dollar employee
 compensation package, financed by ADB, led to annual savings o f 12 million. These actions
 helped to reduce the overall budget gap by the late 1990s. But subsidies and government
 interference remained, and the budget gap increased again after 2000.31 Although donor
 organizations provided assistance on major aid projects, such as the Jamuna Bridge, the
 government did not reduce central administrative control. BR retained the structure o f a
 government agency and did not fully implement many plannedorganizational reforms, such as
 establishing a customer liaison committee. Regular strikes impaired the government from
 securing legislative consensus on railway policy.

 141.    Until2002, the board ofthe Bangladesh Railway Authority hadmet 19times andplayed
 a minor roll in budget and investment planning. However, the board's composition limits its
potential to improve operations. In 2002, members included: two Secretaries (Ministry o f
 Communication and Finance Division), a Planning Commission Member (Infra Division), the
Director General o f BR, two nonvoting BR officers, and two private sector representatives. With
 a majority o f members as government officials or employees, BRA i s not the independent
 organization that reformers had envisioned. Inrecent years, the Ministry o f Communication has
 assumed the board's responsibilities and made it redundant, leading to an end of regular
meetings.

Railway Stakeholder Analysis
 142.    Based on past experience, successful reform o f the Bangladesh Railway will require the
government to engage stakeholders including employees, passengers, and private businesses, and
to build on consensus by enacting permanent legislation. Past governments have struggled to
reform the railway because resistant stakeholders stalled implementation or pressured the
government to avoid reform altogether.

 143.    Railway Employees. Railway employees are a well organized interest group. A reform
plan must address their interests to ensure cooperation, continuity, and improved service.
Because public sector compensation is based largely on tenure o f employment, staff, in BR's


~




31ADB, ProgramPerformanceAudit Report on theRailway RecovelyProgram in Bangladesh, (Loan 1320-BAN),
2002.


                                                58

eight registered trade unions, and officers, in the Bangladesh Civil Service may resist reforms
that could jeopardize their careers. The hierarchical structure o f transport departments leads to
managerial instability, allowing staff, invested inthe current structure, to resist reforms untilnew
managers take office. Below market compensation and non-merit based promotions discourage
the most able managers from public service. Past reforms mitigated employee opposition by
offering large compensation packages to redundant workers when downsizing the labor force.
While this method achieved its goal o freducing costs, it encouraged skilled workers to leave and
didnot buildinincentives to motivateworkers inthe future.

144.    As government employees and members o f the Bangladesh Civil Service, railway
workers are tied to the same pay scales and employment rules as the rest o f the public sector. A
World Bank report, Public Sector Compensation and Employment Issues (2005 draft),
documents the conventions o f public employment in Bangladesh, many o f which may not be
appropriate for a railway trying to maximize service at minimal cost. Automatic annual pay
increases and tenure based movements to higher salary grades are the reward for continued
employment. However, pay scale compression since 1972 has eroded the real income o f officers
by as much as 73 percent while marginally increasing the real income o f the lowest staff. The
current pay scales do not reflect the complexities, challenges, andrequired skills and experience
o fdifferent positions.

145.    The reform programs envisaged will improve the labor situation. A growing railway
entity could reward its staff through better compensation and opportunities for career advanced.
Skills would be more valued within a reforming and growing rather than within a declining
railway.

146.    Passengers. Although BRpassengersmight benefit from improved service under reform,
local groups might resist service cutbacks. Currently, local passenger trains are rarely punctual,
while intercity trains are more regular and produce greater revenue per passenger. While social
goals (serving the poor, assisting in national emergencies) may overrule efficiency and require
BRto continue operating unprofitable routes and to keep fares below cost, reformed accounting
practices would introduce business-like management practices and improve service while
providing subsidies to socially andimportant services.

147.    Private Sector. Private businesses are increasing their use o ftransportation inBangladesh
and exploring opportunities for partnerships with BR; engaging private businesses would both
enhance BR's financial position and directly contribute to investment and development in
Bangladesh. Despite economic growth in Bangladesh and below cost rates in some markets,
system wide freight traffic growth has been minimal in the last ten years. Trucking competition
reduces traffic and regional isolation prevents BR from engaging intransshipment to neighboring
countries. However, the Dhaka-Chittagong corridor, with nearly three times the container traffic
as ten years ago, demonstrates the potential for growth. Furthermore, private contracting in
ticketing, on-board services in Intercity trains, and maintenance, demonstrate the potential for a
commercial structure to reduce costs. Additional gains, such as investment projects, may not be
possible without reform. Reform will permit more partnerships with businesses which will
improve BR finances while contributing to growth inBangladesh.




                                                 59

Legal Framework

148.     Even when implemented, past reforms were often short lived because subsequent
governments could easily over-ride policies not enacted by legislation, which is more permanent.
Rather than building consensus on national railway policy, governments have alternately
established railway boards, and brought the railway back into the central government, without
parliamentary approval. The Railway Act o f 1890 is still the core legislation establishing
government involvement in the railways.32 The ad hoc establishment o f railway boards has
limited the credibility o f their autonomy. For reform to succeed, the government and opposition
must work together with railway employees, and other public and private groups, to establish
permanent legal autonomy for BR.




32Legal frameworks are out of date throughout the transport sector. Still relevant inthe road sector are the Toll Act
of 1851, and Highway Act of 1925. Ports are governed by the Ports Act of 1908 and the Port Rules of 1966.
Although there is some new legislation governing roads, most infrastructure laws are not relevant for modem
transport.




                                                      60


-    P



           ANNEX 4: MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
   ASIA DEVELOPMENT BANK, WORLD BANK AND JAPANBANK FOR
                 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION




                                                  J B I C




                 Memorandumof Understanding
                            Among
                    AsianDevelopmentBank,
                        World Bankand
             JapanBankfor InternationalCooperation
                             For
BangladeshRailwaySectorProgram:ReformandInvestmentComponents




                       September 14,2006




                              65

                                        I. OBJECTIVE

149. The objective this Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) is to outline a
     Development Partnership Framework between the Asian Development Bank (ADB),
     the World Bank (WB) and the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC)
     (hereinafter collectively referred to as the Development Partners) for coordinating and
     harmonizing their respective lending, technical assistance, and policy dialogue
     programs inBangladesh's railway sector.

                                       11.     BACKGROUND

150. The current Government o f Bangladesh (GOB) transport sector strategy, as laid in its
     National Land Transport Policy (NLTP) and a draft Integrated Multimodal Transport
     Policy (IMTP), gives more focus to the railway sector in order to develop a more
     balanced environmentally and socially sustainable transport system. GOB'Spolicy and
     strategy for railway envisages reform and modernization o f Bangladesh Railway,
     including transforming BRinto a government-owned corporate entity.

151. To achieve its development objective for the railway sector, GOB has started
     development partnership with the major donors inthe railway sector.

152. The Government o f Bangladesh (GOB) has requested the Asian Development Bank
     (ADB) to assist in financing the Bangladesh Railway Sector Program, and ADB has
     entered into a Framework Financing Agreement for the Railway Sector Investment
     Program (RSIP) with GOB, under which ADB will support BR under their Multi-
     tranche Financing Facility (MFF) with US$430 million loan, US$30 million under
     ADB's Asian Development Fund (ADF) loan to finance the costs o f the reform
     program and US$400 million under ADB's Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR) loan to
     finance BR's priority investment program. The proposed assistancewill be considered
     byADB's Boardon 10October 2006.

153. GOB has also requested the World Bank (WB) to assist in financing the BR reform
     and investmentprogram. WB will provide programmatic Development Policy Credit
     (DPC) in phases to support GOB for the implementation o f the Bangladesh Railway
     Reform Program (the Reform Program). The first Bangladesh Railway Reform
     Programmatic Development Policy Credit (BR-DPC1) is for US$40 million, under
     which WB will provide an International Development Association (IDA) financing
     facility to the Ministry o f Finance (MOF). When the reform conditions are met during
     the next two years, WB will provide a Second DPC for US$60 million. WB will also
     provide financing facility for an investment project to GOB with a proposed amount o f
     US$200 million after sufficient reform implementation has taken place. WB
     investment support will primarily focus on the Dhaka Chittagong Chord Line.

154. GOB has also requested Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) to assist in
     financing an investment project, for an approximate amount o f US$lOO million, as
     part o f the Reform Program. JBIC is currently preparing the Dhaka Chittagong
     Railway DevelopmentProject inline with the Reform Programprogress.



                                             66

155. The above multi-year, multi-donor railway support program to GOB and BR will
     provide about US$830 million inthe medium-term.

156. The Development Partners see the need to coordinate their respective operations in
     order to harmonize their support and ensure the efficacy of their support to Bangladesh
     Railway.

157. Through joint missions and several consultations and meetings, including one held in
     Tokyo on June 23, 2006, the Development Partners have prepared the following
     Development Partnership Framework.

                    111.   COOPERATION AND EXCHANGEINFORMATIONOF

158. The Development Partners have agreed on a UnifiedPolicy Matrix for the Bangladesh
     Railway Reform Program, as provided inAnnex 1.

159. The Development Partners will jointly support and monitor the implementation o f the
     UnifiedPolicy Matrix (Annex 1).

160. The Development Partners will link their investment programs for BR to satisfactory
     implementation progress o f the Reform Program as outlined in the Unified Policy
     Matrix.

161. ADB will provide fundingto finance consultancy services and equipment required for
     the implementationo fthe reformprogram from its ADF loan.

162. All the reform consultant's reports and outputs, computer systems, financed under the
     ADB loan will be reviewedby all Development Partners and BR, and their comments
     will be reflectedprior to the finalization o fthe consultant's reports and outputs.

163. Comments from Development Partners ,willbe provided either in a workshop and/or
     meeting format or through email exchange.

164. The Development Partners will give notice to each other if material and significant
     changes are to be made to their project design and their respective legal agreement
     with GOB.

165. The Development Partners will inform each other o f any event which interferes or
     threatens to interferewith the successful implementation o fthe ReformProgram.

166. Each Development Partner will remain its independent right o f making actions and
     decisions under its respective Framework FinancingLodCredit Agreements with
     GOB.

                 Iv.IMPLEMENTATION,MONITORINGEVALUATION  AND

167. The Development Partnerswill support that GOB formulate one steering committee to
     monitor the Reform Program, and participate in the committee as an observer, if so
     requested.

                                             67

168. The Development Partners will jointly develop a quarterly Reform Implementation
     Monitoring Framework and allocate adequate supervision budget to monitor the
     reformprogress.

169. The Development Partners will conduct joint supervision and implementationreview
     as practically as possible (minimum once a year), review consultant reports jointly,
     monitor the ReformImplementationMonitoringFrameworkjointly, and discuss future
     development programsjointly.

170. For individualmissions, the Development Partners will keep each other informed on
     the progress o f implementation o f the Reform and InvestmentPrograms and update the
     Reform Implementation Monitoring Framework, and share the results o f individual
     mission to all development partners.

                                 V. INVESTMENT    LOANS

171. The Development Partnerswill provide investment support only ifthe agreed triggers
     andprior actions have beenmet.

172. The Development Partners will provide investment support from the same BR's
     medium-tern Investment Program, as maybe updated from time to time.

173. The Development Partners will try to harmonize their environment and social
     safeguard frameworks.

174. The Development Partners will consult and agree on the technology o f railway
     support, including type o frolling stock andrailway gauge standard.

175. The Development Partners will support, to the extent possible, projects that are
     complimentary and near each other to maximize impact o fthe support.




                                             68

                                    VI. KEYCONTACTS

176.   The key contact personnel for communications andnotices required with regardto this
       MOUwill be as follows:

Prodyut Dutt, Transport Specialist (ADB)
6 ADB Avenue, Mandaluyong City, 1550Metro Manila, Philippines
Phone: + 63-2-632-6852
Email: pdutt@adb.org

Stefan Ekelund,Project Implementation Specialist (ADB)
BangladeshResidentMission (BRM),Asian Development Bank
Plot E-31, Sher-e-BanglaNagar, Dhaka 1207
BangladeshG.POBox No. 2100
Phone: +880-2-815 6000
Email: sekelund@adb.org

BinyamReja, Senior Transport Economist (WB)
1818HStreet, NW,Washington, DC 20433, U.S.A.
Phone: + 1202 458 5630
Email: Breja@worldbank.org

Asa Takashima, Country Officer (JBIC)
4-1Ohtemachi 1-Chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8144, Japan
Phone: + 81-3-5218-3659
Email: as-takashima@jbic.go.jp

This MOUhasbeenconfirmed bythe management of each Development Partner as follows:

 Asian Development Bank      World Bank                Japan Bank for International
                                                       Cooperation




 Kunio Senga                 BarbaraKafka              Ikuro Saito
 Director General            Acting Vice President     Director General
 South Asia Department       South Asia Region         DevelopmentAssistance II




                                            69

yl
S
0
.e
a8
Y



u
P
E
a
$




      0
      b

P


     M
     b



I

                                ANNEX 5: FUNDRELATIONSNOTE

On June 29, 2005, the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund(IMF) concluded
the Article lV consultation with Banglade~h.~~

Background

Since the last Article lV consultation, Bangladesh's economy has continued to expand,
supported by a stable macroeconomic environment and progress in implementing structural
reforms, broadly in line with the recommendations made by the Executive Board. Real GDP
growth i s projected at 5% percent in FY05 (ending June 30), reflecting a slight deceleration
from 5% percent in FY04 due to the impact o f devastating floods last July. The floods
damaged major crops, particularly rice. This, together with an upswing in global oil and
commodity prices, contributed to a surge in inflation inlate 2004, which has since moderated
andis projectedat an annual average of 6% percent inFY05.

As intheprevious two years, the fiscal stancehas beenprudent,with the overall budget deficit
estimated at 4.2 percent o f GDP inFY05 (from 3.2 percent inFY04), reflecting inpart flood
relief efforts. Revenue i s projected to increase by 16 percent inFY05 (compared to 9 percent
inFY04). This outcome, however, falls short of the revenue effort of '/z percentage point of
GDP in the FY05 budget, reflecting delays in the implementation o f tax administrative
reforms and lingering weaknesses in audit and collection enforcement. Total spending i s
projected to be 0.5 percent o f GDP lower than in the revised budget, on account o f lower-
than-projected development expenditure. The structure o f deficit financing remains sound,
with domestic financing capped at 2 percent o f GDP, whereas external financing continues to
beon concessional terms.

The external position strengthened in 2003-04, but pressures emerged at the beginning o f
2005. Export earnings have moderated since November 2004, reflecting mainly a sharp
decline inprices associated with the elimination o f the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) quotas
on January 1, 2005. Imports have grown rapidly due to higher oil and commodity prices, an
increase in food imports, and stronger demand for investment goods. Oil imports are
estimated to exceed forecast levels significantly. The external current account i s projected to
move to a deficit o f US$1.1 billion (or 1.8 percent o f GDP) in FY05, from near balance in
FY04.

Since floating the exchange rate in May 2003, the taka has depreciated by 9 percent and
5 percent innominal and real effective terms, which has helped boost the competitiveness of
Bangladesh's export sector. The authorities have confined their interventions to building
reserves andto countering disorderly market conditions during a period o f generally favorable
balance o f payment conditions. To ease the pressure from multiple external shocks in early


35 Under Article IV of the IMF's Articles of Agreement, the IMF holds bilateral discussions with members,
usually every year. A staff team visits the country, collects economic and fmancial information, and discusses
with officials the country's economic developments and policies. On returnto headquarters, the staff prepares a
report, which forms the basis for discussion by the Executive Board. At the conclusion o f the discussion, the
Managing Director, as Chairmano f the Board, summarizes the views o f Executive Directors, andthis summary i s
transmitted to the country's authorities.

                                                      74

2005, BangladeshBank (BB) sold some foreign exchange reserves in January while allowing
the taka to depreciate by 5 percent against the U.S. dollar. Taking into account higher
payments for oil imports, gross international reserves are projected at $2.7 billion at end-June
2005 (2.4 monthsof imports), after peaking at US$3.2 billionat end-2004.

Monetary policy has been supportive o f growth, but an accommodative stance in early 2005
contributed to pressures on the exchange market.Reflecting inpart lendingto the agricultural
sector for flood rehabilitation and strong demand for credit in a low interest rate environment,
reserve money growth has accelerated since late 2004, while growth o f private sector credit
and broad money have also increased sharply. A decline in real interest rates led to a
slowdown in the net sales o f treasury securities by BB, with many banks holding treasury
securities only up to the limit underthe Statutory LiquidityRequirement.

Good progress has been made in strengthening the banking system. BB has raised minimum
capital requirements, taken steps to reduce insider lending, and has improvedthe institutional
framework for the prudential supervision o f the financial system. As part o fthe reforms o f the
nationalized commercial banks (NCBs), the information memorandum for the divestment o f
Rupali Bank has been issued, management teams have been put in place for Sonali and
Agrani, and the contract for Janata Bank was signed recently. Performance under the
Memorandum o f Understanding between BB and the NCBs has been satisfactory, although
there i s scope for further increasingcash recoveries from the largest defaulters.

Reform o f tax administration has advanced, but has yet to translate into an acceleration o f
revenue growth. The institutional structures have been set up, including the Large Taxpayer
Units for income tax and VAT and the Central Intelligence Cell, but enforcement, audit and
collection efforts remain weak, reflecting capacity constraints and opposition from vested
interests. Extensive court injunctions on tax cases have undermined the finction o f the
National Board o f Revenue. Two benches in the High Court have now been created to deal
exclusively with tax cases andto expedite the clearingprocess.

Progress has been mixed in reforming the state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and their financial
conditions remain weak. On the positive side, the govemment adjusted prices for energy
products in December 2004 and January 2005, in line with pricing formulas agreed with the
World Bank. This helped reduce the financial losses of energy sector SOEs and improve their
viability. On the negative side, after initial success in the closure o f manufacturing SOEs in
FY03, further closure/downsizing of SOEs stalled due to difficult labor issues. But these loss-
making units can no longer resort to bank financing or budgetary resources and have been
encouraged to downsize through hiringfreezes and a voluntary retirement scheme.

Significant headway was made on trade reform in FY05 through a reduction in the level and
dispersion o f duties and a streamlining o f quantitative restrictions. The structure o f customs
duty rates was simplified to three slabs, with the top rate reduced by 5 percent to 25 percent,
and supplementary duties were reduced. These measures have significantly lowered the
dispersion o f custom duties. Quantitative restrictions were streamlined, with a simplification
of administrative procedures and a halving o fthe number o f restrictedproducts starting April
2005.




                                                75

Executive Board Assessment

The Executive Directors commended the Bangladesh authorities' efforts in maintaining
economic stability and in advancing the structural reform agenda, in spite o f a difficult
political environment and external shocks. Directors welcomed the buoyant economic growth,
moderate inflation, and the rise in international reserves since July 2004. Looking forward,
Directors underscored that Bangladesh faces the key challenges o f accelerating growth and
maintaining macroeconomic stability while overcoming the potentially significant impact o f
the MFA phaseout. They also noted that structural weaknesses-including        the country's low
revenuebase, weak infrastructure, and inefficient public enterprises-continue to pose serious
obstacles to private sector development. Directors therefore called for the continuation of core
reforms in tax administration, banking, and the energy sector, as well as improved
governance, to enhance the business environment, promote export diversification, and
facilitate economic recovery andpovertyalleviation.

Directors welcomed efforts to finalize Bangladesh's National Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper, which will serve as a roadmap for meeting the MillenniumDevelopment Goals. They
concurred with the PRSP's focus on fiscal reforms and the development o f anti-poverty
programs within the context o f a medium-term budgetary framework. However, they
acknowledged that the elimination o f the MFA quotas, the country's susceptibility to natural
disasters, and a confrontationalpolitical environment pose risks towards achieving this goal.

Directors were encouraged by the authorities' resolve to improve revenue mobilization
through strengthened tax administration andto support pro-poor expenditures while protecting
fiscal sustainability. They stressed that effective implementation o f tax administration
measures and strict enforcement are vital to the revenue effort, and will require strong
political support. Directors noted that modernizing the National Board o f Revenue (NBR)
along functional lines i s also a critical step toward developing a more effective tax
administration. They therefore welcomed the authorities' intention to implement the Strategic
Reform Plan for the NBR with World Bank assistance. Directors also stressed that current
expenditures need to be contained and the development budget strengthened through better
project selection, improved procurement management, and timely compliance with policy
conditions for project financing. Directors supported the govemment's intention to curtail and
phase over three years the public sector wage increases while protecting pro-poor
expenditures. The importance o f aligning such increases with civil service reform was
emphasized.

Directors expressed support for Bangladesh to maintain a flexible exchange rate system based
on market principles. They stressed that the system should be allowed to operate as intended,
especially during a time o f market pressures. Inview o f an adverse external environment and
exchange market pressures, Directors noted that this would be particularly important for
preserving competitiveness. They supported the authorities' intention to continue to confine
their interventions inthe exchange market to countering disorderly conditions, to abandon the
use o f suasion, and further develop the operations o f the exchange market.




                                                76

Directors noted that a tight monetary stance is important to contain inflationary pressures.
Inthis context, BB is encouraged to actively use open market operations to ensure adequate
liquidity management and to allow interest rates to increase in order to ensure sufficient
demand for treasury securities. Directors also encouraged BB to implement further
improvements in the fimctioning o f the interbank and treasury bill markets, as recommended
by the recent Fund technical assistance mission. Reactivating the primary dealer system and
deepening the secondary market for treasury securities are important steps inthis regard.

Directors were encouraged by the progress achieved in reforming and divesting the NCBs.
Taking Rupali Bank to the point o f divestment is a significant demonstration o f the
authorities' commitment to bank reform. Directors added that recent efforts to improve the
supervision and regulation o f the banking system will reduce financial vulnerabilities and
enhance the allocation o f capital. They stressedthe importance o f ensuring that banks meet all
prudential regulations, including on net open limits on foreign exchange transactions.

Directors welcomed the authorities' commitment to further trade reform, particularly in view
o f the competitive challenges in a post-MFA environment. The reduction and rationalization
o f trade taxes in FY05 have helped to enhance competitiveness and reduce anti-export bias.
The streamlining o f the supplementary duty system in the FY06 budget, together with a
significant reduction in quantitative restrictions and the removal o f restrictions on foreign
direct investment in the ready-made-garment sector outside the export processing zones, are
steps in the right direction. Directors noted that it would be desirable to further simplify the
supplementarydutyregime.

Directors encouraged the authorities to work with the World Bank and the Asian
Development Bank toward implementing a restructuring plan to improve the operational and
financial performance o f the energy sector SOEs. Measures to reform the power sector
distribution system, particularly those under Dhaka electric system authority's current
network, are key to this strategy. This will require intensified efforts to reduce system losses
through enhancedmonitoring andimproved bill collection.

Directors noted that, in light o f rising global fuel prices and the weak financial position o f
energy sector SOEs, the adjustments on domestic fuel prices in the first half o f 2005 are
appropriate. However, they underscored that the authorities need to keep domestic fuel prices
under close review and make further adjustments as needed. The impact o f higher domestic
fuel prices on the poor can be reduced bywell-targeted andtransparent transfers to them.

Directors welcomed the recent establishment o f the Anti-Comption Commission. Concerted
follow-up actions are required to make the Commission function effectively so as to enhance
its credibility. In this respect, developing an anti-comption strategy with technical assistance
from donors would be an important step to tackle governance issues and help improve the
investment climate.




                                                77

                                   Bangladesh: Key Economic Indicators, FY2001-06 1/
                                                                                                            Proj
                                                          2000101     2001/02    2002103     2003104  2004105  2005106
National income and prices (percent change)
Real GDP                                                        5.3        4.4         5.3        5.5     5.2      6.0
GDP deflator                                                     1.6       2.7         4.4        5.5     6.0      5.5
CPIinflation (annual average) 2/                                 1.6       2.8         4.4        5.8     6.5      6.0

Central government operations (percent o f GDP)
Total revenue                                                   9.0       10.2        10.3       10.1    10.5     11.0
Tax                                                             7.6        7.7         8.3        8.2     8.6      8.9
Nontax                                                           1.4       2.4         2.0        1.9     1.9      2.0
Total expenditure                                               14.8      14.9        13.7       13.3    14.7     15.2
Current expenditure                                              7.7       8.0         8.1        7.7     8.6      8.4
Ofwhich: Interestpayments                                        1.6       1.8         1.9        1.6     1.8      1.6
Annual Development Program                                       6.5       5.6         5.4        5.0     5.3      5.7
Other expenditures 3/                                            0.6       1.3         0.2        0.6     0.8      1.1
Overall balance (excluding grants)                              -5.1      -4.7        -3.4       -3.2    -4.2     -4.2
Primary balance                                                 -3.5      -2.9        -1.5       -1.6    -2.4     -2.6
Financing (net)                                                  5.1       4.7         3.4        3.2     4.2      4.2
Domestic                                                         3.1       2.6         1.3        2.1     2.0      2.0
External                                                         2.0       2.1         2.1        1.1     2.2      2.2

Total central government debt (percent o f GDP)                50.8       52.9        51.0       48.3    47.9     48.3

Money and credit (end o f year; percent change)
Net domestic assets                                            20.2       11.9        12.2       13.4    14.8     13.5
Private sector                                                  16.3      13.9        12.6       12.0    14.7     13.2
Broadmoney (M2)                                                 16.6      13.1        15.6       13.8    14.2     12.8

Balance o fpayments (inbillions o fU.S. dollars) 4/
Exports, f.0.b.                                                  6.4       5.9         6.5        7.5     7.8      8.0
(Annual percent change)                                         11.4      -7.6         9.5       15.8     4.1      2.0
Imports, f.0.b.                                                  9.4       7.7         8.7        9.8    11.6     12.3
(Annual percent change)                                         11.4      -8.7        13.0       13.0    18.0      6.2

Gross official reserves (inbillions ofU.S. dollars)              1.3       1.6         2.5        2.7     2.7      2.7
Inmonths ofimports o fgoods andnonfactor services                1.7       2.1         2.9        2.8     2.4      2.2

Memorandumitem
Nominal GDP (inbillions o f taka)                             2,535      2,732       3,005      3,345   3,731    4,171

Sources: Data provided by the Bangladesh authorities; and IMF staff estimates and projections.
11Fiscal year begins July 1.
2/ CPIhas recently beenrebased using FY96 weights.
3/ Consists o f other capital, net lending, and food accounts (including check float and discrepancy).
4/ Balance ofpayments i s presentedonthe basis ofBPMS.




                                IMFEXTERNALRELATIONS DEPARTMENT
                                PublicAffairs: 202-623-7300 - Fax:202-623-6278
                              MediaRelations:202-623-7100 - Fax: 202-623-6772


                                                            78

                        ANNEX 6: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE

                         Bangladeshat a glance

POVERTY andSOCIAL                               south    Low-
                                     Bangladesh  Asia  income      Development diamond'
2 0 5
                                          141.8  1,447   2,343
                                           470    590     510                  L#eexxpedancy
                                           663    859    1.188   I                  T
                                            1.9    1.7     z.9
                                            2 2    2.1     2 2


                                             50
                                             25    29      3t
                                             62    63      58                       L
                                            46     66      79
                                             52    49      43           Accessto impwedwater source
                                             75    84      75
                                             41    61      61
                                             96    103     1M)
                                             94    108     105
                                             98    97      94


                                           9995  2054    205
                                           37.9  56.6     60.0
                                           19.1  24.0     24.4
                                           10.9   15.5    la1
                                           126    18.7    17.9
                                           18.6  24.6     29.7
                                           -1.8    0.3    4.5
                                            0.5    0.3     0.4
                                           420   35.4     353
                                           14.2    8.0     83
                                                 24.9
                                                 118.4

                                           2e#4  2055 m5m

                                            6.3    5.4     6 2
                                            4.3    3.5     4.4
                                           125   11.9     10.0


m C T U R E of theECONOMY

@HwPJ                              '985    w95   2004    2005
                                                                                        -
Agnmule                             2 8    264    210     205
-bv                                214     246    266     280
  Mgufachfnng                       142    153   16.1     17.0
SeNlCea                            458     491   524      515
HanehordfinJaxlsumabmemendi4ue     072     027   758      766
G ~ H ZpwrhslmnsimptionexpenBhre
       ~ I                          4 2     4.6    5.5     55              -(ICF

                                                                                                   II
                                 198595 499505   m 4     zoo5      Gmwthofexportsand imports(%)

                                    2.2     37     4.1     0.3   1 -,:
                                    6.3     6.8    7.6     8.5     to
                                    6.3     6.0    7.1     8.4
                                    3.7     5.3    5.7     6.1
                                    3.2     3.2    4.6     4.8
                                    4.0     7.3  10.7      4.9
                                    6.3     8.7    9.2     6.8
                                    5.6     4.7  10.6     10.7




                                              79


 Directors noted that a tight monetary stance i s important to contain inflationary pressures.
 Inthis context, BB is encouraged to actively use open market operations to ensure adequate
 liquidity management and to allow interest rates to increase in order to ensure sufficient
 demand for treasury securities, Directors also encouraged BB to implement further
 improvements in the functioning o f the interbank and treasury bill markets, as recommended
by the recent Fund technical assistance mission. Reactivating the primary dealer system and
deepening the secondary market for treasury securities are important steps inthis regard.

Directors were encouraged by the progress achieved in reforming and divesting the NCBs.
Taking Rupali Bank to the point o f divestment is a significant demonstration o f the
authorities' commitment to bank reform. Directors added that recent efforts to improve the
supervision and regulation o f the banking system will reduce financial vulnerabilities and
enhance the allocation of capital. They stressed the importance of ensuring that banks meet all
prudential regulations, including on net open limits on foreign exchange transactions.

Directors welcomed the authorities' commitment to further trade reform, particularly in view
o f the competitive challenges in a post-MFA environment. The reduction and rationalization
o f trade taxes in FY05 have helped to enhance competitiveness and reduce anti-export bias.
The streamlining o f the supplementary duty system in the FY06 budget, together with a
significant reduction in quantitative restrictions and the removal o f restrictions on foreign
direct investment in the ready-made-garment sector outside the export processing zones, are
steps in the right direction, Directors noted that it would be desirable to further simplify the
supplementary duty regime.

Directors encouraged the authorities to work with the World Bank and the Asian
Development Bank toward implementing a restructuring plan to improve the operational and
financial performance o f the energy sector SOEs. Measures to reform the power sector
distribution system, particularly those under Dhaka electric system authority's current
network, are key to this strategy. This will require intensified efforts to reduce system losses
through enhanced monitoring and improved bill collection.

Directors noted that, in light o f rising global fuel prices and the weak financial position o f
energy sector SOEs, the adjustments on domestic fuel prices in the first half o f 2005 are
appropriate. However, they underscored that the authorities need to keep domestic fuel prices
under close review and make further adjustments as needed. The impact o f higher domestic
fuel prices on the poor can be reducedbywell-targeted and transparent transfers to them.

Directors welcomed the recent establishment o f the Anti-Corruption Commission. Concerted
follow-up actions are required to make the Commission function effectively so as to enhance
its credibility. In this respect, developing an anti-corruption strategy with technical assistance
from donors would be an important step to tackle governance issues and help improve the
investment climate.




                                                77

                                   Bangladesh:Key Economic Indicators,FY2001-06 1/
                                                                                                           Proj.
                                                         2000101     2001102    2002103     2003104  2004105  2005106
National income and prices (percent change)
Real GDP                                                        5.3       4.4         5.3        5.5     5.2      6.0
GDP deflator                                                    1.6       2.7         4.4        5.5     6.0      5.5
CPI inflation (annual average) 21                               1.6       2.8         4.4        5.8     6.5      6.0

Central government operations (percent o f GDP)
Total revenue                                                   9.0      10.2        10.3       10.1    10.5     11.0
Tax                                                             7.6       7.7         8.3        8.2     8.6      8.9
Nontax                                                          1.4       2.4         2.0        1.9     1.9      2.0
Total expenditure                                              14.8      14.9        13.7       13.3    14.7     15.2
Current expenditure                                             7.7       8.0         8.1        7.7     8.6      8.4
Of which: Interest payments                                     1.6       1.8         1.9        1.6     1.8      1.6
Annual Development Program                                      6.5       5.6         5.4        5.0     5.3      5.7
Other expenditures 31                                           0.6       1.3         0.2        0.6     0.8      1.1
Overall balance (excluding grants)                             -5.1      -4.7        -3.4       -3.2    -4.2     -4.2
Primary balance                                                -3.5      -2.9        -1.5       -1.6    -2.4     -2.6
Financing (net)                                                 5.1       4.7         3.4        3.2     4.2      4.2
Domestic                                                        3.1       2.6         1.3        2.1     2.0      2.0
E xtema1                                                        2.0       2.1         2.1        1.1     2.2      2.2

Total central government debt (percent o f GDP)                50.8      52.9        51.0       48.3    47.9     48.3

Money and credit (endo f year; percent change)
Net domestic assets                                            20.2      11.9        12.2       13.4    14.8     13.5
Private sector                                                 16.3      13.9        12.6       12.0    14.7     13.2
Broadmoney (M2)                                                16.6      13.1        15.6       13.8    14.2     12.8

Balance of payments (inbillions o fU.S. dollars) 41
Exports, f.0.b.                                                 6.4       5.9         6.5        7.5     7.8      8.0
(Annual percent change)                                        11.4      -7.6         9.5       15.8     4.1      2.0
Imports, f.0.b.                                                 9.4       7.7         8.7        9.8    11.6     12.3
(Annual percent change)                                        11.4      -8.7        13.0       13.0    18.0      6.2

Gross official reserves (inbillions o f U.S. dollars)           1.3       1.6         2.5        2.7     2.7      2.7
Inmonths ofimports ofgoods andnonfactor services                1.7       2.1         2.9        2.8     2.4      2.2

Memorandum item
Nominal GDP (inbillions o f taka)                           2,535       2,732       3,005      3,345   3,731    4,171

Sources: Data provided by the Bangladesh authorities; and IMF staff estimates and projections.
11Fiscal year begins July 1.
21CPI has recently beenrebased using FY96weights.
31Consists o f other capital, net lending, and food accounts (including check float and discrepancy).
41Balance o fpayments is presented on the basis o f BPM5.




                               IMFEXTERNALRELATIONS DEPARTMENT
                               Public Affairs: 202-623-7300 - Fax: 202-623-6278
                             Media Relations: 202-623-7100 - Fax: 202-623-6772


                                                           78

                  ANNEX 6: COUNTRYAT A GLANCE

                  Bangladesh at a glance                                   51t o m



POVERTY andSOCIAL                           south
                               Bangtadesh   &ia
2006
                                     141B   1.447
                                      470    $80
                                     66 3    a59


                                       19     1 7
                                      2 2     2 1


                                       M
                                       25      29
                                       62      63
                                       4h      66
                                       52      43
                                       75      S4
                                       41      61
                                       %      103
                                       94     `0.3
                                       38      97


                                     1985   2004      2006   I
                          21 t;      37s     sf36      Ea o
                           I S6 t3;  19.1    24 0      24 4
                                     109     15 5      18 1       'rada
                             B E     12ci    24,e
                                             ? a t     17.B
                           134       136               2%.r
                           -2 b       -1,B    0 3      -@- 5
                            O E       0 5     0 3       0 4
                          3c.b       42 0    35 4      35 3
                          21 0       14I      a,o       3.3
                                             24 3
                                            1184

                                     2004   2005   2!305-09

                                      46 3
                                        3     5 4
                                              3 5
                                     12 5    119



                          1385       1995   2004      2005

                          32 B       28.4    210       20 5
                          3 . 4      246     338       25:
                           14 2      15.3    $ 6 1     I T 3
                          4: 3       491     524       $ 1 5
                          37 2       927     758       76.e
                            4:        4 6     3 5       5 E
                           132       17.3    20.8      22.5

                        1985.96 199555      2004      2005

                            2 2       3.7     4,1       c.3
                            8.3       6?3     7 8       e 5
                            $ 3       6 0     7.1       8 4
                            3.7       5 3     S t       6 1
                            3.2       3 2     4 5       4 8
                            4.D       7 1    107        `55
                            6 2       8 7     92        E 8
                            5 E       4 7    106       107




                                        79

 19815     1995       2089


             89          4 3
  19 1       7 3         4.2


   6 2       93        10 1
  -615
     0      -52 25      -32.42


 998%      1995       20P4        2005

   940   3 464        B,%Y       8 5?3
   151        78
   5770i 2 821
            225
                      6523       7,530
 2 847   5.3%         9,871     1 1.SE5
   607      433
   339      2009
   691   1,480        x1,077a
                        a        4 341
    41        83        115         1if
    44        77        135         131
    95      108           8Y        E'$


 1985      1985       2004        2003

 7.162   4.1 30                  6,640
 2.884              t 3.445
                      2.6338   f3,560
-1.702  .2d"580
            4%      .3.893      -3.820   0

   -gtj     -4 1      -376        &;
 1.173   3  e:?       3,793      4,145    1

 -613                   176       -36E
  5771     B:*s6          59       475
            452       -235        .is0

         3.001       2 114       2,941
 %Q         402       53 8        61 4


 1985      1985       2089        2003

6$M 15.824          20,016     2t,,IB0
    55        55           D          0
2018     5.638       8 845       9,624
  352       784         345      :.Io5
     3         8           R          0
    22        64        293        222

  972       4%          329
  548       253         557
                         -16
     i)        $3       3%
     0        61           rj                  c ?GI

  376       359
  279       'i98
     6        413
  273       152
    79        16
  2%        1cbj        3%




                  80

                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 33368
                To Gangtok
   88E                                          89E                    BHUTAN                   90E                                 91E                   BANGLADESH
                                                                                                                                                                             DISTRICT CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                             DIVISION CAPITALS
                                                                                         To
                                                                                        Dispur
                                 Panchagar                                                                                                                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL

 To                                                                                                                                                                          RIVERS
Patna                  PANCHAGAR
                                                                                                                                 BANGLADESH
                                                           LALMONIRHA                                                                                                        MAIN ROADS
 26N         Thakurgaon                NILPHAMARI                                                                                                                           RAILROADS
          THAKURGAON                        Nilphamari                   Lalmonirhat
                                                                       T                                                                                                     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                               Kurigram
                                                       Rangpur                                                                                                               DIVISION BOUNDARIES
   To                                                                       KURIGRAM
 Katihar                            Dinajpur             RANGPUR                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                        DINAJPUR                                                       To
                                                                                                    Goalpara                        I N D I A
    To
  Katihar                                                             Gaibandha                                                                                    To      92E                 To
                                                                                                                                                                  Dispur
                                                                      GAIBANDHA                                                                                                                Dispur

                                                 JOYPURHAT
                                                                                                    SERPUR
                                                    Joypurhat                                                                               Sunamganj
 25N                                                                                                                                                                   SYLHET
                                NAOGAON                                                              Serpur                                                                                                  25N
                                                                                                                         NETROKONA               SUNAMGANJ        Sylhet
                               Naogaon                                 BOGRA              Jamalpur
                                                                        Bogra
                                 R A J S H A H I                                              JAMALPUR                       Netrokona
                                                                                                                Mymensingh                              S Y L H E T
        NOWABGANJ                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Silchar
                                                                                                              MYMENSINGH
                   Nowabganj                                                     Jam

                            RAJSHAHI                                               muuna                    D H A K A               Kishorganj                    MOULVI BAZAR
                                                                                                                                                                   Moulvi Bazar
             Ganges             Rajshahi                                  Serajganj
                                                     Natore                                                                                         HABIGANJ
                                                                        SERAJGANJ                                                 KISHORGANJ
                                                  NATORE                                            TANGAIL

                                                                                                  Tangail                                            Habiganj


                                                                  PABNA
                                                                   ABNA                                            GAZIPUR

                                                                 Pabna                                                      NARSINGDI
 24N                                                                                                             Gazipur                                                                                    24N
                                                                                                                            Narsingdi
   I N D I A                                KUSHTIA      Kushtia                           Manikanj       DHAKA                      MegBRAHMAN
                                                                                                                                       hna                                             I N D I A
                                                                                                                                            Brahmanbaria


                                  Meherpur                                                                                                BARIA
                                                                                    Rajbari   MANIKGANJ
                       MEHERPUR                                                                                       NARAYNGANJ
                                                                                                                           YNGANJ
                                           Chuadanga                     RAJBARI                         DHAKA          Naraynganj

                                  CHUADANGA                                                    Faridpur                            COMILLA
                                                             Jhenaidah
                                                                      Magura                                MUNSHIGANJ Munshiganj
                                                JHENAIDAH                                FARIDPUR
                                                                                          ARIDPUR
                                                                   MAGURA                                     Ganges                     Comilla

 To                                                                                                           SARIATPUR
Calcutta                                                                                                                    CHANDPUR
                                                                                                                 Sariatpur
                                                  Jessore                 Narail                            Madaripur      Chandpur                                               Khagrachhari
                                                                          NARAIL                    MADARIPUR
                                                       JESSORE                             GOPALGANJ                                                                     KHAGRACHHARI
 23N                                               K H U L N A                               Gopalganj                                                Feni                                                  23N
                                                                                                                              LUXMIPUR
                                                                                                                                                     FENI
                                                                              Khulna                        BARISAL             Luxmipur  NOAKHALI

                                                                                                                                           Noakhali                                   RANGAMATI
                                                      Satkhira      KHULNA                        PEROJPUR        Barisal   Bhola            C H I T T A G O N G
                                                                             Bagerhat             Jhalukathi
  To                                             SATKHIRA                                               JHALUKATHI                                                        Rangamati         Karnali
Calcutta                                                                          BAGERHAT          Perojpur                                                                                Reservoir
                                                                                                      B A R I S A L                                            CHITTAGONG

                                                                                                                 Patuakhali   BHOLA

                                                                             e      l      t  a                 PATUAKHALI                                 Chittagong
                                                                                                          Barguna
                         G       a    n     g      e    s               D
                                                                                                    BARGUNA                                                                               Bandarban


 22N                                                                                                                                      s                                              Mt. Mowdok         22N
                                                                                   s                                               g                                                          (957 m)
                                                                       b  a  n                                                          e

                                                         d         r                                                         a   n

                                            S   u    n        a
                                                                                                               t h e      G
                                                                                                                                                                                           BANDARBAN
                                                                                                    o   f                                                                COX'S
                                                                                                                                                                         COX'S

                                                                     M    o  u    t     h    s                                                                           BAZAR


                                                                                                                                                                 Cox's Bazar
                 0 10 20 30 40 50 Kilometers
                                                                                                              B a y o f B e n g a l
                 0     10       20     30     40       50 Miles                                                                                                                               MYANMAR
         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
 21N    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                     21N
         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                              89E                                                90E                                  91E                                    92E                 Sittwe

                                                                                                                                                                                                     SEPTEMBER 2004

