Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB2518 
Operation Name 
Bangladesh Railway Reform Programmatic Development Policy Credit 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Railways (100%) 
Project ID 
P100330 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND BANGLADESH RAILWAY 
Government of Bangladesh 
Bangladesh 
Ministry of Finance 
Room 13, Block 16, Sher-e-Bangla Nagar 
Dhaka 
Bangladesh 
Tel: 9119308 
Fax: 9119606 
secy_erd@bangla.net
Bangladesh Railway 
16 Abdul Gani Road 
Dhaka 
Bangladesh 
Tel: 9561200, 9565734  Fax: 9563413 
dg_rail@bangla.net 
Date PID Prepared 
August 31, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
August 28, 2006 
Date of Board 
Approval 
October 19, 2006 
1.  
Country and Sector Background 
 
1. 
Bangladesh has achieved some remarkable economic and social development progress in recent 
years. GDP growth averaged 5.4 percent per annum over the FY01-05 period. Similarly, social indicators 
have improved: gross primary school enrollment has reached 98 percent, and gender disparity in primary 
and secondary enrollment has been eliminated. Food security has improved markedly, even for the very 
poor. The share of the population in poverty declined from 59 percent in 1990 to 50 percent in 2000.   
Bangladesh’s gains have taken place despite widely held perceptions of weak governance
1
.
On most 
perceptions-based governance indicators, Bangladesh ranks low, especially for control of corruption, 
regulatory quality and rule of law.  However, as the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bangladesh 
notes, understanding Bangladesh’s success in an environment of perceived poor governance requires 
unbundling the broad concept of governance, recognizing that Bangladesh has had both successes and 
failures, and that it needs a more nuanced interpretation of the governance indicators. 
2. 
A poor governance environment and inadequate infrastructure services are the two greatest obstacles 
to doing business in Bangladesh, according to an Investment Climate Assessment carried out in 2003.
2
1
For discussion on the conundrum of governance in Bangladesh, see the "Bangladesh CAS" (March 2006), 
PP 3-9.  
2
Bangladesh:  Investment Climate Assessment (2003), World Bank.   
Page  2
2
The two obstacles are interrelated, as a poor governance environment affects the ability of sector 
institutions to provide effective and efficient infrastructure services.  Poor governance in the railway 
sector combined with poor infrastructure conditions has led to inadequate rail services for businesses and 
passengers, and thus hampering trade and investment in Bangladesh. The overarching objective of the 
proposed Bangladesh Railway Reform Programmatic Development Policy Credit (DPC) is to improve the 
governance structure within which the Bangladesh railway sector is organized and financed, and thus, 
improve a key infrastructure sector that would contribute to the overall improvement of the investment 
climate in the country.  
The Railway Sector
3. 
Transport sector spending has been one of the largest development expenditures in Bangladesh
,
averaging about 27 percent of the total Annual Development Plan (ADP) in FY2003-05 period, and 1.5 
percent of GDP. Yet, despite the significant investments (albeit mostly in the road sector), the transport 
system is considered deficient by users. The quality of the vast road network is poor, often single or 
intermediate lanes, with only 40 percent of the major road network (RHD network) in good condition. 
Congestion and safety are major concerns; modern logistics systems and multimodal transport systems 
are rarely employed.  The port sector
 
and associated land transport systems (road and rail connection to 
the port) have been a major deterrent to trade. In recent years, several reports on the port sector have 
highlighted the problems of Chittagong Port and its effect on trade. 
4. 
Traffic and Market Share.
 
BR carried 42.3 million passengers and 3.2 million tons of freight during 
the 2003-2004 oper
ating year. Rail’s market share has been declining; BR provides less than 17 percent 
of the total passenger transport and 15 percent of freight transport in the country, down from 20 and 17 
percent, respectively in 1985. This, however, is a national estimate, and in some market segments the 
rail’s market share is higher and has some competitive advantages. For example, on the Dhaka – 
Chittagong corridor the rail’s market share for freight in terms of ton-km is about 24 percent. The average 
container tariff between Dhaka and Chittagong is about Tk400 per ton (though this is a regulated tariff), 
whereas the truck charge for the same is about Tk700 – 750 (for garment), in spite of the fact that the rail 
has a much longer travel distance (319km) than the road (245 km). 
 
5. 
BR is mostly a passenger transport system, with 83% of the train-km devoted to providing passenger 
services; yet, this is also the most money losing part of its operation. Both passenger and freight tariffs are 
fixed by the Government at a much lower level than the average cost of providing the services. The main 
commodities transported by BR are food grains, petroleum products, fertilizer and stones, and more 
recently containers. These freight service areas make up 70 percent of the rail freight traffic in 2005. BR’s 
container business is growing rapidly – at 10-15 percent per year in the last five years – and, now 
comprises 20 percent of BR’s freight revenue and operations.
 
6. 
Financial Performance.
 
In part due to its declining market share, increasing costs and regulated 
tariffs, BR has been running at a deficit. BR’s operating revenue for 2005 was Taka 4.5 billion and 
operating expense was Taka 7 billion, resulting in an operating deficit of Taka 2.5 billion and a working 
ratio of 156 percent. The proposed reforms are aimed at helping improve revenue for BR so that the 
deficits could be reduced and BR's financial situation could improve. 
Page  3
3
7. 
Business Incentives.
 
BR is the sole provider of rail infrastructure development and rail service in 
Bangladesh. It is a Government department in the Ministry of Communications, subject to government 
civil service rules and management. BR’s civil service department status has limited its managerial and 
operational autonomy and exacerbated its lack of commercial orientation. BR is not in a position to take 
business decisions, respond to changing market conditions and focus on profitable market segments 
where rail has a competitive advantage over other modes. 
8. 
Employment Structure.
 
The employment structure and personnel policies do not provide for an 
incentive system that rewards staff and operational units for providing cost-effective services and 
increasing rail's market share.  Promotions are awarded according to very rigid civil service rules, without 
sufficient regard to merit and performance. There is a high turnover rate within BR's top management, 
most of them are appointed towards their retirement age, and thus do not stay long enough in their 
positions to make significant management decisions.  
 
9. 
Operational Problems and Inadequate Maintenance. 
A
severe shortage of capacity exists on critical 
sections of the network especially the Dhaka-Chittagong corridor. On average, only about 40 percent of 
the annual maintenance requirement is met, causing huge maintenance backlogs. Frequent locomotive 
failures also consume needed track capacity. BR maintains its track manually following the 1958 
Bangladesh Railway Way and Works manual, which provides for only manual maintenance on old type 
tracks. A further operational problem is the increasing incidents of derailments on BR. The average 
annual number of derailments between 2001 and 2005 was 586, compared to 312 between 1996 and 
2000
3
.
2. Financing 
 
10.  The proposed Bangladesh Railway DPC is the first of two policy-based lending operations designed 
to support, in partnership with ADB and JBIC, the implementation of GOB’s railway reform program. 
The first Bangladesh Railway DPC is for US$40 million and is proposed for FY07 upon completion of 
the prior actions in the reform program.  The Second DPC will be for US$60 million and is planned for 
FY09 after completion of the triggers in the reform program. 
 
3. Operation 
Objectives 
 
11.  The Development Objective for the proposed Bangladesh Railway Reform DPC is to improve the 
governance structure within which BR operates, addressing both governance relationships between GOB 
and BR on the one hand, and corporate governance and management structure within the railways 
organization on the other.  The reform program will have five interrelated components: 
 
(a) 
Restructuring BR by Line of Business (LOB). 
(b) 
Transform BR into a Government-Owned Corporate Entity.
 
(c) 
Improve Cost Accounting and Financial Reporting. 
(d) 
Improve Human Resources Management.  
(e) Operational 
Improvement. 
 
3
Bangladesh Railway Information Book (2005). 
Page  4
4
4. 
Rationale for Bank
’s Involvement 
 
12. 
Policy-based Lending.
 
The proposed Railway DPC will be the first major Bank operation in 
Bangladesh’s railway sector.  Because of the underlying importance of sector governance reforms for the 
success of any railway investment, the first Bank engagement in the sector is proposed as a policy-based 
lending to support reforms before substantial investments are undertaken. The long history of Bank 
engagement in railways worldwide suggests that institutional and governance improvements are 
fundamental for ensuring the efficacy of railway investment.  
13. 
Link to CAS.
 
The new CAS for Bangladesh makes governance a central focus of its strategy for 
supporting the two pillars of the PRSP
,
improving the investment climate
 and 
empowering the poor.  
The 
CAS also envisions an expanded support for infrastructure in order to facilitate private sector investment 
and promote trade.  The proposed Credit aligns itself with the CAS; in that, it addresses both sector 
governance issues and infrastructure development.  In improving railway governance, the proposed Credit 
will contribute to improving sector performance, as well as create a conducive environment for expanded 
government and donor investment in railways. 
 
14. 
Link to Development Support Credit (DSC).
 
The Bank has been supporting Government’s reform 
agenda through a series of DSCs, the first three of which were approved by the Board in 2003, 2004, and 
2005.  A fourth one is currently under preparation.  The DSCs support initiatives focusing on deepening 
governance reforms over time contributing to accelerating the rate of economic growth, employment 
creation and poverty reduction.  An area, which lies outside the immediate domain of the DSCs, is 
railway sector reform.  While the broader reform programs supported under the DSCs are complementary, 
the railway sector needs focused attention, as the scope of the reform program is too large and deep to be 
covered under an umbrella operation.   
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
15.  The overall coordination of the reforms will be the responsibility of both the Ministry of Finance 
(MOF) and the Ministry of Communications (MOC), and BR will carry out day-to-day implementation of 
the reform program.   
 
MOF/MOC Level.
 
Secretaries for MOF and MOC will co-chair a Steering Committee, which 
will be established to provide overall guidance for the implementation of the reform, and facilitate the 
coordination across Government departments that have a bearing on the reform program.  In addition, a 
focal person within MOC will be assigned to look after the day-to-day implementation of the reform 
program, liaise with Railways and facilitate decision making within the ministry.  The Steering 
Committee will have a compact with BR for the implementation of the reform program.  
 
BR Level.
 
A
Reform Implementation Team has been established in BR and is headed by the 
Additional Director General (M&CP).  It will be supported by consultants throughout the preparation and 
implementation of the program.  The team will liaise with various departments in BR and labor unions 
during the implementation of the reform.  It will have effective communication strategies to discuss the 
benefits and costs of the reform program with BR staff and field managers.  
 
Page  5
5
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
16. 
Benefits
.
Improving governance of BR would contribute to the economic development of 
Bangladesh by improving transport services, government finances, and the investment climate in 
Bangladesh.  Line of business structuring and performance incentives will focus management on 
customer service and improve transport for both passengers and freight.  New accounting and financial 
management systems will allow the Government to identify appropriate subsidies to achieve social goals 
while BR focuses on efficient operations. Reduced transport costs will improve the investment climate for 
small businesses as well as large-scale investment projects and provide efficient services to passengers. 
 
17.  At the end of the reform program, the following outcomes are envisaged:   
 
·
Increase in passenger and freight traffic. 
·
Increase in container freight traffic. 
·
Increase in labor productivity and asset utilization.   
·
Increase in operating revenue. 
·
Better user satisfaction of the railway services (user satisfaction survey will be carried out before 
and after reform implementation). 
 
18. 
Risks
.
The main risk associated with the proposed Credit is that BR and GOB do not implement the 
agreed reforms.  To avoid this scenario the Bank has developed a series of Risk Mitigation measures that 
include analysis of benefits and costs, linkage to future investment projects, effective communication 
between BR and the public, and upfront actions that would make it difficult for a future administration to 
reverse the reform programs.
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social
19.  The proposed reform program aims to improve the corporate governance and management structure 
within BR to make it more commercially and market oriented, thereby, creating a more conducive 
environment for investment in railway operations. I
n
line with the Government’s reform agenda being 
supported by the Bank through a series of DSCs, governance reforms and private sector investment in 
infrastructure will contribute to employment generation and poverty reduction. 
20.  Operational reforms in the railway sector can have distributional impacts, especially those related to 
employment and wages, passenger tariff increases, service quality and access.  To more systematically 
analyze the link between proposed policy reform and their poverty and social impacts, a Social Impact 
Assessment (SIA) will be carried out as part of the implementation of the reform program. The SIA will 
identify the range of social impacts (both positive and negative), and examine the distributional impacts 
of the reform program on different stakeholders with a particular focus on the poor and vulnerable. 
Page  6
6
Environmental Aspects
21.  The policy reforms supported by the proposed DPC will not cause any significant effect on the 
country’s environment and natural resources.  Detailed screening of the policy measures undertaken 
during identification and preparation indicates no direct environmental impact.  Proactive interventions to 
be supported under the proposed DPC will have a positive impact by enhancing BR’s capacity to mitigate 
negative environmental impacts and enhance positive effects of future investments and railway 
operations.  Positive outcomes are also expected in the form of introducing measures for better 
environmental management of the operations of the restructured company. 
22.  The proposed reform program provides an opportunity to add another dimension to operational 
improvement measures and enhance BR’s capacity to manage future adverse effects on environment. 
Economic benefits from developing capacity for environmental risk management and sustainable 
transport business include increased competitiveness, reduced remedial environmental cost, reduced 
investment cost and reduced liability to damage claims. To achieve this at policy and structural levels, the 
proposed Credit will support the following actions in the Policy Matrix:  
i. 
Conduct an Environmental Audit and Management Plan in order to determine the 
BR’s environmental baseline conditions; evaluate current institutional and legal framework for 
improved environmental performance; evaluate direct and indirect impacts and benefits of current 
and proposed operations and measures to bring BR operation in line with acceptable corporate 
standards. 
ii. 
BR authority to establish a Railways Environmental Unit with a basic staff of 
two environmental and two social specialists.  
8. Contact 
point
 
Contact : Binyam 
Reja 
 Title 
: 
Senior 
Transport 
Economist 
 
Tel 
:  (202) 458 5630 
 Fax 
: 
(202) 
522-2427 
 Email 
: 
Breja@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information, contact
:
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Facsimile:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
