Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB2391 
Operation Name 
Bangladesh Railways Reform Project 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Railways (100%) 
Project ID 
P100330 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND BANGLADESH RAILWAY 
Government of Bangladesh 
Bangladesh 
Ministry of Finance 
Room 13, Block 16, Sher-e-Bangla Nagar 
Dhaka 
Bangladesh 
Tel: 9119308 
Fax: 9119606 
secy_erd@bangla.net 
Bangladesh Railways 
16 ABDUL GANI ROAD  
DHAKA -1000, BANGLADESH 
Telehpne: 9561200, 9565734 Fax: 9563413  
Email:dg_rail@bangla.net 
Date PID Prepared 
June 20, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
Sept 30, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 28, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
1. 
A
poor governance environment and inadequate infrastructure services are two of the greatest 
obstacles to doing business in Bangladesh, according to an Investment Climate Assessment carried out in 
2003
1
.
Yet, the two are interrelated, as a poor governance environment affects the ability of sector 
institutions to provide effective and efficient infrastructure services. The Government of Bangladesh 
(GOB) has prepared an ambitious National Land Transport Policy (NLTP) designed to promote key 
reforms in the road and railway sectors.
2
The reforms supported under the proposed Development Policy 
Loan (DPL) are based on the NLTP and are designed to provide critical support to GOB to implement the 
railway reforms effectively. 
 
Recent Economic Development  
2. 
Bangladesh has achieved some remarkable economic and social development progress in recent 
years
3
.
GDP growth averaged 5.4 percent per annum over the FY01-05 period. Similarly, social indicators 
have improved: gross primary school enrollment has reached 98 percent, and gender disparity in primary 
and secondary enrollment has been eliminated. Food security has improved markedly, even for the very 
poor. The share of the population in poverty declined from 59 percent in 1990 to 50 percent in 2000. 
1
Bangladesh:  Investment Climate Assessment (2003), World Bank.   
2
Government Of Bangladesh: National Land Transport Policy (2004) 
3
For detailed analysis of recent economic developments in Bangladesh, see World Bank "Country Assistance 
Strategy (CAS) for Bangladesh" (approved by the Board on March 29, 2006).  
Page  2
2
Banglades
h뭩 gains have taken place despite widely held perceptions of weak governance
4
.
On most 
perceptions-based governance indicators, Bangladesh ranks low, especially for control of corruption, 
regulatory quality and rule of law. However, as the recently approved Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 
for Bangladesh notes, understanding Bangladesh뭩 success in an environment of perceived poor 
governance requires unbundling the broad concept of governance, recognizing that Bangladesh has had 
both successes and failures, and developing a more nuance interpretation of the governance indicators.  
 
Transport Sector Overview  
 
3. 
Transport sector spending has been one of the largest development expenditures in 
Bangladesh
,
averaging about 27 percent of the total Annual Development Plan (ADP) in the FY2003-05 
period and 1.5 percent of GDP. Yet, despite the significant investments (albeit mostly in the road sector), 
the transport system is considered deficient by users. The quality of the road network is poor, often single 
or intermediate lanes, and with only 40 percent of the major road network in good condition. The port 
sector and associated land transport system (road and rail connection to the port) have been a major 
deterrent for trade. Several reports in recent years on the port sector have highlighted the problems of 
Chittagong Port and its effect on trade.  
 
4. 
Multimodal coordination and investment planning is lacking, but recent pressure from the 
business community is changing this. 
Investment decisions in the transport sector often reflect the 
implementation capacity of sector agencies or lobbying efforts for expansion of roads in specific 
constituents. However, pressure from the business community and foreign investors has convinced the 
Ministry of Finance to allocate more resources to port and railway sectors, and improve the Dhaka 
Chittagong transport corridor. A new container terminal in Chittagong Port is in its final stages of 
construction. In addition, under a proposed World Bank financing, the Government plans to build a rail-
and road-based Inland Container Depot (ICD) near Dhaka to cater to the transport needs of the tradable 
sector of the economy.  
The Railway Sector  
5. 
Traffic and Market Share. 
Bangladesh Railways (BR) operates a mixed broad gauge and meter 
gauge network of 2855 route-km (4443 track-km). BR carried 42.3 million passengers and 3.2 million 
tons of freight during the 2003-2004 operating year. Rail뭩 mode share has been declining; BR provides 
less than 17 percent of the total passenger transport and 15 percent of freight transport in the country, 
down from 20 and 17 percent, respectively in 1985. This, however, is a national estimate, and in some 
market segments (such as Dhaka-Chittagong corridor and for some commodities), rail뭩 mode share is 
significantly higher. BR is mostly a passenger transport system, with 83 percent of the train-km devoted 
to providing passenger services. Yet, this is also the most money losing part of its operation. Both 
passenger and freight tariffs are fixed by the government at a much lower level than the average cost of 
providing the services. The main commodities transported by BR are food grains, petroleum products, 
fertilizer and stones, and more recently containers. BR뭩 container business is becoming a major growth 
area, growing at 10-15 percent per year in the last five years, and now accounts for 20 percent of BR뭩 
freight revenues and operations. 
6. 
Financial Performance.
 In part due to its declining market share, increasing costs and regulated 
tariffs, BR has been running at a deficit. BR뭩 operating revenue for 2004 was Taka 3.9 billion and 
operating expense was Taka 6.4 billion, resulting in an operating deficit of Taka 2.5 billion and a working 
ratio of 168 percent.  The proposed reforms are aimed at helping improve revenue for BR so that the 
deficits could be reduced and BR뭩 financial situation could improve.  
4
For a discussion on the conundrum of governance in Bangladesh, see the "Bangladesh CAS" (March 2006) PP 3-9.  
Page  3
3
7. 
Management Issues in Bangladesh Railways. 
Bangladesh Railways is the sole provider of rail 
infrastructure development and services in Bangladesh. It is a Government department in the Ministry of 
Communication (MOC), subject to government civil service rules and management. Its organizational 
structure is oriented around operations, with functional departments overlaid on a geographically defined 
regional operating str
ucture (East and West regions separated by the Jamuna River). BR뭩 civil service 
department status has limited its managerial and operational autonomy and exacerbated its lack of 
commercial orientation.  
8. 
Human resource planning lacks performance incentives. 
The employment structure and 
personnel policies do not provide for an incentive system that rewards staff and operational units for 
providing cost-effective services and increasing rail뭩 market share. Promotions are according to very 
rigid civil service rules, without regard to merit and performance. There is an extremely high turnover rate 
within BR's top management. At the mid and lower managerial level, transfers are frequent and carried 
out without regard for continuity and performance improvement.  
Word Bank Support for Bangladesh Railways  
9. 
Rationale for Policy-based Lending.
 
The proposed railway DPL will be the first major World 
Bank operation in Bangladesh뭩 railway sector. Because of the underlying importance of sector 
governance reforms for the success of any railway investment, the first Bank engagement in the sector is 
proposed as policy-based lending to support reforms before substantial investments are undertaken. The 
long history of World Bank engagement in railways worldwide suggests that institutional and governance 
improvements are fundamental for ensuring the efficacy of railway investment and improving its 
operational and financial performance.  
 
10. 
Link to 
Bangladesh뭩 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). 
The PRSP accords high 
priority to 
improving Bangladesh뭩 infrastructure in general and the transport sector in particular. The 
PRSP is quite critical of the fact that inadequate and poorly managed infrastructure services have been a 
drag on the performance of the economy and Bangladesh뭩 development effort for faster economic 
growth and poverty reduction. The PRSP further notes that the rail system could play a much greater role 
in meeting the growing transport demand in the country in a more environmentally and socially 
sustainable way.  
11. 
Link to World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). 
The new CAS for Bangladesh makes 
governance a central focus of its strategy for supporting the two pillars of the PRSP
,
improving the 
investment climate
 and 
empowering the poor. 
The CAS also envisions an expanded support for 
infrastructure in order to facilitate private sector investment and promote trade.  The proposed project 
aligns itself with the CAS in that it addresses both sector governance issues and infrastructure 
development. In improving railway governance, the proposed DPL will contribute to improving sector 
performance, as well as create a conducive environment for expanded government and donor investment 
in railways.  
12. 
Collaboration with other Development Partners.
 The proposed project will be supported in 
partnership with ADB and JBIC. The 2006 CAS envisages that the three development partners would 
support the same Reform Matrix for BR and link their investment lending to progress in the reform 
program.  
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
13. 
The Development Objective of the proposed DPL is to improve the governance structure within 
which Bangladesh Railways operates, addressing both governance relationship between GOB and BR on 
the one hand, and corporate governance and management structure within the railways organization on 
the other.  At the end of the reform program, the following outcomes are expected:  
Page  4
4

Increase in freight and passenger traffic  

Increase in labor productivity and asset utilization   

Improved operating ratio and reduction in operating deficit 

Improved safety and operational performance    

Better user satisfaction of the rail system (user satisfaction survey will be carried out before and 
after project implementation)  
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
14. 
Proposed Reforms.
 
The overall goal of the reform program supported under the proposed DPL is 
to: (a) clarify the 
governance relationship between GOB and BR so as to increase BR뭩 autonomy and 
accountability; (b) improve the corporate governance and management structure within BR so that BR is 
more commercially and market oriented; and (c) create a conducive environment for investment in 
railway operations. The reform program has five interrelated components: (i) restructuring BR by line of 
business organization, (ii) transforming BR into a government-owned corporate entity, (iii) improving 
cost accounting and financial reporting, (iv) improving human resource planning and incentives, and (v) 
improving operation and maintenance performance. 
 
4. Environment 
Aspects 
 
15. 
Under the Bangladesh뭩 Environment Preservation Rules (1995 plus amendments) Ministry of 
Communication and BR are required to undertake EA for any form of projects with significant impacts on 
environment. This includes construction of new track, maintenance facilities, fuel storage yards etc. Both 
agencies have limited capacity for carrying out EA including implementation of environmental 
management action plan. Therefore, MOC and BR would need to strengthen their environmental 
management capacity for future Bank support to BR뭩 investment program. A critical mass of 
environmental expertise would need to be established in BR to address both environmental and social 
effects stemming from BR operation. Similarly, a number of steps towards sustainable railway business, 
in the medium and long terms, must be defined prior to transforming BR into a government owned 
corporate entity to address a number of areas of environmental concerns which have been defined as 
follows:  
 

Noise and vibration 

Environmental safety: prevention of spillage and ground and surface water contamination   

Energy consumption and air pollution 

Transportation of substances and materials  

External safety when transporting dangerous goods 

Implementation of environmental conservation activities to prevent direct and indirect habitat 
loss. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
50 
 Total 
50 
 
6. Contact 
point 
 
Contact : Binyam 
Reja 
Title 
:  Senior Transport Economist, Task Team Leader  
Tel : 
(202) 
458-5630 
Fax : 
(202) 
522-2418 
Page  5
5
Email : 
Breja@worldbank.org
 
