                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001041




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IDA-42350)




                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 27.0 MILLION
                      (US$ 40.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                    FOR A

    BANGLADESH RAILWAY REFORM PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT
                                POLICY CREDIT




                                 April 16, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
World Bank Office: Dhaka, Bangladesh
South Asia Region

         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

    (Exchange Rate Effective at March 31, 2009)


        Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka
             US$ 1.00 = Taka 69.00

                 FISCAL YEAR
                 July 1 to June 30

     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB       Asian Development Bank
ADP       Annual Development Program
BR        Bangladesh Railway
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GOB       Government of Bangladesh
IMTP      Integrated Multi Modal Transport Policy
IWT       Inland Water Transport
JICA      Japan International Cooperation Agency
KPI       Key Performance Indicators
MOC       Ministry of Communication
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MOU       Memorandum of Understanding
NSAPR     National Strategy for Accelerated Poverty Reduction
NLTP      National Land Transport Policy
PMA       Performance Management Agreement
PSO       Public Service Obligation




          Vice President: Isabel Guerrero
         Country Director: Xian Zhu
         Sector Manager: Michel Audigé
       Task Team Leader: Jean-Noel Guillossou
        ICR Team Leader: Reefat Sultana

                                                     BANGLADESH
         Bangladesh Railway Reform Programmatic Development Policy Credit


                                                        CONTENTS




A. Basic Information......................................................................................................... i 
B. Key Dates..................................................................................................................... i 
C. Ratings Summary......................................................................................................... i 
D. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ ii 
E. Bank Staff.................................................................................................................... ii 
F. Results Framework Analysis....................................................................................... ii 
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs................................................................... v 
H. Restructuring (if any).................................................................................................. v 
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................. 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................... 5 
3. Assessment of Outcomes........................................................................................... 10 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.......................................................... 15 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................... 16 
6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................ 18 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........... 18 
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............. 20 
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................ 22 
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.................................................... 23 
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR...................... 24 
Annex 5. Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders Comments on the Draft ICR 28 
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................... 30 
Annex 7. Development Partnership for Bangladesh Railway Reform..............................  
         and Investment Program Initially Planned...................................................... 31 
Annex 8. List of Agreed Key Performance Indicators with Updated Values................ 32 
Annex 9: Programmatic Development Policy Operation Program Matrix.................... 33 
Annex 10: Map .............................................................................................................. 40 

A. Basic Information

                                                                           Railway Reform
                                                                           Programmatic
Country:                Bangladesh                Program Name:
                                                                           Development Policy
                                                                           Credit
Program ID:             P100330                   L/C/TF Number(s):        IDA-42350
ICR Date:               04/16/2009                ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                       Borrower:
                                                                           BANGLADESH
Original Total
                        XDR 27.0M                 Disbursed Amount:        XDR 27.0M
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Finance
Bangladesh Railway
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Asian Development Bank (ADB)
JICA


B. Key Dates

      Process             Date                Process         Original Date      Revised / Actual
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:         06/13/2006      Effectiveness:                             03/27/2007
Appraisal:              09/03/2006      Restructuring(s):
Approval:               10/19/2006      Mid-term Review:
                                        Closing:                01/31/2008         01/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      High
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                 Ratings                   Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:              Satisfactory       Government:               Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:        Satisfactory       Implementing
                                                  Agency/Agencies:          Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                      Overall Borrower
Performance:                   Satisfactory       Performance:              Moderately Satisfactory




                                                 i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
      Implementation                                   QAG Assessments (if
        Performance                  Indicators                any)                     Rating:

Potential Problem Program
                              No                      Quality at Entry (QEA): None
at any time (Yes/No):
Problem Program at any                                Quality of Supervision
                              No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                        (QSA):
DO rating before
                              Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                       Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Railways                                                                100                 100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Corporate governance                                                    Primary             Primary
Infrastructure services for private sector development                 Secondary          Secondary
Other public sector governance                                         Secondary          Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                            At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:               Isabel M. Guerrero                    Praful C. Patel
Country Director:             Xian Zhu                              Christine I. Wallich
Sector Manager:               Michel Audige                         Guang Zhe Chen
Program Team Leader:          Binyam Reja                           Binyam Reja
ICR Team Leader:              Jean-Noel Guillossou
ICR Primary Author:           Reefat Sultana



F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The proposed Bangladesh Railway Reform Programmatic Development Policy Credit will
improve the governance structure within which Bangladesh Railway operates, addressing both
governance relationship between the Government of Bangladesh and Bangladesh Railway on the
one hand, and corporate governance and management structure within the railways organization on
the other.

The implementation of the reform program will help to (a) clarify relationship between GOB and
BR and increase BRs autonomy and accountability, (b) improve corporate governance and


                                                    ii

management structure within BR so that BR is more commercially and market oriented, and (c)
create an environment conducive to increase investment in railway operations. These would in turn
yield more efficient rail operations and services to users, improve financial performance, and
provide the basis for a growing market share for the railway sector.

The PDO indicators below are those which are to be achieved at the end of the reform program in
2011. Please note that the System does not allow a 2011 date to be entered (for PDO Indicator 2
onwards) which is why April 5, 2009 has been given but the PDO indicators are to be achieved in
2011 only.

NOTE: The ICR is being issued some 15 months later because discussions were underway over
the past year regarding whether there would be a DPC II operation or not.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target       Formally    Actual Value

     Indicator           Baseline Value            Values (from                    Achieved at
                                                     approval       Revised Target Completion or
                                                    documents)          Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :      10% increase in passenger and freight traffic.
Value              4,164 passenger km          4,561 passenger km
(quantitative or   (million) / 817 ton-km      (million) / 858 ton-
Qualitative)       (million)                   km (million)
Date achieved      10/19/2006                  10/19/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      30 - 50% increase in container freight traffic.
Value
(quantitative or   71,481 (TEUs)               90,000 - 100,000

Qualitative)                                   (TEUs)

Date achieved      10/19/2006                  04/05/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      10% increase in operating revenue
Value              62% operating revenue as    70% operating
(quantitative or                               revenue as a share of
Qualitative)       a share of total revenue    total revenue
Date achieved      10/19/2006                  04/05/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Overall improved user satisfaction of the railway services.
Value              First user satisfaction to  Second user
(quantitative or   be carried out during first satisfaction at the

                                                     iii

Qualitative)      year of implementation.   end of program.
Date achieved     10/19/2006                04/05/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target        Formally    Actual Value

     Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                     Achieved at
                                                  approval        Revised Target Completion or
                                                 documents)            Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Restructure Bangladesh by the line of business (LOB).
                                            LOB structure is
                                            working effectively.
                                            Managerial
Value             Technical and Region-     relationship and
(quantitative or                            reporting lines
Qualitative)      based structure.          clarified between
                                            HQ management and
                                            LOB field
                                            managers.
Date achieved     10/19/2006                04/05/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Transform BR into a Government Owned Corporate Entity.
                                            Draft Corporate Bill
Value                                       ready; BR has the
(quantitative or  Government Department. right to set freight
Qualitative)                                tariffs and 1st. class
                                            passenger tariffs.
Date achieved     10/19/2006                04/05/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Transparent cost accounting and financial reporting system.
                                            International
                                            accounting system
Value             Government accounting     for railway
(quantitative or  system true cost of       approved, draft
Qualitative)      services unknown.         design completed,
                                            system procured,
                                            and implemented.
Date achieved     10/19/2006                04/05/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


                                                  iv

Indicator 4 :      Human Resources Management.

Value                                       All BR staff entered

(quantitative or   HR Plan not practiced.   into database.

Qualitative)                                Database kept up to
                                            date.
Date achieved      10/19/2006               04/05/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      Improve BR operations, maintenance practices and performance.

Value              12% of the required      50% of the required

(quantitative or   annual maintenance       of annual

Qualitative)       funding for BR.          maintenance funding
                                            for BR.
Date achieved      10/19/2006               04/05/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs


 No.       Date ISR                                                           Actual Disbursements
           Archived                DO                          IP                (USD millions)
   1      11/21/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  41.13
   2      02/04/2009      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory             41.13



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                  v

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)

Country Macroeconomic Background
At the time of appraisal, Bangladesh's growth performance was the fastest in recent
memory. It averaged 5.4% per annum over the FY 01-05 period, increasing to 6.6% in
FY 06. Together with a decline in population growth rate from 2.5% in the 1980s to 1.7%
during 1990-2004, annual per capita GDP growth tripled from 1.1% in the 1980s to 3.3%
between 1990 and 2005. The current account balance had a surplus in FY 06 due to
strong export and remittance growth. While the macroeconomic management had been
prudent overall, the fiscal management had been mixed. The FY 06 fiscal deficit was
estimated at 3.4% of GDP with revenue and tax collection amounting to only 10.6% and
8.1% of GDP respectively. In recent years, however, Bangladesh has faced natural
disasters (damaging floods and cyclone) and external shocks (oil and food crisis), and
domestic political instability that led to violence, suspension of elections and
establishment of a Caretaker Government rule in January 2007 that ended after the
elections and restoration of an elected government two years later in January 2009.

Sectoral Background
Generally, as in many railways around the world, Bangladesh Railway (BR) runs on
deficit and has been a drain on the Government budget. BR is mostly a passenger
transport system, with 83% of its train-km devoted to providing passenger services.
However, the passenger service is the most money losing part of BR's services since
passenger tariffs are fixed by the government at a much lower level than the average cost
of providing the services. BR's operating deficit was Tk. 2.5 billion (US$ 41.9 million) in
FY 04-05 and increased to Tk. 3.8 billion (US$ 54.9 million) in FY 06-07.
Approximately 36% of BR's total operating expenditures are supported by a GOB
subsidy in the form of Public Service Obligations (PSO) for unprofitable passenger
services, welfare grant for education, health services and operating expense subsidy.
Because of insufficient revenue generation BR has been unable to fund maintenance at an
appropriate level resulting in deteriorating rail infrastructure and rolling stock. GOB also
uses BR to advance a range of macroeconomic and social objectives, not just to provide
money-losing passenger services. For example, GOB keeps rail tariffs low for petroleum
shipments in order to counter external fuel price shocks. Instead of allowing BR to
operate commercially, the government chooses to regulate tariffs across the board and
finances railway deficit through its regular budget.

In addition to the low tariffs, BR's governance and organizational structure has led to
inefficiencies and poor service delivery for its users. The financial performance in the
different divisions of BR varies, with the West Zone, having almost the same number of
employees as the East Zone but much less traffic, being far less productive and running
less efficient operations. Bangladesh Railway staff overall lack performance incentives.
The high frequency of turnover at all levels of BR management has resulted in lack of


                                              1

strategic vision for the development of railway services and lack of continuity in
decision-making. BR efficiency is also burdened by cumbersome Government
administrative procedures which result in long delays in decision-making and lack of
accountability.

Rationale for Bank Support
The 2005 GOB's National Strategy for Accelerated Poverty Reduction (NSAPR) noted
that poorly managed and inadequate infrastructure services was a hindrance for
Bangladesh's development efforts and for faster economic growth and poverty reduction.
It also noted that the country's transport system needed to be more balanced to keep up
with the growing transport demands in a more environmentally and socially sustainable
way. The National Land Transport Policy (approved by GOB in 2004) and the Integrated
Multi Modal Transport Policy (issued in 2005) both reiterated the need for shifting the
focus away from roads to other modes of transport, particularly rail.

The Bangladesh Railway Development Policy Credit was the first major Bank operation
in the country's railway sector. Bank support was proposed as a policy- based lending to
support sector governance reforms due to their underlying importance for improving
efficiency of railway services as well as for the success of any substantial railway
investment envisaged in the future. Institutional and governance improvements are
considered fundamental for ensuring the efficacy of railway investments, as learned from
the historical Bank involvement in the railway sector worldwide. Additionally, the Asian
Development Bank's (ADB) past experience with BR reforms has shown that reform
programs managed internally by BR have failed and that full government oversight and
support is needed to successfully carry out these reforms. A budget support operation was
thought to bring the full force of government to lead the reforms.

The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2006-2009 included World Bank
support for rail contingent upon reforms of BR in order to increase its commercial focus
and financial sustainability. The proposed operation supported the CAS's development
outcome to improve access to and quality of infrastructure services through strengthening
sector governance and encouraging private sector participation. The operation, in keeping
in line with the CAS's broader goal, also contributed to improving sector performance, as
well as creating an environment conducive to expanded government and donor
investment in railways. A programmatic loan with two different operations, rather than
one single operation, was chosen to support the medium term institutional and
governance reforms envisioned so as to give enough flexibility to the government to
adapt to changing circumstances and make necessary corrections as details of the reform
program emerged. The operation was proposed to be supported under a series of
programmatic DPCs, each released in a single tranche, subject to meeting the prior
actions and triggers as agreed during negotiations. This ICR is for the first Railway DPC
only.

The Bank's railway operation was a flagship operation developed with the main CAS
partners, ADB and the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), supporting the
same reform matrix for BR and linking their investment lending to the progress in the
reform program (see Annex 7, page 33, for details of the different donors' planned


                                             2

investment programs). The design of the Bangladesh Railway DPC allowed the CAS
partners to develop their respective support to BR in a more coordinated way.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The development objectives for the entire reform program, as described in the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD) and the Loan Agreement, were to improve the governance
structure within which Bangladesh Railway operates, addressing both governance
relationship between the Government of Bangladesh and Bangladesh Railway on the one
hand, and corporate governance and management structure within the railways
organization on the other hand. Achieving these objectives would in turn yield more
efficient rail operations and services to users, improve financial performance, and provide
the basis for a growing market share for the country's railway sector.

The agreed Key Performance Indicators (KPI) can be seen in Annex 8, page 34. It should
be noted that the end -of- program indicators were set for 2011, at the end of the reform
and investment programs planned by all respective donors. There were prior actions for
the first DPC and triggers for the second DPC operations but no intermediary targets
were set for the first DPC.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification
N/A

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The reform program had five interrelated components: (a) restructuring BR by line of
business organization, (b) transforming BR into a corporate entity, (c) improving cost
accounting and financial reporting, (d) improving human resource planning and
incentives, and (e) improving operating and maintenance performance. These policy
areas would be supported by two operations (DPCs), in partnership with ADB and JICA,
for the implementation of GOB's railway reform program through 2011. The first DPC
was approved once specific prior actions (described in Section 2.1) were completed.

a)      Restructuring BR by Line of Business (LOB). The aim of this reform
component was to focus BR's resources (staff and assets) on serving its customers by
creating an organizational structure along lines of business. The railway's freight and
passenger businesses and other business lines were to be managed separately so that each
business would have a separate business plan and set of accounts and financial reports. In
addition, core services (passenger, freight, rolling stock, infrastructure) would be
separated from non-core services (non-core services include education and health service
provided by BR to its staff and a large real-estate holding).In the longer term, the non-
core services would be privatized, outsourced or handed over to the private sector or to
more suitable third party in the public sector.




                                              3

b)      Transform BR into Government-Owned Corporate Entity. The aim of this
reform component was to give BR the management autonomy that it needs to manage the
railway efficiently. Since BR's primary traffic is loss -making passenger service, it would
continue to require financial support from the government. However, this support would
be defined in a public service contract, which would also specify the services that the
government would buy with that support. The relationship between the corporatized BR
and GOB would be governed by a Performance Contract/Performance Management
Agreement (PMA) between the two parties. The contract would specify delegation of
powers, subjects requiring government approval, Public Service Obligation (PSO) and
contracting, financing mechanism, performance targets, auditing procedures and other
areas of interest to both parties.

c)      Improve Cost Accounting and Financial Reporting. The aim of this reform
component was to give BR management and the GOB the information needed to manage
the railway. Currently BR accounts are maintained under government accounting rules,
which specify modified cash basis accounting (no depreciation). Costs and profitability
by service are not available. The revised accounting system would provide financial
reports and budget reports by Lines of Business (LOB) and would be published
externally and made available to the public, which would contribute to make BR a more
transparent organization.

d)      Improve Human Resources Management. The aim of this reform component
was to give BR management the human resources management tools it needs to
implement the LOB and corporate management reforms. In addition, the entire reform
program would improve the working environment of BR and afford BR staff better
incentives and career prospects through enhanced training and upward mobility.

e)      Operational Improvement. The aim of this reform component was to support
improvement in the efficiency of BR operations. This would include setting up
monitoring systems to collect and analyze data related to operational efficiency, investing
in computer systems that support operational efficiency, and updating BR's operating
practices and standards. In addition, consideration would be given to install an online
BR-wide comprehensive computer based system with built-in optimizing programs to
improve all aspects of operations. Finally, this reform component would include
increasing the maintenance budget to meet BR's requirements according to its three year
maintenance rolling plan.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

N/A

1.6 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)
N/A




                                            4

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)

The prior actions for the first DPC, to help increase the efficiency of BR and to make it
financially more solvent, were met before the credit was negotiated and are given below:

  1. Formal adoption and approval of Lines of Business (LOB) structure by GOB.
  2. Appointment of heads of LOBs.
  3. Assignments of key staff to LOBs to support LOB heads and work with reform
       consultant in implementing LOB structure.
  4. Ministry of Finance's endorsement of Ministry of Communication's request for an
       increase in BR's maintenance funding requirement in line with BR's three-year
       maintenance rolling plan.

In this regard, a major maintenance funding gap was filled prior to credit negotiation and
the three conditions related to LOBs were also met. However, the importance of these
prior actions was jeopardized especially with regard to following up on approval of the
LOB structure and appointment of full time heads and related staffing. GOB's approval
of a preliminary LOB structure, as proposed by BR, back in 2006 was subject to future
modification as per detailed study to be conducted under this reform program. BR
showed its commitment, at that point in time, by assigning the existing Additional
Director Generals in charge of the then suggested seven LOBs1, to work with their
existing staff all the while being aware that the structure would change as per the
recommendations coming from the reform program technical assistance financed under
the parallel ADB loan. The main role of the key staff was to work with the consultants in
defining and implementing the restructuring actions. In this way the risk of the
consultants being isolated, with no access to information and no access to management of
LOBs was minimized.

The 40% increase in BR's maintenance budget was a key condition for the first DPC and
was met by the Ministry of Finance keeping with the Ministry of Communication's
request. BR received, in addition to its normal maintenance budget in 2007, an additional
Tk 953 million (US$ 14 million) for its three year maintenance rolling plan in line with
its medium term budgetary framework and the Bank's DPC condition2. BR showed good
and steady progress in carrying out its maintenance program successfully as a result of
this, and included repairs to improve safety.

The prior actions of the first DPC served as entry point to what was anticipated as a long-
term reform program. It was designed to initiate major changes in governance and


1 The proposed LOBs in 2006 consisted of (1) Finance and Costing Management (2) Freight Service Management (3)
Passenger Service Management (4) Infrastructure Maintenance and Property Management (5) Rolling Stock
Maintenance Management (6) Planning Development and Support Services Management and (7) Project
Implementation Unit. Ref: MOC's letter dated July 26, 2006.
2 In 2006-2007 BR received Tk 1070 million for maintenance which increased 110% to Tk 2250 million in 2007-2008.
This 110% increase, which included the 40% increase for the DPC, was to clear backlog maintenance pending from
previous years.


                                                        5

incentive structure for the operation of railways, and to bring the various donors and the
government into a common reform program, and to link investment support to progress in
the reform program.

The railway reform program received strong support from the government and the
Program Matrix (Annex 9, page 35) agreed between GOB, ADB, the Bank and JICA was
the guiding document for carrying out the reform program; the government also
reaffirmed its intention to transform BR into a government owned corporate entity3.
Although GOB is now considering keeping BR as a government agency it has been
proposed that the Railway Board would function as a Secretariat and that the Director
General, with the status of a Secretary, would have the required autonomy and authority
similar to what is envisaged under the corporatized arrangement, so as to have full
control over issues such as staff promotion, tariff setting etc. However, GOB is yet to
inform the Bank, along with the other donors, of this possible change in decision away
from transforming BR into a government owned corporate entity to a government-owned
agency. It is important that the rest of the objectives of the program, especially the
implementation of the business oriented approach to the activities for all LOBs of BR,
continue to be the objective of the overall program.

Delays in hiring the reform consultants impacted negatively on the reform process. The
BR reform program envisaged in the Policy Matrix are not only policy decision, but
technical matters that require significant input and support from experienced consultants
to implement the details of the reform program. It was only when the reform consultants
were fully mobilized in October 2007, did BR appoint a full time Project Director (PD)
for the reform component along with the dedicated restructuring team to provide
leadership in the reform process. At the same time, BR proactively carried out
consultation workshops in six regions across the country (Syedpur, Lalmonirhaat,
Parbatipur, Pakshi, Chittagong and Rajshahi) to make sure that all BR staff was on board
on the reform program. In addition, twenty four workshops were organized on asset
registry, financial governance and HR database for better staff knowledge on the reform
issues. The BR Reform Steering Committee, co-chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of
Communication (MOC) and Ministry of Finance (MOF), has been meeting periodically
to review the status of the reform implementation and to make timely decisions on
pending matters that are essential for the continuation of the reform process. In this
regard, MOC's keen role, although rather late in the reform timeline i.e. only after
October 2008, in moving ahead with the reform agenda and in designating a Joint
Secretary to look into the day to day affairs of the reform progress is a positive step.
MOC is now thinking of requesting Development Partners' participation in the Steering
Committee meetings, as observers, to ensure that all views are duly reflected in the BR
proposals.


Second DPC Triggers (details can be found in Annex 9, page 35)


3GOB's Development Policy Letter dated September 12, 2006.




                                                     6

Restructuring by LOB

Based on the recent proposal from the BR Operations Directorate, and after prolonged
internal discussions and exchange with development partners, the proposed new LOB
structure would have two core business units for freight and passenger operations,
supported by six other business units namely Operations, Infrastructure, Projects, Rolling
Stock, Finance and Accounting and Corporate Services. It is expected that each LOB
head will control the major assets, human and other resources and operates train services
in line with market demand. This would make BR a business-led organization from top to
bottom and each LOB head would be accountable for each unit's activities.

Performance Management Agreement (PMA)

As a trigger of the second DPC, the Performance Management Agreement (PMA)
between BR and MOC was prepared during the period of the first DPC, in order to
establish the relationship between BR (operational and financial), the financial support of
the GOB (budget allocations and international loans), the main goals of the reform to be
achieved by BR, and the investment projects and the maintenance programs to be
implemented. Although the PMA has not been signed yet between the two parties a
results framework with a number of key performance indicators, in the context of the
proposed LOB structure, has been prepared and will be monitored by MOC. An analysis
of the PMA and other existing documents, used to define the relationship between BR
and GOB, has also been carried out.

A revised PMA is considered as an accountability framework spelling out the results
expected from BR as a counterpart to the increased autonomy granted under the reform
and to the financial resources provided by the GOB. It would be a rolling document
which clarifies implementation with measurable objectives and commitments (budget,
performance indicators). Delegation of powers and subjects requiring GOB approval
would not be part of the PMA since they are part of the new institutional framework.

Draft Bill to Transform BR into a Government Owned Corporate Entity

The bill to define the legal status of BR, a trigger of the Bank's second DPC is scheduled
for 2011, according to the ADB-funded Reform consultant's timeline. In the meantime a
draft bill will be prepared by the consultants by November 2009 for discussion with
stakeholders and will likely take one year to be approved by Cabinet. A decision has to
be taken on the form and legal status of BR taking into account the experience gained
from restructuring BR by LOB. Finalization and approval of the business units and
transfer of assets and liabilities, finalization and approval of the technical and safety
regulatory framework for the rail sector, roles and reporting arrangements and
institutional strengthening for safety and technical regulatory bodies, are all contingent
upon the draft act to be ready for discussion by Cabinet and approved by Parliament.




                                              7

BR's overall performance during the first DPC

After many years of decline and lackluster reform program, BR and GOB were keen to
reverse the declining trend for the railways and make it an important mode of transport.
BR showed enthusiasm early on for taking actions to improve the railway, and
understood the fact that without major reforms, the investment program to come from all
donors would not materialize. As such, BR and GOB agreed to fulfill the prior
actions/triggers for the first DPC although there could have been more substantial
progress made during the period under review to achieve more of the development
objectives of the reform program. Since the launch of the reform program, despite the
unexpected political events in Bangladesh, BR has made some operational improvements
including improvements in the number of passenger km covered, ton km and container
traffic carried as well as its labor productivity. It has also carried out the railway
maintenance program successfully, which was essential to prevent further deterioration of
the rail infrastructure and improve safety. However, its financial performance worsened
during the same period with the operating revenue as a share of total revenue decreasing
to 46-48% from 64% in the baseline year (2004). The operating (working) ratio also
increased from 127% to 168% with the largest increase in operating expenses coming
from General Administrative costs. The main reason for the unusual increase has been the
requirement to pay pension obligations which BR had to pay to settle old cases. Details
about the most recent status of BR's performance monitoring indicators agreed at
negotiations can be found in Annex 8, page 34.

On the Social aspects of the program, BR, with the Bank's support, has undertaken a
Social Impact Assessment to analyze the possible impacts of the reform program on BR's
internal and external stakeholders. The study also examined what the perceptions of the
reform program were, the incentive structure that would be needed to ensure a positive
outcome of the program and establish a baseline on the current status of the workers
affiliated with BR. Both the internal (BR staff) and external (passenger and freight users)
perceptions were that BR needed sustainable reforms, including restructuring with
qualified staff and should be given autonomy to function efficiently. Since there is a fear
of labor retrenchment, it is important that BR continues to develop an effective
communication and engagement strategy with different stakeholder and user groups for
the future. This should be a continuous process in line with the progress of the reforms
and should include discussions with trade union leaders as well.

With respect to environment aspects, Terms of Reference (TOR) have been prepared for
an Environmental Audit to review the current environmental practices and policies of
BR. BR/GOB have already requested the Bank to provide grant money to carry out this
Audit.

BR is yet to create, as agreed during the appraisal of the first DPC, an Environment and
Social Unit (ESU) that will enable it to better manage the environmental and social risks
associated with direct investments that will come into the pipeline in the future. This unit
is expected to take the lead in managing social and environmental risks and to use a more
client oriented and client focused approach rather than a supply driven approach as has


                                             8

been the case in the past. BR has kept the provision for establishment of the ESU in the
proposed revised organogram of BR and action for appointment against stated positions
needs to be vetted by the GOB.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

The Financing Agreement for the BR DPC operation was signed in February 2007, four
months after the credit was approved by the Bank Board. This delay was due to the
events surrounding the political transition to the Caretaker Government which came to
power in January 2007. The credit became effective only in March 2007 and a single
tranche disbursement took place in April 2007.

Out of the three major risks identified during appraisal, namely Political Reversal, Labor
Resistance and BR delays in implementation of the reform, only the first and last ones
seemed to affect the implementation of the reform. The unforeseen circumstances related
to the political transition and the uncertainty in the country prevailing at that time led to
delays in decision making. The political instability Bangladesh was in after the first DPC
was approved was not anticipated during the processing of the first DPC. Elections and a
political change in government was expected since Bangladesh has had in the past
successful democratic transitions. In addition, the momentum for the sector specific
reform was reduced with lesser ownership for reforms from within BR during this time.
As seen in railways culture worldwide, reforms would most likely occur with a change in
railways' management to bring in people who understand the management objectives and
have ownership for reforms from within.

Secondly, the hiring of the ADB funded reform consultants was also delayed by the same
political transition and ADB's no-objection for the reform consultant's contract was
given in April 2007 (two months after ADB received the negotiated contract for no
objection). The GOB's internal clearance process took till August 2007 (after receiving
ADB's no objection) when the contract was finally signed. The consultants were fully
mobilized by October 2007. Hence it was not until about a year after the credit was
approved by the Bank Board (Bank approval was in October 2006) that the ADB funded
reform consultants came on board and started working with BR on the implementation of
the reform program.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

Measurable indicators for monitoring progress and evaluating results on completion of
the reform program can be found in Annex 8, page 34 which provides the baseline and
actual values (latest status available was for 2006-2007) at the time of this ICR. However,
it should be noted that the end of program target values were given for 2011 when the
ADB funded reform program is expected to be completed. In this regard it would have
been more appropriate if intermediate targets (output or input) were defined or if there
could have been some specific targets only for the first DPC. While BR has an elaborate
and impressive Information Book published every year, to update the indicators, annual



                                               9

performance indicators designed for the first DPC should have been taken into
consideration from the beginning, to help assess the outcomes of this operation4.
The development partners in this operation, ADB, JICA and the Bank, had a common
Reform Matrix that was used jointly with BR and updated with information provided by
BR and evaluated by the Bank team. Joint supervision missions, as and when possible,
and sharing of all the consultants' reports for review and comments were also important
for such a flagship multi donor development partnership to be executed successfully. In
this regard a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) among the development partners
was signed to underpin the partnership agreement for implementation of the reform
program.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

The conditions for the second DPC were (a) restructuring BR along Lines of Business (b)
signing of the PMA between BR and GOB and (c) preparation of a draft act to transform
BR into a government owned corporate entity. In addition developing a model for a new
accounting and financial management system and formulating performance based
incentive structure for key BR personnel are important milestones for the second DPC.
The delayed implementation of the overall reform program have pushed back the second
DPC and investment project to FY 10-11.

Once significant progress in achieving the reforms was recorded, the Bank was expected
to plan an investment operation covering priority investments for infrastructure and a
second DPC for US$ 60 million. The proposed investment project requested by BR aims
at rehabilitating and double tracking the Dhaka-Chittagong Corridor together with ADB
and JICA, to support traffic growth and service improvements. While the first DPC laid
the ground work, despite substantial delays, for the Bank's engagement and dialogue in
this sector, subsequent DPCs and Investment operations hinge upon GOB's commitment
to follow through with the reform program and to take the required policy and
institutional actions.       A fundamental requirement will be for the newly elected
government to support the management and governance reforms in BR and to provide the
necessary kinds of human and technical resources needed in this regard. Based on
GOB/BR ownership for reform continuity, a policy dialogue with the government, clearly
focusing on the required and agreed reform agenda with a time bound action plan, to
show the government's full commitment to carrying out the entire reform agenda, will be
needed. The future direction of the Bank's assistance will be determined during this
process. Similarly, ADB and JICA have linked their new investment programs to the
implementation of the agreed reform program. Details about JICA's investment program
can be found in Annex 5.

3. Assessment of Outcomes




4The percentage change expected and subsequent End of Program Indicators, in Annex 8, was given only for 2011 as
can also be found in the PAD.




                                                     10

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Relevance: High

The Bank's support to the railway sector has followed GOB's priorities as laid out in the
NSAPR, the NLTP, and the Bank's CAS. Putting governance at center stage, the Bank's
CAS aligns itself with the NSAPR and emphasizes the need to improve `governance and
efficiency in infrastructure by reducing opportunities for corruption and nontransparent
procurement practices' and to `selectively support meaningful reforms in key high-
priority areas'. GOB's specific railway policy and strategies are detailed in the NLTP
mirrored in the CAS's emphasis on support to railways contingent upon reforms of BR to
increase its financial sustainability and commercial focus5. This DPC supported the
CAS's development outcome to improve access to, and quality of infrastructure services,
by strengthening sector governance.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between policy actions supported by
operations and outcomes)

Overall Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

All the prior actions of the first DPC were aimed at setting the stage for more long term
reforms to be supported in subsequent DPCs and investment programs from the three
major donors. However, because of the delays in the implementation of the reform (in
part caused by the political transition in the last two years, the delay in hiring the reform
consultants and the loss in BR's momentum in carrying out the reform program), the
triggers for the second DPC have not been achieved yet within the timeframe expected
during the preparation of the first DPC. This is why the second DPC has not been
launched as of now.

The evaluation of the outcome of the operation is related to the implementation of the
first DPC, and the rating takes into account the fact that the success of the overall reform
program was to be measured at the end of the reform program in 2011. The measure of
the achievement of the PDOs at the time of this ICR gives only an indicative assessment
as to whether BR is making progress towards achieving the development objectives of
the overall program. The objectives of the first DPC of launching a reform program in a
sector the Bank was not involved in before in Bangladesh, coordinating with two other
major donors and meeting the prior triggers were achieved on time. However, subsequent
slow down in implementation of the reform program, especially the LOB restructuring,
has negatively affected the progress of the overall DPC operations.

Overall Objective: Improve the governance structure within which BR operates,
addressing both governance relationship between GOB and BR on one hand and the

5 World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Bangladesh FY 06-09, Report 35193, pg 18-19 and 54, April 19, 2006




                                                      11

corporate governance and management structure within the railways organization on the
other.

The first BR DPC only partially achieved its overarching objective of clarifying the
relationship between GOB and BR and increasing BR's autonomy and accountability.
The GOB's approval to restructure BR along Lines of Business (LOB) is a step in the
right direction to make BR more commercially and market oriented. This is needed to
create an environment conducive to increased investments in railway operations to yield
more efficient rail services to users, to increased BR's financial performance and to
providing the basis for a growing market share for the railway sector.

The GOB could have moved faster with full implementation of the LOBs and achieved
the subsequent objectives as laid out under the reform program but failed to keep up with
the momentum the DPC operation started with in the beginning.

Objective 1: Restructuring BR by Lines of Business (LOB): Moderately Unsatisfactory

Since GOB committed to creating LOB structures, work on the design and
implementation of the structure has been underway. Following lengthy consultation and
discussions with development partners, an internal proposal from the BR's Operations
Directorate in which both passenger and freight LOBs have the responsibility for cost and
revenues of train operation, and which resolves the issue of cross-subsidy between
passenger and freight, has recently emerged but will need to be formally approved by
GOB. Although an organogram was approved by the Steering Committee/GOB in
December 2008, it will now need to be revised taking into account the recent proposal
from the BR Operations Directorate. The heads for each of these eight LOBs will need to
be appointed and further work is required to reshuffle staff according to expertise needed
in each LOB, all the way down to the field level. A five-year business plan and Key
Performance Indicators for each LOB, to achieve the stated business plan targets, are
being developed and will need to be formally approved by GOB once the LOB
restructuring is complete.

The following paragraphs provide the status of the triggers for the second DPC and are at
different stages of progress as stated below.

Objective 2: Transform BR into a GOB owned Corporate Entity:                    Moderately
Unsatisfactory

GOB's current thinking is to retain BR as a government agency and finalize the detailed
LOB     organizational   structure    taking  into  account     the  current    BR     cadre
management/systems. Nevertheless GOB has agreed to give BR the autonomy and
authority so as to have full control over issues such as staff promotion, tariff setting etc.
A draft bill in order to define the legal status of BR is expected to be available for
consultation with stakeholders by November 2009.




                                             12

Objective 3: Improve Cost Accounting and Financial Reporting: Moderately Satisfactory

The new cost accounting and financial management architecture, a milestone for the
second DPC, has been prepared by the reform consultants and approved by BR, pending
implementation once the LOBs are in place. The revised accounting system is expected to
provide financial reports and budget reports by LOB and be published externally and
made available to the public. The accounting system is also expected to be used to
determine the internal pricing that the different LOBs will charge one another as well as
the tariff structure for railway users. A major outcome of this sub-component is that the
Steering Committee has approved the use of accrual basis of accounting in the new
financial management architecture and preparation of an asset registry to ensure that a
true picture of BR's assets is depicted, rather than just historical cost valuation.

Objective 4: Improve Human Resource Management: Moderately Satisfactory

The reform consultants funded by ADB are helping BR to set up a personnel database
and identify personnel requirements for BR to implement the business plan for each
LOB. Once the blue print of the HR strategy is in place, BR and MOC/GOB will have to
ensure that appropriate and adequate staffing is in place at all levels of BR, all the way
down to the field level, to ensure proper functioning of each LOB.

Objective 5: Operational Improvement: Moderately Unsatisfactory

While the consultants are helping BR setting up monitoring systems to collect and
analyze data related to operational efficiency, including developing software for
monitoring KPIs related to each LOB, this component is still at a very initial stage
pending implementation of the LOBs to see full operational improvements.

Work is still in progress for most of the objectives to be fully achieved and GOB will
need to set concrete actions, responsibilities and a timetable to ensure that the full list of
policy reforms are met in line with the Reform Matrix agreed with the three development
partners. While this programmatic approach is progressing in the right direction, the
substantial delays have delayed the triggers of the second DPC from being achieved.

3.3 Efficiency
N/A

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(Combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The proposed approach for BR restructuring was based on similar models successfully
implemented in other countries, transforming the railways from government departments
to market oriented companies. Any reform program is a rather complex process and takes
time and requires stable political environment. The case of the first Bangladesh Railway
DPC is no exception. Reform programs need to be supported by new legal and


                                             13

institutional frameworks, improved incentive structure directed at behavioral change of
both managers and employees and new responsibilities and accountability relationships
between government and railways.

The first Bangladesh Railway DPC was negotiated between GOB and the Bank after
specific prior actions were fulfilled. However, the remaining actions upon which the
approval of the second DPC depends have not been completed and as a result the GOB
and relevant stakeholders are yet to fully benefit from the reform agenda; as such, the
overall rating is given as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

Nevertheless, since reform is a continuous process, it is only at the end of 2011, when the
ADB-funded reform consultants' work is completed, can it be determined if sustainable
reforms have been fully achieved. Institutional reforms take time to measure and are
difficult to become fully effective via one-off measures. Hence the sequencing of the
reforms justifies the programmatic approach in this reform agenda but requires a
politically stable environment and continued championship to be successfully
implemented. In assessing a broad based program such as this, which involves
governance and institutional reforms, it is important to keep in mind that the initial
reforms, as laid out in the prior actions for the first DPC, were achieved and that further
work is needed to meet the triggers required for the second DPC.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Improving the efficiency of the railway system will have a direct and positive impact on
the rail services used by the poor. BR is mostly a passenger railway system, and most of
its users are the poor. Hence any improvement in the railway sector will help the poor
more. While the proposed reforms in the short term would result in some staff
redeployment through optimization of labor input and skill upgrading, there is no major
staff retrenchment planned. Overall the reform program aims to improve the working
environment in BR and provide staff with improved incentives and career growth
opportunities with upward mobility.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
development)

The reform program aimed and will continue to aim at changing the current status of BR
from an administrative government structure into a government owned and customer-
oriented entity. The five interrelated components of the reform program are expected to
strengthen BR through the new legal and institutional framework and the improved
incentive structure directed at behavioral changes of managers and employees as well as
the new responsibility and accountability relationship between government and railways.




                                             14

The LOB restructuring will fundamentally change how BR operates since each LOB will
have its own bottom line responsibility and key performance indicators established will
evaluate the performance of the individual LOB as well as that of BR as a whole. Heads
of different LOBs are also going to be held accountable for achieving the key
performance indicators.

The financial management reforms will improve the financial governance systems within
BR supporting decision making for the LOB structure and giving information on costs
and revenues for each railway service in a manner consistent with international
accounting standards and best practices in the railway industry, while satisfying
government's statutory reporting requirements. The information generated by the new
system will also be used to calculate a new PSO payment mechanism, thus improving
transparency and financial governance.

Work is still in progress with the support of the reform consultants to prepare the
different components of the reform program to strengthen BR. While the Steering
Committee is monitoring the progress of the reforms, it will be the GOB's decision on the
most appropriate legal status of BR and a Bill to transform BR accordingly which will
ensure that the objectives of the reform are fully achieved.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

The Program Document outlines risks related to policy reversals, BR/GOB delays in
implementation of the reforms and labor resistance. Sudden policy reversals are not
uncommon in Bangladesh although GOB showed commitment to the proposed reforms
from the beginning. An effective, on- going communication strategy by BR management,
to inform the public and BR staff of the benefits and costs of the reform has helped and
will hopefully help mitigate the risks in the future since backtracking on the reforms will
be politically costly to the future administration. In the past BR has backtracked on
several reform initiatives, resulting in incomplete reforms and to avoid that from
happening in this case, future investment projects with BR have been linked to progress
with the implementation of the reforms. Although the reform program did not entail labor
retrenchment, the threat of job security and uncertainty associated with any reform
program, including losing civil service status remains high. An in-depth analysis of the
benefits and costs to labor, clearly communicating the benefits and costs of the reform
from the beginning and facilitating participation by staff during the preparation were built
into the program. However, such staff consultation should continue during the entire
duration of implementation of the reform program through 2011. The Social Impact
Analysis and workshops which were held with the Labor Unions are expected to help


                                             15

allay staff fears on the effects of the reform.        Nevertheless, now that a Caretaker
Government is no longer in place, labor resistance from various BR Labor Unions may
arise and can have an adverse impact on the overall program.

Railway autonomy and reform implementation are secure only when supported by
legislation. Sustained autonomy and reform requires the government to build a broad
consensus and enact legislation through Parliament. Completion and passage of the
legislation and then actual implementation will be essential for any measure of
achievement. This will take until 2011, the end of the reform program, to be properly
evaluated.

An objective assessment of risks as stated above indicates that risks related to policy
reversal, implementation delays and labor resistance remain high. Due to these reasons,
the risk to development outcomes for the first BR DPC is rated high at the time of this
ICR.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
    Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during the preparation was satisfactory. The Bank team took
into account lessons learned from previous ADB-funded operations and consulted
extensively within Bangladesh, including with government, railways and private sector
and labor union representatives prior to project preparation. This DPC was one of the
flagship operations developed with the two main CAS partners, ADB and JICA,
supporting the same reform matrix for BR. The Bank team worked closely with ADB and
JICA to develop the Policy Reform Matrix to be agreed by all stakeholders, including
GOB. The donor agreement was formalized by a MOU signed at the Vice President level
of the respective organizations. The multi-donor working model and support for the same
policy matrix are providing examples in other sectors in Bangladesh, such as the recently
approved Power Sector Development Policy Lending.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including M&E arrangements)
     Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. The team was proactive
in identifying issues and threats to the achievement of the PDOs and working with BR
and donors to find possible solutions. There was close collaboration with the borrower
and the implementing agency, as well as the other development partners and in this
regard mission timings were coordinated as much as possible with ADB and JICA.



                                              16

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

Overall the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory. The appropriate use of the DPC
instrument to initiate entry into a rather important transportation sector and to engage
with the development partners and key stakeholders was done well during the lending
stage and was also maintained during the supervision stage. In addition, the team
proactively raised critical issues with GOB/BR during supervision missions to try and
resolve them.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
    Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Initially the borrower demonstrated strong ownership and commitment during project
preparation and met all the prior actions of the first DPC after which the credit was
disbursed. It also recruited the consultants and started preparing reforms. The Ministry of
Finance's endorsement of Ministry of Communication's request for an increase in BR's
maintenance funding requirement in line with BR's three-year maintenance rolling plan
showed GOB's commitment to move forward with the reform program at the beginning.
However, over the last two years, the momentum for railway reform was somewhat
sidetracked and there was limited buy- in of the reforms. Government's possible change
in decision away from transforming BR into a government owned corporate entity to a
government owned agency may also affect the objective of the overall reform program.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
    Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

BR demonstrated initial commitment to the project by assigning staff to work closely
with the reform consultants. They also completed the preparatory activities related to
meeting the prior actions of the first DPC. However, the signing of the PMA (which has
not yet been done) and faster completion of the LOB restructuring was not achieved
during this time and these could have been accomplished if BR had been more proactive
in moving ahead with the triggers for the second DPC. Labor resistance was at a minimal
since during the Caretaker Government's tenure, which coincided with the first DPC
period, most of the labor unions were not as active as before. Since MOC has stated that
it is willing to give BR the power, authority and autonomy to go forward with the reform
program, BR will need to take advantage of this in moving ahead faster with the reforms.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
    Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall the Borrower's performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. While the initial
momentum, with support from the relevant ministries including the Ministry of Finance,
during the preparatory phase was noteworthy, GOB was not able to follow it through.
Various decisions and implementation of key actions got seriously delayed in the process,
affecting preparation of the second DPC.


                                             17

6. Lessons Learned
(both operation-specific and of wide general application)

Coordination among donors in terms of timing of support to the reforms and the
investment loans was and continues to be critical for the success of this reform program.
Since this operation was the first project the Bank developed with ADB and JICA in the
railway sector, agreement to the same reform matrix for BR and signing of a
memorandum of understanding were important mechanisms to improve coordination.
This was further strengthened by joint supervision missions.

Engaging stakeholders in the reform process, especially employees and railway users,
was essential for implementation of the reform program and to help minimize policy
reversals. In this regard BR's hosting of six regional workshops to create awareness of
the reform program amongst its staff, all the way down to the field level, is
commendable.

In absence of past engagement in the railway sector, entering through a DPC strategically
is relevant yet results emerge only if there is continued commitment from the partner
institutions. Reform championship is an important step in initiating a broad reform
agenda in any new sector. It is also important that alignment among the key decision
makers around key reforms remains in place for continuity of reforms. For budget
support operations such as this, strong ownership on the part of the Government is
necessary for sustainable governance and institutional reforms to take place.

In the context of a country with limited implementation capacity and considerable
political uncertainties, opportunistic reforms are needed, as is the case with Bangladesh.
Triggers for such operations have to be interpreted as indicative and subject to change,
provided of course the changes are broadly consistent with the overall Government focus
and are also likely to contribute to the outcomes being pursued. There is a need to
maintain flexibility in the design and implementation of reforms to take account of
unforeseen developments.

Similarly being responsive to country conditions requires that donors, such as the Bank,
build their engagement on reform initiatives that the government has taken, to assist with
those reform steps the government can pursue in the near term, and to acknowledge that
some reforms will have to wait longer than others under different political circumstances.
Historically Bangladesh has not been in the forefront of reformist economies and for
more than three decades now reforms have occurred in small rather than big steps. Indeed
very often reform successes need to be judged on the basis of partial rather than full
implementation of all components.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies




                                              18

Bangladesh Railway has prepared and submitted its ICR on the first Bangladesh Railway
Reform Programmatic Development Policy Credit to the IDA team. The ICR, as
submitted, can be found in Annex 4.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

The draft ICR was shared with ADB and JICA and comments received have been duly
reflected in the final ICR keeping in mind that this ICR is for the first DPC only and not
the entire reform program. The comments can be found in Annex 5.




                                           19

   Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                            Title               Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Ishtiaque Ahmed             Transport Specialist                SASDT
Mitsuyoshi Asada            Senior Transport. Spec.             SASDT
Richard Damania             Lead Environmental Economist        SASDI
Adriana Jordanova Damianova Lead Environmental Specialist       SASDI
Gizella Diaz                Program Assistant                   SASDO
Tanvir Hossain              Procurement Specialist              SARPS
Zafrul Islam                Lead Procurement Specialist         SARPS
Zarafshan H. Khawaja        Senior Social Development Spec      OPCQC
Martha B. Lawrence          Senior Transport. Spec.             ECSSD
Mohi Uz Zaman Quazi         Senior Transport. Engineer          SASDT
Binyam Reja                 Senior Transport Economist          AFTTR
Pazhayannur K. Subramanian  Lead Financial Management Spec      SARFM
Ismat Sultana               Program Assistant                   SACBD
Reefat Sultana              Project Analyst                     SASDT
Suraiya Zannath             Senior Financial Management Spec.   SARFM
Supervision
Ishtiaque Ahmed             Transport Specialist                SASDT
Burhanuddin Ahmed          Senior Financial Management Spec.    SARFM
Adriana Jordanova Damianova Lead Environmental Specialist       SASDI
Gizella Diaz                Program Assistant                   SASDO
Tanvir Hossain             Procurement Specialist               SARPS
Zafrul Islam                Lead Procurement Specialist         SARPS
Fabio Pittaluga             Senior Social Development Spec      SASDI
Vasile Olievschi            Senior Railway Specialist           ECSSD
Mohi Uz Zaman Quazi         Senior Transport. Engineer          SASDT
Reefat Sultana              Project Analyst                     SASDT
Shakil Ahmed Ferdausi       Environmental Specialist            SASDI
Teen Kari Barua             Sociologist, Consultant             SASDT
Md. Tafazzal Hossain       Team Assistant                       SACBD
Binyam Reja                 Senior Transport Economist          AFTTR
Jean-Noel Guillossou        Senior Transport Economist          SASDT
Atul Agarwal               Transport Specialist                 SASDT



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
               Stage
                                         No. of staff weeks    USD Thousands (including
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                           12                        37.04
  FY07                                           41                       178.50


                                              20

 FY08                                 0.00
                   Total:     53    215.54
Supervision/ICR
 FY06                                 0.00
 FY07                         6      36.11
 FY08                         29     90.62
                   Total:     35    126.73




                            21

                 Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
                              (if any)


Not Applicable




                                 22

              Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                                   (if any)

Not Applicable




                                      23

     Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) on
       Bangladesh Railway Reform Programmatic Development Policy Credit

BACKGROUND:

World Bank provides Programmatic Development Policy Credit (DPC) amounting total
US$ 100 million as a programmatic policy loans to support and leverage other parts of the
government of Bangladesh (GOB) involved in the reform program, in particular the
Ministry of Finance (MOF). The first BR-DPC (US$40 million) agreement was signed on
15-02-2007 and the credit became effective in March, 2007 for which some of the prior
actions in the Policy Matrix were completed. The second BR-DPC (US$60 million) will be
provided upon completion of the prior actions according to the Policy Matrix.

At a later stage (after FY2009), after significant progress on reform, the World Bank plans
the investment project titled "Railway Modernization Project" (US$200 Million) covering
priority investments for infrastructure and rolling stock rehabilitation and expansion in
Bangladesh Railway (BR).

IMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS:

The DPC Credit was a policy credit and no project/program/activity of Bangladesh
Railway (BR) was undertaken against the credit. Hence there is project/program the
Implementation Completion and Result Report (ICR) could not be prepared as desired by
WB.

However, the second BR-DPC (US$60 million) and future invest project titled
"Bangladesh Railway Modernization Project" are linked with the reform program of BR.
There are some triggers/ conditions for processing the 2nd DPC & investment loan
agreed on during the loan negotiation of 1st DPC between GOB and the International
Development Association (IDA) held on Sept 13-14, 2006.

The Triggers for Second BR-DPC and their present status are as follows ­

The Triggers of Second DPC (US$ 60 million) and their Status:


 Sl.                    Triggers                                  Present Status
 No.
i       Reorganization of BR by Lines of       The steering Committee has given in principal
        Business (LOB) completed and all BR    approval on Working Paper-1 (LOB Structure
        staff assigned to positions in the     Report) and Working Paper-2 (LOB Organogram) on
        approved structure.                    17-12-2008. There after a summary for the Cabinet
                                               has been drafted and submitted to MOC for further
                                               action at the end. After approval of LOB structure &
                                               Organogram Detailed LOB structure will be finalised.
                                               All BR staff may be assigned after approval of


                                              24

  Sl.                  Triggers                                      Present Status
  No.
                                                 detailed LOB structure.
ii    Identify non-core services, develop and    Relevant report (WP-6) has been submitted by
      approve an outsourcing/divesture plan      consultants on 23-11-2008 and presently it is under
      for non-core services.                     review of BR.
iii   Develop an Architecture/model for a new    New cost accounting and financial management
      accounting and financial management        architecture (WP-9) based on accrual basis of
      system that will produce BR's financial    accounting has been finalized on 17-11-2008.
      statements for each LOB in conformity
      with international accounting standards
      and best practices in the railway industry
      and also enable restatement of these
      financial statements to ones that conform
      to Government reporting requirements.
iv    Identify passenger services that need      As per contract agreement with the reform
      public service obligation (PSO) subsidies  consultants the concern issues to be addressed by
      and implement a mechanism to calculate     18th-23th month from the fielding of consultants i.e.
      and pay PSO subsidies.                     by Oct. 2009.
v     Implement a new internal pricing           As per contract agreement with the reform
      structure for the services provided by the consultants the concern issues to be addressed by
      individual LOB to other LOB                20th-23th month from the fielding of consultants i.e.
      (infrastructure access charge, utilization by Oct. 2009.
      of assets, services in workshops, traction
      services).
vi    Satisfactory implementation of             Both BR & MOC were agreed that the relation
      performance agreement between BR and       between Government and its agencies are well-
      MOC starting FY2008 as an interim          defined by Rules of Business, Charter of duties,
      governance structure for clarifying        different Code and Manuals. So, there is no need for
      responsibilities and accountability.       signing such agreement between BR & MOC at this
                                                 stage.
                                                 However, as an intermediate step to improve the
                                                 performance and efficiency of BR some Key
                                                 Performance Indicators (KPIs) may be fixed in the
                                                 form of `Result Framework' and closely monitored
                                                 by MOC instead of signing PMA. BR will need some
                                                 authorities to take necessary steps to achieve its
                                                 desired/targeted goals and MOC would have to
                                                 provide some support/facilities to BR to achieve its
                                                 desired/targeted goals to fulfill KPI(s).
                                                 BR has sent a `Draft Result Framework' to MOC on
                                                 15-12-2008.
vii   Formulate performance-based incentive      As per contract agreement with the reform
      structure and accountability measures for  consultants the concern issues to be addressed by
      key BR management personnel to be          18th-23th month from the fielding of consultants i.e.
      implemented after the transformation of    by Oct. 2009.
      BR into a corporate entity is approved.
viii  The agreed BR Annual Maintenance plan      BR's three-years maintenance plan was submitted to
      is implemented and MOF provides            MOC on 06-09-2006. Further the detailed of BR's
      sufficient funding to meet the             three-years maintenance plan was sent to MOC on
      maintenance funding requirement.           14-12-2006. Accordingly MOF has increased the
                                                 maintenance Budget of BR for FY 2007-08 and
                                                 2008-09.
                                                 The comparison of maintenance budget for last 7
                                                 years & the current year have been stated in
                                                 Annexure ­ 1.



                                                25

The implementation of the actions to fulfill the Second DPC triggers is going on.
Consultants are working against a project titled "Reform of Bangladesh Railway" and a
TA project titled "Institutional Support for Bangladesh Railway" under the financing of
Asian Development Bank (ADB). ADB is providing ADF loan amounting US$30 million
for Reform and US$ 2.00 million for TA program.

The second DPC Triggers are supposed to be fulfilled by October, 2009 subjected to the
approval of the proposed LOB structure within 1 month.

There are some other Conditions as follows ­

Environmental Audit of BR:

BR expressed their concurrence to WB on the TOR for `Environmental Audit in BR' on
25-08-2008. BR has sent a letter along with final TOR & draft request letter for WB's
Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant amounting US$ 425500 (294
Lakh) to MOC on 07-10-2008. WB has not yet confirmed the fund. After confirmation of
financing a TA project will be prepared by BR. In the last Aide Memoire the
Environmental Audit of BR was identified as a condition of appraisal of investment loan.
So, the financing has to be finalized by WB at the earliest.

Establishment of Environmental & Social Unit (ESU) in BR:

The provision for establishment of ESU has been kept against an approved TPP titled
"Technical Assistance for Feasibility Study, Safeguard Policy Study, Detailed
Engineering Design and Tendering Services for Projects under World Bank Funding for
Bangladesh Railway". The posts have been created by MOC on 06-11-2008.


Draft Act to Transform BR into Government ­Owned Corporate Entity:

As per contract agreement with the reform consultants a Strawman Draft is to be prepares
by 24th month i.e. November, 2009 for stakeholder discussions. The Draft Act would be
placed to the parliament for approval by 46th month, i.e. by September, 2011. This is not
a trigger for 2nd DPC.




                                            26

      Annex 4 (Continued): Annexure 1: ECONOMIC CODE WISE MAINTENANCE ALLOCATION OVER LAST 7 YEARS &
                                              CUREENT YEAR FOR BANGLADESH RAILWAY
                                                                (FY 2001- 02 to 2008-09)


                                                                                                                           (Taka in Lakh)
Economic          Description of Item                                   Maintenance Allocation over past 7 years & ongoing year
  Code
                                          2001-02   2002-03    2003-04    2004-05  2005-06   2006-07           2007-08                   2008-09
                                                                                                           Total    Against      Total     Against TYMRP
                                                                                                                    TYMRP
  4854       Purchase of consumable       5700.00   6800.00    7000.00    8000.00   6600.00    7000.00   10122.47    1655.97      9836.79          1731.05
             materials
             (Mechanical, Signal, telecom
             & Electrical maintenance
             works)
  4922       Repair, Maintenance &        1700.00   2100.00    2760.00    3000.00   3700.00    3760.00   10918.55    6370.83      9972.00          5455.44
             Rehabilitation of P-way
             materials & Civil works
             (Track maintenance including
             materials & equipments)

  4936       Repair, Maintenance &           0.00      0.00     200.00     200.00    100.00       0.00    1504.00    1504.00       768.00           768.00
             Rehabilitation of Roads &
             Bridge
  4921       Repair, Maintenance &         770.00   1050.00    1070.67    1300.00   1200.00    1400.00    1693.30                 1300.00
             Rehabilitation of Office
             Building including station
             buildings

                       GRAND TOTAL :      7400.00   8900.00    9960.00 11200.00 10400.00 10760.00 22545.02           9530.80                       7954.49

Additional budget provided against Three
years maintenance budget (against                                                                               9530.8                   7954.49
Economic Code 4854, 4922 and 4936 only).

       N. B. The maintenance cost mentioned above excludes the cost of maintenance man power




                                                                              27

 Annex 5. Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders Comments on the Draft ICR

Comments from ADB:

Bangladesh Railway Reform Programmatic Development Policy Credit ADB Comments
on the Draft Implementation Completion arid Results Report (ICR)

A.      Overall comments

·  We found that the report provides assessment in the current LOB restructuring proposal as
   "moderately satisfied" (Chapter 3.2, pages 10/11, objective 1 and item (i) in the table on page 23). This
   would send a different message from what we requested BR to modify in the current proposal6.

·  As discussed in our email transactions (dated 16 March 2009), in the current consultant proposal,
   we do not see any substantial changes in the organization proposed and it does not meet the
   requirements to process the next loan for ADB. In the current consultant proposal, both pax
   and freight LOBs are only "marketing" units, e.g., scheduling, ticketing, sales. They do not have
   any personnel and assets and are not responsible for train operations. We understand that WB
   shares the same view with us.

·  We would like to suggest that the report clarifies the following so that it conveys the message that we
   share the same position:

    -    While the reform progress has been delayed, we now received an internal proposal by BR's
         Operations Directorate, which is more acceptable with respect to our expectations.

    -    After a prolonged internal consultation and exchange with development partners, a valid proposal
         has come out from BR itself. As the proposal comes from internal BR, we consider it the
         fastest option to adopt this approach.


B.     Specific comments

·  2.1 Program performance (page 5). Four actions were listed as prior actions for the first DPC.
   The first 3 items are relating to LOB restructuring. BR had agreed to these actions when ADB had
   agreed to provide the first 2 loans. However, the principle of the agreed LOB structure was re-
   considered by BR and no appointment of LOB heads and key staff was made. Efforts of the BR
   reform have been to simply re-instate the principle of LOB structure as agreed, but it is still yet agreed.

·  Second DPC triggers, Restructuring by LOB (page 6). It mentioned that "it is designed such
   that each LOB head controls the major assets, human and other resources and operates train
   services in line with market demand." However, as we have provided our above overall comments,
   the design does not follow the LOB principle.




6The comment was based on a previous version of the ICR. The final rating of the DPO is now set as Moderately Unsatisfactory
and consistent with ADB comment.
                                                          28

·  Steering Committee (page 6). Substantial discussions were made only recently in October (5th
   meeting) and the follow-up in December 2008 (6th meeting). MOC now requests participation
   of development partners to ensure views of development partners were duly reflected in the BR
   proposal.


3.2 Achievement of program development objectives, the assessment of Objective 1 (page 12).
This provides that the work on the design and implementation of the restructuring is well underway. This
may send a wrong message that the current proposal is acceptable to us. There is no substantial
progress. However, we could say that now we have internal proposal from Operations Directorate
which is acceptable to us. An organogram approved by the Steering Committee does not reflect our
requirements, and hence we requested BR to modify the proposal. We would like this to be clarified
well to convey the message that WB also requires same principles of LOBs as ADB's requirements.

·  Triggers of Second DPC (matrix on page 23).

        Item (i). The status needs to be clarified as well in line with the aforementioned aspect.

        Item (iii). We have not reviewed WP-9. "Finalized" may send a different message that we have
        reviewed the document.

· The table in Annex 7, page 29. The following may need to be corrected:
    -   FY 07: Reform TA $ 2 Million, not $ 30 million; Multi-tranche Financing Facility of $ 430
        million approved, not $ 400 million; first tranche comprising 2 bans: $ 100 million for
        investment component and $ 30 million for reform component, not $ 100 million
        altogether.
    -   FY 08: Second tranche: $ 150 million, not $ 100 million (approval delayed, subject to reform)
    -   FY 09: Third tranche: $ 100 million, not $ 150 million (approval delayed, subject to reform)

Comments from JICA:

In our opinion the ICR is fine. But could you please add JICA's contribution in railway sector in
connection with reform. May be following can be added if appropriate:

Bangladesh Railway received a loan from JICA in December 2007 in the amount of 12,916 million Yen
toward the cost of Dhaka-Chittagong Railway Development Project. The Project consist of              five
components (i) Track Doubling between Laksam and Chinkiastana; (ii) Chittagong Station Yard
Remodeling;     (iii) Improvement of Pahartoli Workshops; (iv) Procurement of Locomotives (v) Skill
Development Program. The Project is a part of Multi-Donor Development Partnership.

There are direct linkages between actions to restructure BR by Line of Business (LOB) and the process of
the project. Reform program will be the condition of JICA concurrence for contracts of the :

        1)      Double Tracking between Laksam and Chinki Astana (4,052 million Yen): Under the
        project total 61 km new double track will be constructed. Accordingly, the necessary upgrading
        of the bridges, stations and signaling and telecommunications will be taken up.

        2)       Chittagong Station Yard Re-modeling (466 Million Yen): Re-modeling of Chittagong
        Station Yard will be done in order to enhance the capacity of the station. Three additional loops
        and one platform will be constructed and rehabilitation of tracks and facility will be done.



                                                      29

                  Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents



1. Project Appraisal Document, Bangladesh Railway Reform Programmatic
   Development Policy Credit, September 2006

2. Financing Agreement, Bangladesh Railway Reform Programmatic Development
   Policy Credit, February 2007

3. Aide Memoires of preparation missions

4. Aide Memoires of supervision missions

5. Implementation Status Reports, 2007-2008

6. Country Assistance Strategy for Bangladesh, 2006-2009

7. Bangladesh Railway Information Book: 2005, 2006 and 2007.

8. Asian Development Bank Bangladesh Railway Preparation and Supervision
   Mission Reports




                                     30

             Annex 7. Development Partnership for Bangladesh Railway Reform
                              and Investment Program Initially Planned

                           Unified Policy Matrix and Railway Investment Program




                                                           MOF/Planning
                                 MOC/BR                      Commission




                                                                                                  Required Prior
Timeline                                                                                           Actions for
                   ADB                   JBIC              World Bank                DFID
                                                                                                    approval


          Reform TA (US$2 m);      Capacity Building                         Multimodal
          Multi-tranche           TA;                                        Transport Policy;     DPC Prior
FY07     investment loan (US$ 430  Debt cancellation;       First DPC        Railway              Actions Met
         m) approved;              Investment Loan          (US$40 m)        Development Master
          First Tranche Loan      (US$100 m)                                 Plan (ongoing)
         Released (US$130m)



FY08      Second Tranche Loan:     Investment Loan      Investment Project                        FY08 Reform
             Delayed Release          Disbursed         preparation Started                       Actions Met
                (US$150)

                                                        Second DPC
FY09       Third Tranche Loan                          (US$60 m);                                 Second DPC
             Delayed Release                            Investment Project                        Triggers Met
               (US$100m)                               US$200 m)



FY10 -11   Fourth Tranche Loan                                                                   FY10-11 Reform
                (US$50m)                                                                          Actions Met




                                                     31

                                            Annex 8. List of Agreed Key Performance Indicators with Updated Values

                                                                                                                Latest Status7       % Change       End-of-Program
                           Indicators                                    Baseline            2005-06 Reporting

                                                                      (2004 ­ 2005)                                (2006-07          Expected       Indicators (2011)8
                                                                                                                  Reporting)
Passenger km [million]                                                      4,164                  4,390             4,590              10%                 4,561

Ton-km [million]                                                            817                    821                776               5%                   858

Container Traffic (TEUs)                                                   71,481                 81,270             76,572           30 - 50%       90,000 - 100,000

Labor productivity (calculated by total passenger-km + total ton-                                                   161,650
km divided by total number of employees for the core services)                                   152, 342
                                                                          131,078                                                       50%               ~200,000


Asset utilization:                                                                                                     (a)
(a) Freight:                                                                 (a)                     (a)           (BG)* 946             (a)                  (a)
Net-ton-kilometer per wagon-day (calculated by total ton-                (BG)* 644              (BG)* 1066         (MG)** 93          (BG) 25%            (BG) 805
km/total wagons in fleet/365)                                           (MG)** 158              (MG)** 112                           (MG) 30%             (MG) 205
(b) Passenger: Average number of passengers per vehicle-day                                                            (b)
(calculated by total passenger trips/total coaches--4 wheeled                (b)                    (b)             (BG) 20              (b)                  (b)
equivalent/365);                                                          (BG) 16                 (BG) 19           (MG) 24           (BG) 25%             (BG) 20
(c) Locomotive:                                                           (MG) 19                (MG) 19                             (MG) 25%              (MG) 24
Train-km per locomotive per day (calculated as total train                                                             (c)
km/total locomotives in fleet/365)                                           (c)                     (c)            (BG) 163             (c)                  (c)
                                                                         (BG) 162                (BG) 165          (MG) 172           (BG) 25%            (BG) 200
                                                                         (MG) 183                (MG) 177                            (MG) 25%             (MG) 230

Increased Operating Revenue as a share of total revenue                     62%                                       48%            Increased to
                                                                                                   46%                                                       70%
Working (Operating) ratio (defined as total annual operating                                                          168%           Decreased to
expenses divided by total annual operating revenue)                        127.6%                  174%                                                     100%

Improved user satisfaction of rail system (user satisfaction       First user satisfaction                        Social Impact                          Second user
survey will be carried out before and after reform program         carried out during first                     Assessment carried                  satisfaction at the end
implementation)                                                    year of implementation                              out                                of program




7The BR 2008 book is not yet available and is likely to be published in May 2009
8Indicators to be achieved after the completion of the DPC program and investment projects by donors.
Source: Bangladesh Railway Information Handbook (2005, 2006, 2007); * Broad Gauge; **Meter Gauge




                                                                                            32

                                              Annex 9: Programmatic Development Policy Operation Program Matrix




                                                               Policy Actions                                                                                Indicators

    Reform                     DPC1                                  DPC2                          Post DPC2 Actions10         Baseline       Intermediate        End-of-Program      Source of Data for
  Component         (prior actions are bolded)                  Reform Action                                               (2004 ­ 2005)  Outcomes by 2009      Indicators (2010)     Monitoring and
Objectives/Rela                                                Triggers9in Bold                                                                                                       Responsible Entity
    ted CAS
   Objective
Macroeconomic              Satisfactory         Satisfactory Macroeconomic Performance                  Satisfactory                                                                        IMF
    Stability            Macroeconomic                                                               Macroeconomic                                                                     Macroeconomic
                          Performance                                                                  Performance                                                                    Assessment Reports
                                                      Component 1: Restructure Bangladesh Railway by line of business (LOB)
Increase BR         Formal adoption and          Reorganization of BR by LOB                    Complete the                Technical and LOB structure is      Labor Productivity    BR Annual Report
customer           approval of LOB structure    completed and all BR staff assigned to          divestiture/outsourcing of  Region-based  working effectively   increase (see Table
orientation                                     positions in the approved structure.            all non-core services in    structure                           1-BR Reform
                    Appointment of heads                                                        accordance with the                       Managerial            Program
Improve access                                   Develop an agreed 5-year business plan
                   of LOBs                                                                      approved                                  relationship and      performance
to and quality if                               for each LOB and BR as a whole showing          outsourcing/divesture plan.               reporting lines       Indicators):
infrastructure                                  what the LOB operational and financial                                                    clarified between HQ  200,000 traffic units
services, by        Assignment of Key staff     targets are, the service quality it will offer                                            management and        / employee (50%
improving          to LOBs to support LOB       and the expenditure necessary for each LOB                                                LOB field managers    higher than in 2006)
governance and     heads and work with the      and BR as a whole
private sector     reform consultant in
participation      implementing LOB              Develop key performance indicators                                                                             BR's traffic
(CAS Objective     structure                    (KPI) for each LOB to achieve business plan                                                                     handling capacity
Supported)                                      targets.                                                                                                        on Dhaka-
                    Effective                    BR asset registry completed with all BR                                                                        Chittagong
                   Communication Strategy       assets to be identified, revalued and recorded                                                                  Transport Corridor
                   developed for the reform     in a new asset register which shows which                                                                       Improved and
                   program to communicate       LOB owns which asset.                                                                                           achieves 30 - 50%
                   internally within BR and                                                                                                                     increase in
                   externally to the public      Identify non-core services, develop and                                                                        container traffic
                                                approve an outsourcing/divesture plan for                                                                       (CAS Outcome)
                                                non-core services.

                                                 Review performance of LOBs and report
                                                on LOB performance submitted.




          9 Some of the triggers were expected to be done by 2008 and some will be done by the end of the reform program
          10 These reforms are in line with ADB's operations


                                                                                                      33

                             Component 2: Transform BR into a Government Owned Corporate Entity

Clarify               GOB approval of the Integrated              GOB gives BR the            Government    Draft Corporate Bill   Improved user and     User satisfaction
relationship         Multimodal Transport Policy                 authority to set freight     Department    ready; BR has the      stakeholder           survey will be carried
between                                                          tariffs at market sensitive,               right to set freight   satisfaction of rail  out by independent
government and            Satisfactory implementation of         compensatory levels                        tariffs and 1st class  system                firm before and after
BR                   performance agreement between BR and                                                   passenger tariffs                            reform program

                     MOC starting FY2008 as an interim            GOB gives BR the                                                                       implementation.
Improve access       governance structure for clarifying         authority to set passenger
to and quality if    responsibilities and accountability.        fares for First Class
infrastructure                                                   Passengers at market
services, by                                                     sensitive, compensatory
improving             Decide on and approve options for the
                                                                 levels
governance and       form and legal status of BR for its
private sector       transformation into a government owned
participation        corporate entity taking into account the     BR transformed into
(CAS Objective       experience gained in restructuring BR by    corporate entity
Supported)           LOB.
                                                                  Finalize and approve
                      Draft Act to transform BR into a           technical and safety
                     government-owned corporate entity prepared  regulatory framework for
                     for discussion by stakeholders.             rail sector after BR is
                                                                 transformed into a
                                                                 corporate entity including
                                                                 roles, reporting
                                                                 arrangements and
                                                                 institutional strengthening
                                                                 for safety and technical
                                                                 regulatory body.


                             Component 3: Transparent cost accounting and financial reporting system
Improve               Develop an Architecture/model for a         BR accounts audited         Government    International          Working Ratio
financial            new accounting and financial management     by a well recognized         accounting    accounting system      improved from
management and       system that will produce BR's financial     private auditor.             system; true  for railway approved,  127% to 100%
subsidy              statements in conformity with                                            cost of       draft design
arrangement for      international accounting standards and       Implement a new tariff      services      completed, system
BR                   best practices in the railway industry and  structure for all BR core    unknown       procured, and
                     also enable restatement of these financial  services and revise tariff                 implemented
Improve access       statements to ones that conform to          book according to the
to and quality if    Government reporting requirements.          approved tariff structure.
infrastructure
services, by          New accounting and financial

improving            management system to be fully implemented    All qualifications from
governance and       with the production of financial management previous external audit
private sector       and accounting statements as agreed in the  corrected.
participation        accepted architecture.

(CAS Objective        Identify passenger services that need
Supported)           public service obligation (PSO) subsidies


                                                                        34

                    and implement a mechanism to calculate
                    and pay PSO subsidies.

                     Implement a new internal pricing
                    structure for the services provided by the
                    individual LOB to other LOB
                    (infrastructure access charge, utilization
                    of assets, services in workshops, traction
                    services).
                     Financial reports and budget reports
                    published and disclosed for public
                    information.

                    GOB to provide a fully compensatory PSO
                    for all passenger services it wishes to be
                    operated.

                                                Component 4: Human Resources Management
Improve staff        Set up personnel database with                 Formulate a new             HR Plan not  All BR staff entered Annual             MOC and BR
incentive and       completed data for all BR staff and            market-based financial       practiced    into database.       Performance
career prospects    procedures for maintaining database in place.  remuneration structure for                Database kept up to  Contracts in force
                                                                   BR employees to be                        date                 (signed) for key
Improve              Identify personnel requirements showing       implemented after                                              BR management
governance and      skills needed at each LOB, skills existing at  transformation of BR into                                      personnel
efficiency in       BR, skills shortages and surpluses to          a corporate entity.
infrastructure      requirements, training and retraining needs,
(CAS Objective      and experts that need to be filled by          Based on principle that
Supported)          recruitment from outside BR for successful     staff will be no worse off,
                    implementation of LOB business plans.          prepare options for BR
                                                                   personnel to transfer to
                     Redefine job descriptions, career             corporate entity and
                    advancement process of the different staff     prepare the necessary
                    grades and professions needed to optimize      documentation for the
                    LOB structure and corporatization.             various accepted options.


                     Engage experts with needed skills from        Prepare and approve social

                    outside BR as and where necessary with the     safety net for BR staff, if

                    successful candidates appointed and in         any, who when BR is

                    service with BR.                               transformed into a
                                                                   corporate entity become
                                                                   redundant.
                    Formulate performance-based incentive
                    structure and accountability measures for
                    key BR management personnel to be
                    implemented after the transformation of
                    BR into a corporate entity is approved.




                                                                         35

                                                Component 5: Improve BR Operations, Maintenance Practices, and Performance
Improve           Three-year maintenance       The agreed BR Annual Maintenance                                               Improvement      BR Annual
operational       plan and funding             plan implemented                                                               of the asset     Report
performance and   arrangement for rail                                                                                        utilization as
asset utilization infrastructure and rolling   Improve timetabling, rake links,                                               follows
                  stock prepared and agreed    locomotive links, and terminal operating                                       Freight
                  and endorsed by Ministry     practices to reduce journey times in Dhaka-                                    wagons ­
                  of Finance                   Chittagong corridor by 10% compared to the                                     130%

                                               situation existing in December 2005.                                           Pass. Coaches
                                                                                                                              ­ 125%
                                                                                                                              Locomotives ­
                                               Implement online monitoring system to                                          125%
                                               collect and analyze data needed to monitor
                                               operational aspects of KPI for each LOB.


                                               Update all relevant operations and
                                               maintenance manuals by BR and formally
                                               adopt these new manuals.


                                               All agreed maintenance funding plans
                                               implemented


                                                                         Component 6: Improved Procurement Practices
Improve           Preliminary procurement      BR will enhance the implementation of the                                                       BR
procurement       assessment of BR carried out provisions of the Public Procurement
practices and                                  Regulations of 2003, including provisions for
transparency                                   contract award, delegation of financial
                                               powers, bidding process, and information
                                               disclosure.
                                                          Component 7: Improved Environment and Social Impact Management
Improve                                        Environmental Audit and Management                                                              BR
environmental                                  Plan carried out to bring BR operation in line
and social                                     with acceptable environmental standards.
impact
effectively                                    Social Impact Analysis carried out


                                               Environment and Social Unit established
                                               in BR with a basic staff of two environmental
                                               and two social specialists


                                               Environment and Social Impact
                                               Management Framework prepared to be used
                                               by all donors




                                                                                               36

                                                             Intermediate outcomes as of end 2008:
                                                             (see paragraph 3.2 For detailed comments)



                        Policy Actions                                                                Indicators

    Reform
  Component                  DPC1                     Baseline                                        Intermediate outcome as of end of 2008
Objectives/Rela    (prior actions are bolded)      (2004 ­ 2005)
    ted CAS
   Objective
Macroeconomic             Satisfactory                                    Achieved
    Stability          Macroeconomic
                         Performance
                                            Component 1: Restructure Bangladesh Railway by line of business (LOB)
Increase BR        Formal adoption and        Technical and Region-       Not achieved as the formal adoption of LOB is still due
customer          approval of LOB structure   based structure             In term of effective communication, BR, with the Bank's support, has undertaken a Social Impact
orientation                                                                Assessment to analyze the possible impacts of the reform program on BR's internal and external
                   Appointment of heads                                    stakeholders.
Improve access    of LOBs
to and quality if
infrastructure
services, by       Assignment of Key staff
improving         to LOBs to support LOB
governance and    heads and work with the
private sector    reform consultant in
participation     implementing LOB
(CAS Objective    structure
Supported)
                   Effective
                  Communication Strategy
                  developed for the reform
                  program to communicate
                  internally within BR and
                  externally to the public




                                                                                 37

                        Component 2: Transform BR into a Government Owned Corporate Entity

Clarify               Government            Partially achieved. Whilst the GOB has agreed in principle to give BR the autonomy and authority so as
relationship          Department            to have full control over issues such as staff promotion, tariff setting etc. the draft bill in order to define
between                                     the legal status of BR is expected to be available for consultation with stakeholders by November 2009.
government and                              As a trigger of the second DPC, a Performance Management Agreement (PMA) between BR and MOC
BR                                          was prepared during the period of the first DPC Although the PMA has yet to be signed by the two
                                            parties, a results framework with a number of key performance indicators, in the context of the
Improve    access                           proposed LOB structure, has been prepared and will be monitored by MOC.
to and quality if
infrastructure
services,      by
improving
governance and
private     sector
participation
(CAS Objective
Supported)

                        Component 3: Transparent cost accounting and financial reporting system
Improve               Government            Partially achieved. The new cost accounting and financial management architecture, a milestone for the
financial             accounting    system; second DPC, has been prepared by the reform consultants and approved by BR, pending
management and        true cost of services implementation once the LOBs are in place.
subsidy               unknown
arrangement for
BR

Improve    access
to and quality if
infrastructure
services,      by
improving
governance and
private     sector
participation
(CAS Objective
Supported)

                                     Component 4: Human Resources Management
Improve      staff    HR Plan not practiced Partially achieved. The reform consultants funded by ADB are helping BR to set up a personnel
incentive     and                           database and identify personnel requirements for BR to implement the business plan for each LOB.
career prospects                            Once the blue print of the HR strategy is in place, BR and MOC/GOB will have to ensure that


                                                          38

                                                                 appropriate and adequate staffing is in place at all levels of BR, all the way down to the field level, to
Improve                                                          ensure proper functioning of each LOB.
governance and
efficiency       in
infrastructure
(CAS Objective
Supported)

                                           Component 5: Improve BR Operations, Maintenance Practices, and Performance
Improve             Three-year                                   Partially achieved. While the consultants are helping BR setting up monitoring systems to collect and
operational         maintenance plan and                         analyze data related to operational efficiency, including developing software for monitoring KPIs
performance and     funding     arrangement                      related to each LOB, this component is still at a very initial stage pending implementation of the LOBs
asset utilization   for rail infrastructure                      to see full operational improvements.
                    and     rolling   stock
                    prepared     and agreed
                    and     endorsed    by
                    Ministry of Finance
                                                         Component 6: Improved Procurement Practices
Improve             Preliminary                                  Partially achieved due to delay in the reform process. BR has still to enhance the implementation of the
procurement         procurement                                  provisions of the Public Procurement Regulations of 2003, including provisions for contract award,
practices      and  assessment     of   BR                       delegation of financial powers, bidding process, and information disclosure.
transparency        carried out
                                              Component 7: Improved Environment and Social Impact Management
Improve                                                          Not achieved. BR is yet to create, as agreed during the appraisal of the first DPC, an Environment and
environmental                                                    Social Unit (ESU) that will enable it to better manage the environmental and social risks associated with
and social impact                                                direct investments that will come into the pipeline in the future. This unit is expected to take the lead in
effectively                                                      managing social and environmental risks and to use a more client oriented and client focused approach
                                                                 rather than a supply driven approach as has been the case in the past.




                                                                               39

Annex 10: Map




     40

