Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 4235-BD 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Bangladesh Railway Reform Programmatic Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  February 15 , 2007 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4235-BD 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated February 15, 2007, entered into between 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC 
OF BANGLADESH
 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in 
the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the 
basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and 
which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the 
Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to twenty-seven million 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 27,000,000) (“Credit”). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be 
carried out. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty 
(60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint 
Secretary, or Deputy Secretary, or Senior Assistant Secretary, or Assistant Secretary, or 
Joint Chief, or Deputy Chief, or Senior Assistant Chief, or Assistant Chief of the 
Economic Relations Division of the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
6.02. The 
Recipient
’s Address is: 
 
Economic Relations Division 
Ministry of Finance 
Government of the People’s Republic 
 
of
Bangladesh 
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar 
Dhaka, Bangladesh 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
BAHIRSAMPAD 
 
642226 SETU BJ 
88028113088 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
 
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED in Dhaka, People’s Republic of Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
By 
/s/
 Md. Aminul Islam Bhuiyan
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By 
/s/ Xian Zhu 
 
Country Director 
 
Bangladesh
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I.   
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken under the Program include the following:
 
(i) 
The Recipient has: (a) adopted, through a governmental decision, the lines of business 
structure for BR, in form and substance acceptable to the Association; (b) appointed all 
the heads of the lines of business, with the terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association; and (c) assigned all key staff to each of the lines of business, with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association. 
 
(ii) MOF 
has 
formally 
endorsed MOC’s request to increase BR’s maintenance funding 
requirement in line with BR’s three-year maintenance rolling plan. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General.
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing, in one single 
tranche, in accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions 
as the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
C.  
Audit
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
(4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request; and  
 
Page  6
-
5
-
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
D. 
Excluded Expenditures.  The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
E. Closing 
Date.
 
The Closing Date is January 31, 2008. 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
Repayable 
(Expressed as a Percentage)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15: 
 
commencing March 15, 2017 to and including September 
15, 2026 
 
1% 
commencing March 15, 2027 to and including September 
15, 2046 
 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“BR” means Bangladesh Railways, an agency owned and managed by the Recipient, 
which is responsible for the management and operation of the railway in Bangladesh. 
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
Page  9
-
8
-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Recipient and the Association); 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds during the procurement 
or execution of such contract, without the Recipient (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, with the modifications set forth 
in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
4. 
“MOC” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Communication. 
 
5. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance. 
 
6. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve 
the governance structure and operation of BR and set forth or referred to in the letter 
dated September 13, 2006, from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
Page  10
-
9
-
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“”Eligible Expenditure” means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
 
