Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12499
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
CENTR WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2167-IVC)
NOVEMBER 17, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12499
Type: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
his docment has a restficted distbution and my be used by rcipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diclosed without World Bank authorizaton 



Name of Cumcy (Abbreviation): Fanmc do ua Communat6 Finanire
AfriePine, CFA Fnc (CFAF)
Awmual Exchtq  Rate
1978    US$ 1 = 220 FCPA
1979    US$ 1 = 213 FCFA
1980    US$ I = 211 FCFA
1981    US$ I = 272 FCFA
1982    US$ I = 329 FCFA
1983   US$ I = 381 FCFA
1984   US$ I = 437 FCFA
1985    US$ I = 449 FCFA
1986   US$ I = 346 FCPA
1987   US$ 1 = 301 FCFA
1988   US$ 1 = 298 FCFA
1989    US$ 1 = 319 FCFA
Abbreviati-ons
BNDA          :      Banque lNationale pour le Ddveloppmem Agricole
National Bank for AgricUtulral Developamna
CCCE                 CaisSe Centrale de Coopertion Ecoomique
French Agency for nerational Development
CIDT          :      Compage Ivoimenne pour le Developpement des Textiles
Ivorian Company for Textile Development
CIDV                 Conmpagnie IvoieOne de Developpement des Vivners
Food Crops Development Company
CA            :      Centre Ivoirien de Motorison Agricole
Agricultural Motorization Parastatal
DCGTX         :      Direction et Contr6le des Grands Travaux
Civil Workm Authority
EDF           :      European Development Fund
FAC           :      Fonds d'Aide et de Coopation
Frewc   Internatonal Aid Fund
avc           :      Groupement i Vocation Coop6rative
Faners' Cooperative Association
IDESSA               Institut des Savanes
Savanna Research Instute
IGCI          :      Institut de Geographie de Cote d'Ivoire
Geographical Institute of COte d'Ivoire
IGN-FR        :      lstitut de Geogrphie National de France
National Geographical Institute of Frha
IRCC          :       istitt de la Recherche sur le Caf et le Cacao
Coffee and Cocoa Research ILstitute
MOA                  Ministry of Agriculture
NAEP                 National Agricutural Extension Project
PACO          :      Projet Agricole du Centre Ouest
Center West Agultural Development P&Vect
SATMACI              Societ6 d'Assistance Technique pour la Modemisatio do Agriadlture
Technical Assistance and Agricltural Modnin Corpation
SODEPALM             Societe pour le Developpement des Pabniers & Huilo
Palm Oil Development Corporation
T&V                  Training and Visit
FJna1t  Yer
JanuW7 1 to December 31



FOR OFFIC4L USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
MGMb of .obeM-GeW4d
Op_ate Ewubuaon
Noember 17, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE                     DIRECIORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:     Project Completion Report on COTE DIVOIRE
Center West Acultural Develoent Proect (Ln. 2167-I=C)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Cote dIvoire - Center West Agricultural
Development Project (Ln. 2167-IVC) prepared by the Afica Regional Office with Part H prepared
by the Borrower. The quality of the report is satisfactory.
The area development project was designed to (i) increase farm incomes through expanded
crop production and marketing; (ii) identify solutions to constraints to forest zone farming; and (iii)
support institutional reforms in parastatals responsible for agricultural development and rural credit
provision. Implementation experience was satisfactory despite a ccmplex project design, difficult
economic circumstances, frequent staff changes (both by the Borrower and the Bank) and the virual
coilapse of one of the implementing agencies. Disappointing performance of coffee and cocoa
production was partly offset by expanded food crop production. The preJect was implemented in two
components: area development and a pilot land tenure project. The latter appears to have been the
more successfuL
Project outcome is rated as satisfactory, institutional development as partial, and sustainability
as uncertain because of continuing economic difficulties in Cote dlvoire, poor prices for the principal
crops, inadequate availability of quality inputs, and weak infrastructure maintenance arrangements.
The project may be audited.
Attachment
This document has a rtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othsrwise be disclosed without World Bank outhorizaton.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
MM=£ILI OF CMll D'lSI
PRQ COMLEfINl,RQI
IERM Wl AGRICULTRL DEMEAUCr
(LOAN 2167-IVC)
TABLE OF CONTNS
PREFACE  ..... ............i
EVALUATIONSUMMARY  , , .................................... iii
PARTI:       PROJECT REVEEW FROM BANKS PERSPECTIE
1.   Project identity ...........                                          1
2.  Backpround ..................                                          1
3.   Projec Objectives and Description  ......,,,,,,,.,,. 2
4. Project Dsig and Organization ..                                        3
5. Project Implementation.                                                4
6. Project Results and Impact.                                            6
7. Project Sustnability.                                                   8
8.   Bank Performane                                                      8
9.   Bank Perfonnance: Finding ad Leo  Leaned                             9
10. Borrower Performance .10
11.  Studies and Consulting Services .10
PART 11:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Main Problems encountered by the project           .1
2. Achievement .12
3.   Relationship between the Borrower and External Financiers .13
4.  Overall Finamial Supevision .15
ARTm:    STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Relatd Bank Loans/Credits .16
2. Projec Timetable .17
3. Loan Disbursements .19
4. Project Implemen.20 2
5.  Project Costs and Financing .22
6. Project Financing .24
7. Allocation of Loan Proceeds .25
8. Direct Benefit of Project .26
8.(c) Economic Impat               227
9. Financi Impact .28
10. Land Tenure Pilot Operaion .30
11. Use of Bank Reources .31
ANNEXES   Annex 1: Organigram of the Project
Annex 2: Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
M4PS         IBRD  16022R and 16021R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



i
REEIJC OF C         D'IVOIcEo
RQEC CAPLETION REPORT
CENTER WEST AGRICULTRL DEVELOPMENI PROMM=
(LOAN N° 2167-IVC)
PEFACE&
This is the completion report (PCR) for the Center West Agricutbral Development
Project in COte d'Ivoire for which Loan 2167-IVC was approved on June 1, 1982 in the amount of US$
13.0 million. The loan was closed on December 31, 1990, after two extensions of the closing date.
Implementation of the project as originally conceived ended in March 1989; but at the request of the
Borrower, the US$ 3.5 million uncommitted balance was used to finmace a Pilot Land Tenure operation.
Final disbursements under the latter operation were made on May 14, 1991, leaving a total undisbursed
balance of USS 2,541,151.76 of which an amount of US$ 2,146,251.54 was canceled on September 25,
1991 and US$ 394,900.22 canceled on April 6, 1992.
This PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Opeations Division of the Occidental
and Central Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and  Q) ad the Borrower (Part
r). Preparation of the PCR is based, inter alia on the Staff Appraisal Report, the President's Report,
the Loan Agreement, Supevision documents, as well as reports from cofinanciers, Implemention
agencies, and consultant studies. A PCR mission visited C8te d'Ivoire in February 1992, with a follow
up in February 1993.
'Te submission of the report was delayed mainly to allow fuller implementation of the
Pilot Land Tenure Project, still on-going with cofinanciers' financing, and to enable a more
comprehensive assessment of all operations financed under Loan 2167-IVC.



liii
REPUBLIC OF CQ1E D' ldR
PROJECTCOMPLETI N REPORT
CEN1E WEST AGRI=:TRA DEVELOPMENT PRQJ=I
(LOAN No 2167-IVC)
E-VAUAlTION S[JbIMXR
BaKunmd and Project Objectives
1.           By the end of the 1970's, the Center West region of C&te d'Ivoire became the new
fronter of the development of coffee and cocoa, the ,w:n engine of the Ivorian economy. The Bank
previously supported this dynamic with II alia two cocoa projects (Loan 686IVC, US$ 7.5 million
and Loan 1069-IVC, US$20.0 million). Lessons from these projects clearly demonsated the need that
subsequent support to agricutural development be undertaken within a more comprehensive mandate of
iral development, integrating production as well as farmers' services and credit activities. Also, as
production activities in the region multiplied with an increasing mnmber of non-resident faming
population, the need became more obvious to address problems of rapid deforestaion, factor (and and
labor) constrans, and poal resisace from indigenous population.
2.           The main objectves of the Center-West Project were to (a) increase farm income by
eouraging agricultural intensification and diversification, b) provide a model for alleviatng growing
factor constraints in the forest zone, and (c) provide support for the reforms of extension and credit
parastatals. These were to be achieved through a crop development program based on land-saving
husbandry techniques for coffee, cocoa, maize and rice; and through strengthening, at the regional level,
the management and staffing of SATMACI (the rural development/extension agency) and BNDA (the
agricultural bank). The balance of the loan was used to fund a Pilot Land Tenure Project which sought
to further develop the land magement component of the original pioject, by promoting village
participation in the clarification of land rights and land-use planning in five regions of Cote d'Ivoire.
Both projecs were fully consistent with the Bank's broader program of promoting agricultural policy
reform in C8te d'Ivoire.
Impementation Expeience
3.           Preparation of the Center-Ws Prj  was lengthy because co-financiers needed to iron
out diverging views on project design, scope, and key components. The end-resut of these protracted
discussions was a well thought, comprehensive, and coherent project Its implemenaion, however, was
hampered by frequent changes in management staff, slowness in recruiting key staff, and the inability of
the Govenment to fund delivery of inputs through SATMACI. By 1982, the promotion of coffee
planting was discontinued altogether and coffee nurseries were closed, thereby compromising the
achievement of relevant project objectives. In 1985, the conduct of the extension activities of the project
was redesigned along the lines of the Training and Visit (&V) extension system then being introduced
as a national program. This mid-course redesign, although for the better did not allow for an immediate
adjustment to the new T&V concept. It also did not meet fill reception from the cofinancier. At the
field implemention level, conflicts between project management and national SATMACI headquarters
somewhat constrained project adminisaion.



iv
At the end of its scheduled closinZ date (December 1987), the Project needed, and was
granted, an exteion. At the end of the latter period, another extension was request  and graned to
allow for the implemenotatio of the PM Lad ]Co= hjed. (Eventa dosing of the original Center-
West Project cme on December 31, 1989). The Bank finced the Pilot Project in only two of the five
planned test zones. Project implemenation in the other three zones is stll on-going with CCCE and FAC
fiacing.
Project Results and Impact
4.           The most obvious positive impact of the Cente-Ws Proect is to have helped farmers
increase awareness and adoption of improved methods of cocoa and coffee husbandry. Where these
methods of cultivation have been successfully implemented, they helped cushion decline in farm income
or improve profitability of farming. In effect, by applying the multiple-sem prunming metheM introduced
by the project, farmers would no longer have to forsake eanings as they would have with the traditional
SATMACI pruning method which leaves no bearing stems. Also, in as much as it introduced a system
of extesion with polyvalent front-line extension agents and farmer contact groups, key features of the
N2tional Agricultural Extension Ptoject adopted shordy after, the Center-West ect contributed to the
rationalization of assistance to faimers and to an important institutional development.
5.           Despite these positive contributions, several quantitative targets were not meL For some
of these targets (such as areas planted in coffee and hybrid cocoa) variances with appraisa estimates were
partly due to drastic decline in the prices of key project crops (coffee and cocoa). Whereas for other
targets, reasons for the shortfall are simply to be linked to the inability to carry out relevant project
components. Tbis was the case for the production of coconut, arabusta coffee, groundnut, and yam. The
light tractors introduced by the project were ill-adapted to some landscapes, in addition to their after-sale
servicing and maienance being defective. As for farmers' group organizations, the results were mixed.
Farmer cooperatives were successfilly promoted, having been formed on the basis of affinty rather than
on a mere geo-administrative criteria. However, the fact that these cooperatives could not significantly
undertake marketing of coffee and cocoa, the most important cash crops of the region, raise concerns
over their long term viability. With respect to rura credit, although BNDA's loan recovery rates were
satisfactory, lending arrangements were severed by its liquidity problems which later (1992) resulted in
its liquidation. Land tenure conflicts hampered betom-land development. While increasing the
participation of villagers in land management would have attenuated such conflicts, this was not pursued
successfiuly under the Center West Proji.
6.           The Pilot Land Tenure Project achieved its nain objectives in the two zones where it was
implemented with Bank financing, obtaining full participation by village groups and municipal authorities
in the clarification of land rights.
Project Sustainability
7.           After the Center-West Project went into effect, the country's general macro-economnic
environment deteriorated and the Government, facing severe budget deficits, could no longer sustain the
level of funding required to keep up the project, let alone to consolidate its positive contributions and
extend them to regions beyord project area. Whether adequate Govermnment support would resume,
should the general economic siuation improve, is difficult to assert. In any case, subsequent development
in restructuring the cocoa and coffee filieres to render them more responsive to international market
forces



v
should put less stress on Government budgeL The agronomic methods of pruning and upkseping of
coffee es introduced by the project have ben fully adopted as routine crop husbandry practices in the
Center West; since they proved to be cost effective, it seems rational to expect farmers to sustain their
use. Similar expectation cannot be held for other crops intrduced by the project: lowland rice
development still plagued by insecurity of land tenure and inadequate supply of required inputs; coconut
tree plantation still has no upstream support. Given the strong demand for the clarification of land rights,
demonstrated by local population and administration, the positive results of the fal LW Tenure Prject
have already been internalized. The experience gained under this pilot operation has served as an
important input for a proposed self-standing land tenure project
frndings and Lessons Lear=4W
8.           Several of the valuable lessons learned from the C -We    are already reflected
in tho Bank's current approach to extension, adaptive research, credit and land management issues in C8te
d'Ivoire. Approaches to extension and land management now give full credit to pilot projects that start
with selected zones and gradually involve more farmers and village groups in managing resources. The
need to simultaneously address several constraints of the farmers' working environment is understandable
given the complementarity of these constraint; and this provided the rationale for most integrattd rural
development projects. 'Te experience of the project, however, demonstrated that perhaps the objectives
and scope should be kept at an optimally manageable level. More specifically, mandating a tree crop
development parasttal agency, and especially one of its regional office, to undertake food crop
development and associated support services, tuned out not only too ambitious, but also
counterproductive since there were no economies of scope to justify that the parstatal should undertake
tha many and apparently unrelated activities.
The Pilot    Tenure Proj  demonstrated the importance of a participative approach
to land tenure administration. Its model has been successfully applied to other natural resource
management projects developed by the Bank.



REPuBLI 9FDE CM IYO1M
CERNMR WEST AGRICULTURAL DERVELOPMIEN PROJECT
(LOAN 2167-IVC)
PART I. PROJE(EV E FROM  1 S PESPE
1.    Poe  Id
Project name        :     Cner-West Agriculural DeveAopment Project
Loan No                   2167 IVC
RVP Unit                  Occidental and Central Afica
Country            C:te d'lvoire
Sector                    Agriclture
Subsector                 Rural Development
2.    Background
2.01         Sector Development Obiectives. Cote d'Ivoire regisered one of the highest per-capita
income growth of non-il producing countries in the 1960's and 1970s, about 7% p.a. his rapid growth
stemmed from a dynamic agriculbural sector accounting for over 50% of the country's GDP. Abundance
of land resources and ample supply of labor force (a large share of which was Immgrant and cheap)
ssined the high performance of the agricultural seor and were compatible with extensive cultivation
of coffee and cocoa, the two pillars of the Ivorian economy. As the high potent  areas for producing
these cash crops in the Southern and the Eastern part of the country, faced factor (and and labor)
constraints in the 1970s, the Center-West became the new fronder of coffee-cocoa expansion. Ihus, by
1980, this region which represents 7% of the national territory produced 20% of Ivorian outut of both
commodities. To support the development of the region while helping diversify the cunty's production
base, the Bank, European Development Fund (EDF), and Government financed planting of cocoa hybris
(Ln. 686IVC, US$ 7.5 million and Ln. 1069-IVC, US$ 20.0 million) and bottom-land rice in the Center-
West. Ihese operations, however, were single-crop projects failing to exploit linkges betwen different
activ"ies in the farming syst - and their productive synergy. To break with this narrow apprcach in the
1980s, Government sought to create multicrop regional development agencies that would support
smallholder farming.
2.02         Policy Contex. Ite coutry's need for diversification out of cocoa and coffee coincided
with the Bank's concerns over furher worldwide expansion of production capacity in "surplus
commodities" (among which coffee and cocoa, and for which the Bank issued in 1982  InteriM
Guidelines" regulating the financing of their expansion) beyond their respective demand growth. Thus,
the Government agreed to: (a) reduce by 60 percent its program for new cocoa plantations, eliminatin
cash subsidies to render the fdlibre more responsive to market forces; (b) increase the retail price of rice
in order to create a margin sufficient to attrc private opeors into marketing and milling; (c) strengthen
the project implemention capacity of the Agriculture Ministry; and (d) reduce the aeas of public
enterpises. The aims of the Center-West projec, were consistet with this overal policy thuast.
2.03         Uhftgage -Beoveen Projfflc and NaWazide PQlijZ Objefives. MTe project factated the
accomplishment of other important sectoral and z-oeconomic objectives prevailing at the tme of



2
appraW. Indeed, the project was to pioneer new methods of isificaon suitable for forest zones and
to provide the ground work for tenure security -all of which contributing to sustainable agricultural
growth. Also by introducing a new system of provision of agricultural services, with a leaner and focused
extension workforce, and fostering diversification (albeit timidly), the project conwibuted to, and fitted
well into, Government objectives for more efficient and less cosdy agricultural services.
3.         LQWec ObiesZ and DesiUn
Under Loan 2167-IVC, two somewhat distinct projects were utimately financed: the
original Center-West initiative (hereafter, PACO -Project Agricole du Centre-Ouest) and a supplementary
Pilot Land Tenure project (hereafter, the Pilot Project). This second operation was designed to reinforce
the land management component of PACO without focusing exclusively on the Center-West.
3.01         Pro    Obj=. The aim of PACO was to increase the income of 28,000 farm
families by raising output of cocoa, coffee, rice, maize and other food crops and promoting farmers'
participation in marketing cooper tives; to ease labor consrAins and conserve forest by improved land
management and agricultural intensification; and to provide support at the regional level to reforms of
the crop development agency, SATMACI and the agricultutal development bank, BNDA. The PilQtLand
Tlnura project sought to map land use and parcel boundaries in five regions representative of forest and
savna conditions in COte d'Ivoire. These maps would form the basis for identifying land rights at the
vilage level, an exercise involving sensitization of viUlagers and enbancement of local-level capacity for
resolving tenure disputes. TMis pilot operation was perfectly consistent with the objective of PACO to
improve village-based land management and promote agricultural intensificaton.
3.02         Priect
(A) CENTE-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The project would achieve its stated objectives specifically by underting the following activities:
-     Plant 9,640 ha of robusta coffee clones and 250 ha of arabusta coffee;
Rehabilitate 14,300 ha of coffee and 4,450 ha of cocoa, by pruning and applying
fertlizer to coffee trees and tng cocoa trees for mirid pest;
-     Improve the quality of 25% of the cocoa produced by inroducing plastic fermentation
bins;
-     Pla  300 ha of coconuts on the edge of valley bottoms;
-     Plant 2,200 ha of bottom-land rice and improve 5,500 ha of upland rice;
-     Improve 3,270 ha of maize, 360 ha of groundnuts and 300 ha of yams.
-     Reorganize SATMACI extension services into four zones and introduce a pitot land-se
planning and crop development project;
-     Create units specializing in cooperative development, monitoring and evaluation and
applied agricultral research;



3
Conduct 3 workshops (run by SATMACI) for bottoa-land rice.
Promote input delivery by SATMACI's Commercial Division;
Set up new BNDA offices at Vavoua and Issia;
-     Finance project evaluation studies by the Agriculture Ministry.
(B) PILOT PROJECT
Setting the ground for an adequate land tenure administration would involve:
-     Taking aerial photographs and develop detailed land-use maps for five areas covering a
total of 220,000 ha: Korhogo, Bfoumi, Daloa, Soubrd and Aboisso (ater replaced by
Abengorou);
-     Sensitizing village authorities and beneficiaries to lan use plannig issues;
-     Developing village-level land rights registers and plans;
4.       ject Resign nd Qrganatin
(A) CENTER-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
4.01         The timing of PACO was opportune: major agricultura crop development paratas had
just been entrusted new mandates to undertake regional development programs in different geogrWhical
zones (SATMACI, CIDT, and CIDV for the central forest, the Savana and the Souther forest zones
respectively). Thus following this underlying philosophy, PACO was designed. Its scope, which exnds
from export cash crops (coffee and cocoa) to food crops (rice, maize, yam, groundns, and cocouts),
and farmers' services (extension, research, cooperatives, and credit), clearly reflected the departure from
the narrow and crop-specific focus to a broader and comprehensive one (para 2.01).
4.02         Project implementation was entrusted to SATMACI's regional office in Daloa (404 km
from its capital city-based headquaers). While this decentralized setup allowed a closer and better
superision of proJect activities, it tmned out to be a source of conflict over resource management. In
retropect this conflict should have been foreseen as a risk and due consideration should have been
devoted to its resoluton during the preparation of PACO (see Project Organigram in Annex 1). Also,
Project implemention was hampered by the fact that the execution of certain components depended on
effective collaboration from other structures (projects or parastatals), not necessarily operaing in the
Center-West region. It turned out too optimistic to assume that such an area-based operation as PACO
would have enough authority to elicit collaboration from other projects or parastatas. Furiermore, in
entmsting the execution of PACO to SATMACI, a parastatal which had exclusively dealt with coffee and
cocoa for cose to a quarter of a century, there was a latent risk that the project would fai short in the
objectives of other (non-coffee/cocoa) components. MIis lingering bias for coffee and cocoa, despite
SATMACI's new stautory mandate for regional development, was not duly recognized and dealt with
as a risk to the diversification objective pursued by PACO. Finally, the assessment of BNDA's fincial
situation and its capacity to meet the increased demand for agricultural loans was optimistic.



4
Use exist   enoWn servic of SATMACI was remrnized ino AMur zos; and a
specaW Plot Zone Extension unit was set up to cany out inDvative action in land use planning and crop
developmen In thr  text zones, with a view to extending positive re;ults to the entire regloti T bi
experimental design was a prudent approac and, if it were not deempbasis.d after the Introduction of
a  J    extenion service In 1985 (PY3), t would have enabied a more accurate (*wh/without)
assessment of the economic impact of various innovations introduced by the Project.
(B) PILOT LAND TENURE PROJECT
4.03         The low-land development experience of PACO demonstrated the imporance of formal
teue security. As prerequisite for a proper land administration, a survey of prevailing land owneship
arrangements (~aditional or modern, formal or informal) as well as land use plans, was to be undertake
By the very natre of rural land issues, in addition to the Mistry of Agriculture (MOA), two other
players were to Intervene: the Ministry of Interior, through its local aminion, to facilite the
sensitization of rur  population; the civil works agency (DCGTx), to actually cary out the technical
excudon of the project During preparation, there was competition for control of the project between
the MOA and DCGTS. lhe conflict oriaed fom the fact that DCGTx at the dm had the momentum
of political support, having been entrusted unusual attributions by a special Presidential ruling, while the
role of the MOA In the adminision of the project was inadequate. Indeed, MOA!s role under the
project was both vague (the Ministry would be responsible for the 'management of the rural domain")
and oictual (it "would rule over all decisions pertaining to amd atribution" -a mmdate that falls more
in the terrain of the Ministry of Interior) or unrealistic (the Miistry of Agriculture was to 'provide the
necesry staff -while DCGTx had a definite comparative advantage in Its compce for technical
execution of the project, let alone the political support). The Ministry finally withdrew from tie project,
compromising prospects for making the land tenure Issue a central part of ftre agriculural development
initives.
5.    hweln plemwphtion
(A) CENTER-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
5.01         The loan becane effective July Ist 1982. Start-up ficed initial difficulties arising from
the unclear division of responsibilities and financial control between project mangment and SATMACI
headquarters, as well as from the late recruitment of key divisional heads.
S.02         After effective start of the Project's implementation. it was adversely affece by several
factors; five of which are descied below.
(1) Ihe Agriculure Minster changed three times during the life of the project, delaying
major project related decisions.
(2) From 1983 unil 1985, the Ptoject still had not identified a suitblb candidate to head
the Division of Technical Operations.
(3) Changes in Governmen policy readig certain crops and programs also hampered
project implementation. Indeed, in 1982, Govenment issued an order to suspend coffee
planting; a decision that led to closing two of the four coffee nurseries in the project ares.
Although Government allowed new planting to resume In 1984, it was too late for the
project to meet its targets; as aresult, only 58% of the planned 9,640 ha were planted.



s
In addition, the program initiated by SODEPALM (the oil palm development parastatal)
to plant cocomnt outside its traditional coastal area was suspended in 1985.
(4) Lack of follow-up in Government agricultural policy for certain crops was also a
major impediment for certain Project components.   For instance, a successl
implementation of the cocoa quality program would have been helped by a pricing
structure reflecting quality differences. Instead the Government kept on the uniform
pricing structure.
(5) After Government reorganized the extension service along T&V lines in 1985 and
deemphasized the phased approach, the cofinancier, CCCE, lost much of its interest in
the project. Fortunately, this remained inconsequential because CCCE did not withhold
its participation, and went along with the agreed actions. Nevertheless, this change cost
at least in terms of adjustment lag and disbturbed the initial experiment of agricultura
extension being conducted in PACO area.
S.03         As a result of the above implementation problems, the project's closing date was extended
from December 1987 to June 1989 in order to accommodate delays in carrying out certain components
and to strengthen areas where the project had made little headway: coffee planting, yams, village-based
land management and feeder roads. Extension of the project was facilitated by two factors that led to a
much lower level of disbursement than planned. Eitrml, the drastic salary cuts enacted by Government
in 1985 reduced the wage component from 60% to 30% of the projec's budget. &ondIy, during the
1983-87 implemention period, a significant dollar appreciation (US$1: CFAF 370, compared to US$1:
CFAF 270 in the appraisal esdmate) rendered local goods and services procured under the Ptoject even
cheaper than anticipated.
(B) PILOT LAND TENURE PROJECT
5.04         Implementation of the pilot project was delayed by five major circumstances, which are
described below.
(1) The disagreement between the MOA and DCGTx (over which of the two Government
entities should house and be enusted the management of the pilot operion) effecvely
hampered the timely start of actvities, with MOA delaying the authorization to release
the necessary field staff at the disposal of the project. The virtal withdrawal of MOA
during the preparation phase meant that project findings were not broadly diffused and
the recommendations made during project supervision were not acted on. Partly becmse
of this halfhearted involvement of MOA, the proposed i sterial mnitoring
committee was not set up until 24 months after Project launch -the project thus remained
the exclusive domain of DCGTx, liaison with other branches of Government remaining
poor.
(2) Due to delays in declaring a loan from the co-financier, CCCE, effective, the Bank
had eventually to amend ts original agreement and fiance 100% of the first two pilot
zones instead of 50% of the five planned pilot zones.
(3) The French contcor for aerial photography, IGN-FR, could not deliver the
necessary background work in a timely fashion -albeit owing partly to persistent cloud
cover.



6
(4) The recruitment of key project staff was slow; In the case of the economist who was
to take charge of monitoring and evaluation and data base management, the position was
never flled, reducing the scope for exploiting the rich data genated by the projec.
(5) The initial reaction of villagers to project activities was rather lukewarm, if not
hostile: they feared that the project would result in their losing ownership of land,
especially where customary rules applied. Similar initial resistance was fek from the
Government side for reasons havming to do with the political sensitivity of land issues.
5.05         Despite these difficult circumstances, the pilot project can generally be called a success:
the Ivorian cartographers and village Interviewers made the best of the available resources and established
an excellent rapport with the villagers; the municipal authorities facilitated diligently the sensitization
campaigns, and with their support, surveillance committees were set up in each region to monitor project
implementation.
5.06         When the Land Tenure Project closed (actually only Bank's Loan 2167-IVC closed, not
the Project which is still on-going with the co-financier) in December 1990, only 43% of the fimds
committed by the Bank and 36% of totl project fimds had been spent, mainly owing to the delay to carry
out work in the forest zones.
6.    Project Results and ImDact
6.01         Oveal Imact. An assessment of the impact of a project that has multiple objectives,
rangmg from agricultural production, to institutional development, natural resources conservazn, and
regional welfare, is not easy. In addition, a full assessment of quantifiable impact of the project is bound
to be tentative and incomplete at this time becuse the major revenue-earning activities of the project,
cocoa and coffee, have a long gestation phase that spans several years beyond project implementadon
period.
(A) CENTER-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
6.02         Impact on the Technologica Environme. Perhaps the most unequivocal contribution
of the project is in terms of awareness, testing, and adoption of new practices. Farmers overwhelmingly
credited their Imowledge and usage of such yield enhancing cultivation methods as weeding/suckering and
phased multiple-em pruning to the project. Farmers adopted these methods and now regard them as
ordmiary husbandry practices to such an extent that, despite Govermment's failure to pay the agreed
pruning bonus, the pl.Wsed pruning of coffee trees was carried out over a wide area. However, this
positive contribution from the project could not be replicated elsewhere in the region because of (i)
continuing conflicts between project management and SATMACI headquarters, and (ii) the reluctance of
Research (IRCC) to validate most innovations introduced by the project, on the ground that these
innovations lack scientific underpinning.
6.03         Impact on Farrn Income. The decline in the official producers' prices for coffee during
the period 1983-1989 (CFAF 300 to CFAF 200) and cocoa (CFAF 300 to CFA 200) adversely affected
farm income. However, the increase in the quantity of food crops (rice and maize), the reduced
production costs, and the adoption of more efficient husbandry methods helped cushion somewhat the
price induced decline in farm income.



7
6.04          gna n stitutional Deel   . Theprojectsuccesfilystmulatedthedevelopment
of farmer cooperatives, owing to the fact that ese associations were frmed on the basis of affinity
rather than on a mere geo-admnistrative criteria. Between 1982 and 1988, the number of farmers'
association GVCs, increased by 20%, membership rising by 36%. Ihe cooperatives served as an
effective vehicle for the delivery of BNDA loans, causing recovery rates to rise from 40% to 90% during
the life of the project. Supply of credit, however, did not grow as envisaged mainly because of BNDA's
liquidity problems and inefficient procedures. lhe liaison between research and agriltural extension
was strengthened, or at least, made more systematic.
6.05         I=a=on Agricultual SerIiyc      ry. The enhancement of agricltural services was,
at best, a qualified success. The Commercial Division of SATMACI coud not deliver inputs and
equipment required by the project given that Government failed to provide counterpart funds. However,
the method of supplier-financed-storage ("Depot-ventes, through project stores) was successful in that it
enabled to increase cash sales of unsubsidized inputs to farmers -although several attempts to replicate
this model, with exclusively private traders in Daloa and Gagnoa, turned out not viable. Although PACO
institutionalized a set up to ensure the delivery of upstream services to farmers, there was little application
of research results at the farm level because the collaboration between the project unit and the research
institute for the Savana region (Institut Des Savanes, IDESSA) was not effective and did not provide
farmers with a useful package for foodcrops.
6.06         Social and Income Distribution Impa.  The project envisaged to compensate for
important differences in factor and resource endowment across ethnic groups co-existng in the project
area. There was, however, a pervasive sendment in project area that PACO was biased in favor of non-
autochthonous farmers, as opposed to the SATMACI which has been viewed traditionally as in favor of
the autochthonous. This sentiment was reinforced especially in area of bottom-land development where
land use rights were uncertain.
6.07         One of the implied objective of the project was to lessen migration of young
autocithonous villagers by enticing them to undertake farming as a profession. Litde headway was made
in this respect: 24 young farmer groups were created but BNDA credit shorta  and intricate land tenure
problems prevented consolidation of this initiative. Apart from isolated cases of young hrmers' groups
in the immediate outskirts of urban cens, most groups did not survive. Where the groups were formed
to provide labor services, members became demotivated, frustrated by the inability to own land.
6.08         Economic Retuns of the Proje. Data made available from SATMACI to assess the ex-
post economic return are still sparsed with some deficiencies (rice yields being constant for seven years,
but they are by and large reliable). The ex-post estmate of the economic rate of return 26.63%,
compared with 28% projected at appraisal of PACO. Detailed assessment of the economic impact of
PACO is included in Table 8 (C2).
(B)    PILOT LAND TENURE PROJECT
6.09         The uldmate impact of the pilot project will be fully assessed when the project
implementation in all five test areas is completed by the end of 1993. Meanwhile judging from the
experience of the two areas realized with Bank financing, the impact of the Pilot Project is clearly
positive.  Its results were quicldy internalized by village populations and local administration in
identifying parcel boundaries, resolving complex land dispute, and planning for efficient land use. The
implicit recognition by Government of traditional land rights is a welcome step in firming tenure security,
thereby contributing to end environment-destructive open-access practices. Maps drawn and land rights
registers compiled will be filed wi:h the MOA but, more importantly, will remain at the disposal of the



8
villages to facilitate local-level planning and conflict resolution. TMe methodology developed for mapping
and for the land rights interviews has proved usefl in the preparation of the CCCE financed agropastoral
project, the Bank financed Forest Sector Project as well as an important land use management project.
6.10         The positive contribution of this pilot operation could be frther maximized and spread
once local capacity is enhanced and adequate measures are taken to fully exploit the rich data base
generated and to ensure that the maps and registers are regularly updated by village authorities.
7.    Proect Sustainabili
(A) CENTER-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
7.01         The socio-economic environment of COte d'Ivoire has deteriorated seriously since the
project closed. This makes it difficult to state whether the lack of continuity of project activities Is due
to unusual exogenous factors or simply to intrinsic sustainability problems. Coffee and cocoa prices fei
drastically and led farmers to invest less time in maintaning their plantations. There has been a decline
in the quality of input delivery, with fertilizer, pesticide, and seedlings in short supply in SATMACI
stores. Also, farmer demand for inputs has fallen following the collapse of BNDA.
7.02         The infrastructure built by the project has been poorly maintined: irrigation works
irstalled in valley bottoms are run down and cultivation of bottom-lands has been abandoned in many
cases. Roads either built (162 kin) or rehabilitated (84 km) are in a poor state; most wells have also
been badly maitained; except for limited cases where villagers have formed grups to finance
maintenance of roads and wells by contracting with private sector or Regional Public Works services.
7.03         When PACO was completed, all of its extension initiatives were fully integrated within
the National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP) activities. However, some of the field staff of PACO
were assigned to other regions and, owing partly to budget constraints, little was done to keep the
momentm and demonstrate sustainability of project activities. Consolidation of the progress made in
the Center-West with PACO and later with NAEP in addressing farmers' services will depend on the
successfiu development of the proposed National Agricultural Services Project currently under
preparation.
(B) PILOT LAND TENURE PROJECT
7.04         Having fulfilled a genuine demand for the carification of land rights, this highly-
innovative initiative has laid the foundation for a broader, nationwide land management project that is
currently under preparation. The sustainability of the participative and pluralist approach of the Pilot
Project to land administration will depend on (i) the capacity of village and municipal authorities for
updating the land rights, maps, and registers, and (ii) the support for this endeavor provided by the
regional directorates of MOA. The follow-up project will reinforce this capacity. The itinis
committee on land tenure that was set up towards the end of the pilot project is now actively involved
in preparing the new nationwide land management iniktive.
8.    Bank Performance: Major Strengths and Weaknesses.
(A) CENTER-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
8.01         The Bank participated actively in identification and preparation of the project, contributing
to a positive change in Government thinking about extension and land management issues. Supervision



9
missions were carried out regularly, twice a year; and contrary to the Borrower's perception, which
probably may have overlooked the fact that this operation spanned over about 10 years, the Bank strived
to preserve continuity in mission staffing. The project benefitted greatly from the fact that it was
supervised by the Abidjan based agricultural staff. There were some shortcomings, however. During
project preparation and appraisal stages, the Bank could have paid more attention to clarifying the division
of tasks and the responsibility for financial control between SATMACI's regional office and its
headquarters. At these stages also, the Bank should have examined BNDA's capacity more rigorously,
and given more thought to the institutional requirements for project sustainability. The delay in project
start-up might have been avoided if there had been an appraisal follow-up mission to clarify and reinforce
the lending conditions.
(B) PILOT LAND TENURE PROJECT
8.02         The project was supervised in a timely and efficient fashion. The Bank played an
effective role in communicating the results of the project to Government and donors, so that the findings
were taken into account by parallel projects (e.g. Forest Sector Project) and new natural resource
management projects that the Bank is initiating in Guinea and Benin.
9.    Bank Performance: Findings and Lessons Leaaned
(A) CENTER-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
9.01         Several of the valuable lessons learned from the project are already reflected in the Bask's
current approach to extension, land management issues, and credit in COte d'Ivoire. The project
pioneered the notion of "contact group" -instead of 'contact farmer' of the prototype T&V extension
system- which was adopted in subsequent agricultural services projects in Cote d'Ivoire and elsewhere
in Africa. In addition, the extension component of the Center-West project was highly successful in
adapting the findings of tree crop research to the peasant milieu, encouraging coffee farmers, for
example, to adopt more thorough pruning. The agronomic research component performed poorly and
teaches that rather than conducting research in their own right, integrated project structures should focus
on adapting the results of independent research agencies through on-farm trials. The project also
demonstrated, through the "depot-vente" formula, that agricultural inputs are more efficiently distributed
where the private sector is involved (notwithstanding the experience of Gagnoa and Daloa -see Para
6.05), not when they are left exclusively to the extension agents as it has been the traditional practice of
SATMACI. In many respects, the initial project's phased approach to improving extension services has
been fully vindicated; the value of pilot projects that start with selected zones and graduafly work to build
confidence and increase farmer participation is now fully appreciated.
9.02         As for credit, the project illustrated what no to do: to rely on a parastatal credit
institution such as BNDA. Subsequently, the emphasis has now shifted away from supply-driven credit
provision (which leads to weak loan recovery) toward an approach which favors financing through farmer
credit cooperatives and commercial banks, where loan allocation is based on a full assessment of the risks
by all parties involved.
(B) PILOT LAND TENURE PROJECT
9.03         The enthusiasm with which villagers eventually participated in this project clearly
demonstrates that there is a strong latent demand for clarification of land rights. The pilot project
demonstrated the value of approaching the land rights issue by piecemeal negotiation at the village level,
rather than through a centrally-imposed, blanket campaign of land titling.



10
10.   Borrower ema=
(A) CENTER-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
10.01        The Borrower participated actively in project preparation and many of the staff concerned
were also involved in implementation. Progress reports were regularly submitted to the Bank. However,
staffing amrangements were in many respects inadequae: the first Technical Director was fired for
incompetence and Government took 18 months to appoint a replacement; the performance of the person
replacing the first Administrative and Financial Director was deemed unsatisfactory by the Project
Manaer. Some of the covenants in the Loan Agreement were not complied with: this was the case for
arrangemnts concering BNDA, the fAnding of SATMACI's Commercial Division and matenance of
infastrucure in the bottom-lands. Although audits were regularly conducted and transmitted to the Bank,
the efficiency and transparency of this exercise was compromised by BNDA's failure to ma_inn a
separate project account.
(B) PILOT LAND TENURE PROJECT
10.02        The central project unit provided an excellent training of project personnel. However,
the monitoring and evaluation expert should have been appointed much sooner during implementation of
this pilot itative in order to draw lessons to strengthen the design and ficilitate preparation of the
follow-up land management project. Following the failure of the French instiute of geography to deliver
aerial photos, the task was handed to its Ivorian counterpart, (IUC1); the latter proved to be filly
competent and delivered quality services. 'Me participation of the Agriculture Ministry in project
supervision was less than optimal. While accounting and audit procedures were satisfactorily observed
by the borrower, reports on the overall progress of the project were not submitted as regularly as
planned.
11. Studies and Consulting Services
(A) CENTER-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
11.01        The Ministry of Agriclture was to commission several studies (with a provision of
CFAF 60 million) on such topics as marketing, cocoa quality improvement, and villageobased
management of bottom-lands. None of these studies were undertaken primarily becase of inadequate
follow up by MOA which, during the project period, witnessed frequent senior staff changes. Also, the
Borrower maintained that the information generated by the project units was of sufficiently good quality
to serve the purpose. Even the stdies planned at appraisal on agricultura policy, which a priori could
not conceivably have been generated by project units, were also not carried out.
(B) PILOT LAND TENURE PROJECT
11.02        lhe legal and sociological studies envisaged at appraisal were successfiully carried out,
using national as well as foreign consultants. However, consultants from the University of C8te d'Ivoire
had some initial difficulty in adapting to the (bighly original) methods used by the project.



Hi
REPUBLIC OF CME D'IVOIRE
PROJECT COMPE1ON REPORT
CENTER WT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJEC
(LOAN 2167-IVC)
PART U: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECI
1.    Main problems encountered by the project
Numerous problems encountered during the implementaion of the Project affected the
quality of its results. These problems are described below.
1.1          Technica Problems
Coffee Nurseries. Ihe implementation of coffee rehabilitation program was hindered by
the lack of seedlings resulting from the closure of 50% of coffee nurseries, following the Government's
decision to curb extensification of the coffee orchard and the lack of management autonomy for the
nurseries associated with the project.
Cocomt Ts. SODEPALM, the parastatal for the development of palm tree plantations
iitiated a program to plant cocunut trees beyond their traditional coastal growing areas; following this
initiative it was decided to introduce coconut trees into project areas not suitable for coffee and cocoa.
This program was discontinued by the parastatal, following the reduction in the price of copra and the
difficulties in obtaining planting materil from the oilseed research institute, IRHO.
Arabus a. This program, consisting of the creation of plantation clusters, was cut short
after three blocks of 50 ha each were created in the test zones of Issia and Guiberoua. The program
experienced technical problems with regard to depulping the coffee beans, and difficulties in financing
physical installations on the blocks created in the test zones.
Motorized Culato. The agricultural motorization center, CIMA has not been able
to propose a motorized cultivator suitable for the bottomlands.
Clearing Eqipm . The diffusion of this farm implement was well launched but it was
hindered by difficulties in obtaining spare parts.
PANOLIN Tractor. The problem of transporting goods from the fields to the camp site
was not satisfactorily resolved beeause the tractor was ill-adapted.
I/ The full report from the Borrower is attached as Amex 4. The foLaLowing dwells on the problems encountered
during Project implementation, the results of project in terms of physical output, and the assessment of
Exterral Financiers' performance.



12
.2ene relatd to the anu ldo of Aa tureani
The Introduction of the Training and Visit sytem Inefered with the Projec'
methodology.
The training reeived by Sublect Matter SpecisAUs ws Inadequate, thezfore, ther
participation to the project was limited.
The lack of Technical Direcion made it difficult to coordinate technical activities and
to spread information about the statis of the project.
3            PebiM retated to ovez l Projectnt
A s an aiigmn    which etailed an abrupt 50% reduction, had a damaging impact on
project results, parficularly between 1985 and 1986.
Aging of agdcultural population, coumponded by the lack of guaranteed pension and
fam rental income, naurally led to least educated and least actve fm     remaining on
the farm.
Administrative and liquidity problems faced by the agricultural credit bank, IDA  led
managers to harden credit conditions with the objecdve to Improve debt recovery.
Stricidy-business like management of credi with sanctions affecting the whole grow
penaized the 'good- individual farmers.
Aerial Ehanhs: Many arising difficulties did not ailow tis advity to be pursued
under the envisaged structres.
Cooperativ development agents from the Farmers Associaons and Coopeative Diviio
of MOA, D.=J  seconded to PACO found difficulties adjusig to project's principles.
This situation seriously hampered the project, and policies regag cooperation were
not implemented.
2.        e
Irining. The project created an adatable, workable of farmer' servicing, linindg
technical and logistical aspects. The system is charaterized by the following:
Extesion of technical subject ukg io account national objectives and frming
costrais exposed by an overal examination of basic taining.
Rational organization of extension services making it possible to integrate training of field
etension agents on a permanent basis.
In-depth knowledge of the envoment, its constrain  and potential. The project area
was in fact subdivided into 24 UAPs (Unit6 d'appui I la production), each one was
managed by a Supevisor, 7 - 10 field etension agents were responsble for technical
aspects, and 2 Advisors specialized in farm group development and management (CGG)
for the logistical aspects of the ProjecL



13
Technical Aspect
hIantefnnoe of the Plantation (Coffee)
-     Farmers realized that their produce could be improved through field cling
(weeding and suckring) and pruning of coffee trees.
Pest Control Treatment (Cocoa). The introduction of rural credit enabled many
farmers to treat their plantations
-     Rainfed Rice and Maize Seedlings. Many firmers replaced the broadcast seeding
method by the seed dreeling method which has more advanes, particuarly
with regard to improving the density and reducing the quantity of seeds used per
hectare.
-     Florido Yam Seeds. They were adopted and disbuted over the whole project
area.
-     Organaon of GVCs (Oounements v        _llagos cOdrafs . Farmers found it
necessary to form a dynamic structure, i.e., the (Unions Sectorielles), which have
now been established in the entire PACO set-up.
Developments lhe project was responsible for the development or rehabilitation of
bottomland or reconditioned rice, wells and tracks which need maintence.
3.    Relationship between the Borrower and External Financiers
3.1          BoTrower's Perforance   he following facts affected project performance:
the Project underwent several changes with respect to the governing ministry;
economic difficulties and their effect on the availability of funds;
-     long procedures followed, particularly concerning procurement.
3.1.1 During Project implementation, the structure responsible for the project management was
governed by ree different ministries successively; the Ministry of Agriculture, Water
and Forests (1982-1983), the Ministry of Rural Development (1984-1987) and the
Ministry of Agriculture (1987). One of the main results of these changes was that funds
earmarked to finance studies supporting the project were not appropriately used by the
Ministry. There was a long delay in approvirg procurement for tracks (approval was
given in 1985 instead of 1983).
3.1.2 The project was carried out during a period of serious economic recession. As a result,
the project was often forced to seek credit advances from banks to avoid long periods of
fiancial disruption in the treasury, although obtaining funds from other cofinciers,
namely the IBRD, would normally have been difficult following a withdrawal application.
3.1.3  Aministrative Procedures. The length of approval for procurement for the tracks
consequently reduced the amount, in view of the availability of fimds. Ihe Project



14
encountered difficulty in identifying expatiate specialists, a Technical Director (at the
beginning of the Project) and a Financial Director (during the Project).
3.2          The Bank's Performance. Sujtsrvision was conducted twice a year and was ffective in
enhancing the traditional agricutural extension system the  being  implemented by
SATMACI and shaping it along the lines of the Tranng and Visit system. Also, the
supervision missions were instrnumental in taking the sound decision to bring the Coffee
Nurseries and the Input Supply Warehouses, each set of activities managed by a separate
division of SATMACI, under the unique management of the Project unit.
The Bank must also be commended for having procesed dUigeny disbursement
requests, especially during cridal periods of shortage of counterpart financing.
However, there are two areas where Bank perfonnance was inadequate. These relate to
the frequent changes in Project Task Manager at the Bank and the fact that the Bank did
not devote attenion to the documents geneated by other parties, the cofinancier and the
Borrower. The combination of both fas led the Bank to ignore the feasibility study
preaed by the Borrower and lose complete sight of the original experimental feature of
the project, *Test-Villages" operations. This was unforunate and led the Borrower to
prepare an explicit report on the cost effectiveness of agricultura  esion under PACO
fiom 1983 to 1987. It is recommended that this report be read (see Annex 2).
It is the view of the Borrower that frequent changes of Project Task Managers at the
Bank and of line ministry in C8te d'Ivoire certainly affected the premature closing of
project activities. In effect, untl a status report written by SEDES in 1988, which was
rejected by the Ivorian counterpart, no Bank supervision report had flagged any fatal
implementtion problem threatening the Project.
3.3          Relationshig between the Borrower and the CCCE.
3.3.1. AvailabilIty of Funds. The Borrower has accurately followed the application of the
original provision, therefore, on this basis, very few expenses have been rejected by the
co-financiers.
The economic dowurn that the Borrower has been facing provoked some problems
between the two parties, which caused the cancellation of disbursements from CCCE,
and, as mentioned earlier in this Report, the Project's financial difficulties.
3.3.2.  pect Supevso. Even though CCCE was not required to follow the IBRD's rule of
carrying out two missions a year, CCCE did participate in coordination with the Bank
in almost all supervision missions. The condusions mentioned above ae also valid here.
3.3.3. Project Evaluation - It seems that CCCE did lt willingly Agree to certain selectons.
Due to the fi that the taff in charge of the Project In the Paris office has almost always
been 1he same, Project Management and CCCE staff, even though there was regular
turnover of field supervising staff often shared the same opinion.
It seems that the CCCE was not vey happy to see the T&V system replace the
tradtionalr method; should we therefore:
- keep the traditional method as a reference, or adopt the T&V system.



is
Despite this constrain, which only appeared in 1987, and afer the visi of the Project
Manager from the Paris office, all appeared well, and did not let think that the Project's actvities wae
going to be canceUed.
4.    Overall EidMSAmision
Financial supervision was performed by two successive auditors who reviewed the entire
Project from 1983 to 1989. The audits did not show any real problems in financial managemnt.



16
REPUBLIC OF COTE DYOR
PRCr CQMIPLETIO RtEPO
CENTER NMS A=SUlLTURAL DBEV§LLGP= PROE
(LOAN 2167-IVC)
PART m. STAxTIML INORMAON
1.               Related lank LoanslCredits
tABLE I          tBRD LOAN RELEVANT TO tHE PROJECT
Lo.nICrdit       Purpose                             Year of          Status            Cemuents
Title                                                Approvat
Loan 686         To help finance                     1971             Completed
cocoa t          Government new Hybrid                                 In 1976
cocoa Planting Program.                                                The"e two ProJects
Covered part of Center-                                                sufered froam a
West Region                                                            single crop approach and
concentration on physicat
tarets, intffective
Loan 1069-IVC    Bank-supported nev hybrid           January           Completed        extension services and
Cocoa 1I         Cocoa planting Project              1975              in December      a  lack of built-in N&E
covering part of the                                 1981              system
Center-West Resion
Loan 1077-IVC    To help finance crop               January            Coapleted         luplweentation
Cotton areas     diversification                     1975              in March         done welt
Rurat            and smaltholder                                       1982
Development      production
Project
Loan 1827-lVC    To develop one of the               NOY               Completed        Satisfactorily faplennted.
North-East       most isolated and                   1980              In June          But achievmefnt of A,^sSical
Savamah          poorest Region of                                     1988             objectives did not lead to
Rural            Cote d'ivoire                                                          the identification of a
Development                                                                             strategy bed on food crops
Project



17
2.             Prolect Timetable
jj5jJJ (a):   PROJECT TINETASLE
Date                  oSate
Out                    D2faPA-MM
Jim~~~~~~ hvlse                                                       D    tL
IdentIffeation                                                               01/03/79- W01079
PreparatIon                                           1979 - 1981
Project Brief (EPS)            04/80                  10/16/79. 03.20/80     03:25/81
Appraisal Nisaian              10160                  06/80/, 10/80, 05/81    05/04/81
Ln/Cc Naetlatiom               12/81                  11f15/81               01/1882 - 01/W82
Board Approtal                                        06/01/82
La/Cr Sigvature                U.S.                                          09/27/8
Ln/Cr Effectivenes             12/28/82               03/28/8                04/27/2
La/Cr ttosing                 06/30/8                 06/30/89                2/31/90
La/Cr Corpletion               12/31/87               12/31/88               06/30/90



18
TABLE 2 .bL ;    PROJECT CYCLE ELAPSED TIME
Davs Elased
Time Snan                         Planned         Revised          Elial            Actual  Base
EPS to Appraisal                  04/80            10/79, 03/80    10/16/79             60     600
Mission in Field                  10/80            06/08. 10/80    05/04/81
Appraisal. Mission                09/04/81                          05/04/81            t9      28
in Field to return                                                 05/23/81
Return Appraisal                                                   05/23181            108      94
Mission to YC                                                       09/08/81
YC to Distribution                11/30/86                         09/08/81             93      42
of Docs to LC                                                       12/10/81
Doc to LC to                      12/81            11/15/81         12/10/81            39      28
start Negotiations                                                 01/18/82
Start Negotiations                                                 01/18182            107      42
to Final Agreement                                                 05/05/82
Finat Agreement to                03/82                            05/05/82             27      35
Board Presentation                                                  06/01/82
Sub-Total EPS tog3D                                                                   142      861
Board Presentation to             12/28/82         03/28/83        06/01/82
Effectiveness                                                      04/06/83            309      90
Effectiveness to                  04/06/83         06130/89         12/31/90
Closing                           06/30/88                                          L28      1.922
Total EPS to Closing                                                                Am       am
Key to Abbreviations:
00      Board
in      Executive Project Sumary
LC      Loan Committee
YC      Yellow Cover



19
3.              Loan Difteg~t
IABLE 3         ESTIPATIONED AND ACTUAL LOAN DISBURENEMTS
DIsbursements (in USM million)
Loan 2176-IVC
Band Fiscal Year         Estimated       Actual           Actual as X      Actual as X of
and Quarter              Cumulative      Cumtative        ed' EstirM3te    Loan Amount
1983    1                        0                0                0               0
2                        0               0                0                0
3                        1,700           0                0                0
4                        2,700            1,696           63               13
1984    1                        3,300            1,727           52               13
2                        3,800            1,742           46               13
3                        4,300            1,742           41               13
4                        4,800            2,360           49               18
1985    1                        5.300            2,429            46              19
2                        5,800           2,535            44               20
3                        6,600            2,600           39               20
4                        7,400            2,788           38               21
1986    1                        8,050            4,415           55               34
2                        8,700           5,229            60               40
3                        9,250            5,229           57               40
4                        9,800           5,301            54               41
1987    1                        10.350           5,424           52               42
2                        10.900          5,609            S1               43
3                        11,450          6,764            59               52
4                        12.000          6,764            S6               52
1988    1                        12,400           6,875           55               53
2                        12-600          7,644            61               59
3                        12t800           7,960           62               61
4                        13,000          8,405            65               65
1989    1                        13,000           9,166            71              71
2                        13,000          9,495            73               73
3                        13.000          9,495            73               73
4                        13,000          9,697            75               75
1990    1                        13,000           9,687            75              75
2                        13,000          9,927            76               76
3                        13,000           10,413          80               80
4                        13,000           10,459          80               80
1991    1                        13,000           10,459          80               80
2                        13,000           10,459          80              8s
The Center-West Project closed Jure 1989 except for the Land Tomenu Operation uhicb closed December
1990.
Fiscal Year: July 1 - Jure 30
Last Disbursement: 05/14/91. However, the last Application No. 104 for CFAF 1,279,998 received on
January 23, 1992 was applted towards the recovery of the Special Account.  As of 02/28/92, the
undisbursed balance was S394,900 and amount canceled fs $2,541,151.76.



20
4.               Project inl,tementation
BLE 4 (a):       FINANCIAL IMPLEMENTATION.  19821-1986/87 (1.000 fCFA)
COMPONENTS                         APPRAISAL          ACTUAL          VARIATIONS            RATE
A. Project t4anagement Unit         749.925         1.14Z.183        (392.258)           152.31%
R. Extension Services             3.084.900        2.173.124          911.776             70.44X
C. Cooperative Development Unit  1.026.500           702.591         323.909              68.45%
D. Pilot Zone Extension Unit        478.100           944.208        (466.108)           197.49%
E. Nonitoring and Evatuation Unit 518.015            338.323          179.692             65.31%
F. Ionitoring and Evatuationl       247.030          219.410          27.620             88.82%
Test zones
G. Dru Agronomic Section            275.872          267.049            8.823             96.80%
H. Training Unit                    326.090          375.224          (49.134)           115.07%
i. Expansion of BUDA offices        14.840                 0          144.840             0.00%
J. Workshops                         41.373                 0          41.375              0.00%
K. Studies                           60.000                 0          60.000              0.00%
L. Agriculturat Infrastructure      917.816          750.669          167.147            81.79%
M. Agricultural Inputs            2.567.293          449.368        2.117.925             17.50%
M. Propagation Centers                N/E             122.015        (122.015)
0. Nechanization/CIMD                 U/E              33.310         (33.310)
Base Costs                       10.437.756        7.517.474        2.920.282             72.02%
Physical Contingencies              431.192                 0         431.192              0.00%
Price Contingencies               4.007.899                 0       4.007.899              0.00%
Totat Cost              14.876.847         7.517.474       7.359.373             50.53X
V/E: Not Estimated



21
TABLE 4 (Lb:    FINANCIAL IMPLEMENTATION:  1982 - 1987 (USSI.000)
COWPONEMTS                       APPRAISAL           ACTUAL        VARIATIONS            RATE
A. Project Management Unit           2.778            3.117            (340)          151.22X
S. Extension Services               11.426            5.671           5.7m             49.63X
C. Cooperative Development Unit      3.802            1.888           1.914            49.66X
D. Pilot Zone Extension Unit         1.771            2.654            (883)          149.88B
E. Monitoring and Evaluation Unit   1.919               905           1.014            47.17X
F- Nonitoring and Evaluation/          915              587             328            64.161
Test zones
G. Dru Agronomic Section             1.022              700             322            68.51X
H. Training Unit                     1.208              959             249            79.40X
1. Expansion of BNDA offices           536                0             536             0.00O
J. Workshops                           153                0             153             0.00O
K. Studies                             222                0             222             0.00O
L. Agricultural Infrastructure       3.399            2.033           1.366            59.81X
N. Agricultural Inputs               9.508            1.175           8.333            12.36X
N. Propagation Centers                   0              315            (315)              -
0. Mechanization/CIMD                    0              111            (111)
Base Costs                          38.658           20.115          18.543            52.03X
Physical Contingencies               1.597                0           1.597             0.001
Price Contingencies                 14.844                0          14.844             0.00O
Total Cost                 55.099           20.115          34.984            36.511
Comments:
Initially scheduled on 5 years (1983-1987), the project completion was postponed to June 1989, due to
substantial savings resulting of delays implementation of investments during the early parts of the project,
the appreciation of the USS against the CFA Francs over 1983-1987 inplementation period.   The rate of
disbursement of funds had been less than forecast (in FCFA). In addition, the compounding effect of the high
US dollar rate of exchange has contributed to further lower the drawn on the US Dollar. As of December 1987,
only 36.511 of the project BIRD funds have been drawn down.



22
5.              Prolect Costs and Financin.
TABLE 5 (a)
ESTIMATED                                       ACTUAL COSTS
CATEGORIES          Total Cost  Taxes   Foreign Totat              Local Cost   Taxes   Foreign Total
Taxes Free          Costs   Costs              Texes Free           Costs   Costs
1. SATNACI
Project Manhgaent Unit       1,1       0,5      1,2     2.8                  1,3        0,6      1,2       3,1
Ext Services                 7,7       1,9      1,8    11,4                  3.8        1.0     0,9       5,7
Ext Services in Test Zones    1,0      0.3      0,5     1.8                  1.5       05      0,7       2,7
Cooperative Development Unit  1.9      0,7      1.2     3.8                  0,9        0,4     0,6       1.9
NiE Unit                     1.3       0,3      0.3     1.9                  0.6        0,2     0,1        0,9
Dvpt & Res Unit/Agro Eco Sect 0,3      0.2      0.4     0,9                  0.2        0.1     0,2       0,6
DRU Agronomic Section        0.5       0.2      0,3     1.0                  0,4        0.1     0.2       0.7
Training Unit                0,5       0.2      0,5     1,2                  0,4        0,2     0.4        1.0
Workshops                    0.2        -               0.2                  0.0        0.0     0,0       0,0
Agricultural Infrastructure
* Test Zones         0.4       0.2      1,0     1,6                  0.6        0.3     1.1       2.0
* Out of Test Zones  0,3       0,3      1.2     1,8                  0,0        0.0     0.0       0,1
Agricultural Inputs
- Test Zones         0.5       0,2      0,7     1,4                  0.1        0,1     0,2       0,3
- Out of Test Zones  2,4       1.3      4,4     8.1                  0.2        0.1    OS        08
Propagation Centers          0.0       0,0      0.0     0.0                  0.3        0.0     0.0       0,3
Nechanization/ClND           0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0                  0,1        0,0     0.0        0,1
TOTAL SATMACI               18,1       6,3     13,5    37,9                 10,5        3.4     6.2      20,1
2. WA
Offices Expansion            0,4       0,1       -      0,5                  0.0        0,0     0.0        0.0
3. NIXIACGI
Studies/Consult. services    0.0       0.0      0.2     0,2                  0,0        0,0     0,0       0.0
BASE COSTS                  18,5       6,4     13,7    38,6                 10,5        3,4     6,2      20,1
Physical Contingencies       0,4       0,3      0,9     1,6
Price Contingencies          9,1       1,8      4,0    14,9
TOTAL COSTS                 28,0       8.5     18,6    55,1                 10,5        3,4     6,2      20,1
COMNTS ON PROJECT COSTS
Projects actual costs (in 1987) were substantiflty lower than anticipated at approval due to (a) delays in
irplenentation at the begiming of the project, (b) a lower rate of drie down of funds by the project, end {c) the
compounding effect of the high US dollar rate of exchange.



23
TABLE. 5 tb):           PROJECT COST/CATEGORY (FCFA 1.000)
CATEORlIES   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85  1985/86   1986/8T   1987/88   1988/89   CUm 103089
CIVIL WORKS           54   278,160    82.233  450,516    45,924   190,351    12,978      1,047,238
VEHICLES & EQUIP 234,365    49.204    55,143  119,068   123,279    97,424      2,392       678,483
SALARIES         847,752   655,069   472,595  4s7,80s   468.920   788,682   646,639      3,700,823
TECHNICAL ASST   201,715   150,524   160,468  126,756   202,939   218.315   162,165      1,060,717
CONSULTANTS       27,388   20,858    17.053    8,466    33,310    53,206    39,162         160,281
OPERATING COST   321,341   257,212   363.363  405,542   421,084   335,042   154,216      2,103,584
INPUTS            81,001    90,994   107,557  112,825    56,991         0          0       449,368
TOTAL 0ST  1,713,616 1,502,021 1,258,4121,690,978 1,352,447 1,683,020 1,017,552    10,218.046
EVOLUTION OF
EXCHANGE RATE     381.07   436.96    449.26    346.3    300.54    297.85    319.01
CSUS/F.CFA)
TABLE 5 b)(coant.):     PROJECT COST/CATEGORY (USS 1.000)
CATEGORIES    1982/83   1983/84   1984/85  1965/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   CU 10/3089
CIVIL VORKS          0.1    636.6      183.0  1,300.9      152.8    639.1       40.7       2,953.1
VEHICLES & EQUIP   615.0    112.6      122.7    343.8    410.2    327.1          7.5       1,324.0
SALARIES         2,224.7   1,49.2   1,051.9  1,350.9   1,560.3   2,647.9   2,027.0        12,361.8
TECHNICAL ASST     529.3    344.5      357.2    366.0      675.2     733.0     508.3       3,513.6
CONSULTANTS         71.9      47.7      38.0     24.4      110.8     178.6     122.8         522.4
OPERATING COST     843.3    588.6      808.8  1,171.1   1,401.1   1,124.9    483.4         5,577.9
INPUTS             212.6    208.2      239.4    325.8      189.6      0.0        0.0         963.1
TOTAL COST   4,496.9  3,437.4   2,801.1  4,883.0   4,500.1   5,650.6   3,189.7        28,958.7



TABLE6          PROJECT fINAUCING
M- 5al-Ft         (CFAF 1.000)
CATEGORIES                  CUM. 1982-1967                         1988                           1989                             TOTAL
BIRD        CCCE         BSIE       BIRD      CCCE       BSIE      BIRD       CCCE       BSIE    BIRD         CCCE        BSIE
CIVIL WORKS               430.124      136.822     291.195     95.175    30.742     64.434      6.396     2.006    4.515    531.695      169.630    360.144
VEHICLES                        0      213.098    247.847           0    35.190     40.928          0         0         0           0    248.288    288.775
SALARIES                1.442.881    1.806.695   1.415.795    394.341   379.445    349.938    277.285   274.778    24U.792  2.114.507 2.460.916  2.014.525
OPERAttOKAL
COSTS
PICTURES AERIAL                                    0           0         0               0          0         0          0          0          0           0
PHOTOGRAPHY
EGUtPNENT                  91.466        3.690      44.774     14.913       690      5.701          0         0      2.392    106.379      4.680      52.867
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE       91.466       85.201     204.338    109.157    32.810     76.347    78.571    23.931      59.663    279.194    141.942    340.348
CONSULTANTS                22.863        7.240       8.002    31.924    10.109      11.173    22.963      7.812      8.367     77.770     25.161      27.542
TOTAL                   2,078.80     2,252.75    2,211.95   2,633.51  3,166.30  2,536.52  2,374.22  2,297.59   2,312.73   3,109.55  3,050.6t    3,084.20



112                  'a           s          t            8 1l
i.*In         i91I
_ Iii         



26
TABLE 8 (A:    DIRECT BENEFIT OF PROJECT
Indic r                                   imAraisal Esti ate                                 £Es e actual
1.  Average farm size                           6,43 ha                                          10.86 ha
of which:  coffee                               2,4  ha                                           3,5  ha
cocoa                               2,3  ha                                           3,2  ha
rainfed rice                        1,0 ha                                            1,07 ha
bottomland rice                     0,25 ha                                           0.86 ha
yaws                                0,28 ha                                           0,28 ha
maize                               0,20 ha                                           1.95 he
2. Production costs. CFAF                       64.000                                            48J.210
3. Emplayed peopte                              3,5                                               S5.
4. Net Return CFAF                             421.000                                           1.SOO.000
5. Net Return per capita                       120.000                                             272.000
Comwents:
The senefit attributed to the Project due to the increase of yields, free delivery of seeds and
fertilizer on food crops, and expansion of the average farm size, is the incremental Rvenue with respect to
1982 level.
The benefit period extends from 1982 to 1987 due to changes of general agricultural conditions since
1988 (decrease of coffee and cocoa price, unavailability of seeds and fertilizer, Satmaic and BND financial
shortfali).
The present situation is somewhat different. Average farm size has been reduced because of (a) farmers
discouragement and desertion of plots resulting from prices decrease; (b) shortfall in tabor and credit
delivery.
B.:     FINWACIAL IMPACT
The Internal Financial Rate of Return was calculated over a 14 year period and inctudes as outflows all
Satmci direct costs; operating costs at the end of the Project are based on local salaries and iurut costs
supported by the Project. Additional value of outputs were calculated with present local mrket price for
coffee, cocoa and foodcrop.
FRR     21,55X
a1:     ECOOMIC IMPACT
Appraisal tctuel
Estimate                          Eati ait
ERR                                                   28X                              26.63X
Uhderltinm AImtions
The Benefit period extends from 1987 to 2016
Costs have been expressed in current terms until 1989, thereafter in constant 1989 prices.
Incremental maize and rice production are valued at their market prices, coffee and cooae were computed at
border price.
Standard conversion factor (scf): 0,83.



27
1.61    t         fl§:t    |
t £|   @  X  |2  :t g |t0 
i  f            --I1t1-!
I~1 3E   ;u}    !    0i  '1  I
1}    I {  i-#-t;i  10  e    i    
R  ~ ~I I1l         111§     g l



05~~ 
ii                               ~~~~~~~~i
I 06   4DJI 
Ii~    I                    Ifi  @         X            
-.                -        a                   ;§£5l
-        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q
5        *-  0- fiw ---             i                   -------------
CS~~~~~~~ l                                                     Si Rl t    }  8E Eo; l   l sI
I~ ~ ~ ~~~;                          ..,  'Ul!1  ! °     }: ;   tt   P!B
J1;| t         ..            '6  de,    Ig 8                             #9 @ . ;-3' 
i~~~~                                    -- .                         y .' ie       7.'17!    §11i   xi   i1'



29
1Xt1            .S      it I
IIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
I ~I    '                     ..   ° i,
Iii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I 1   I   sW|         pX   
4~~~~~~~3    I
X                      -s  -     as § § 1t E | ! 0
--- -- ---   -------      -  -



10.              Land Tenure Pllot Oneration
TALE lO:         CONPLIAIICE WITH LEGAL COVEIUA11s
Originol         Revised
greemt           sectl«           Statw              be .              te Dhgescriotion of Coveiants                                                        C_ts
Loan             2.02 (c)         Coaplied                          06/02/89         - Ooverreent shall open a specaft eccowit in a bank        The  an  S abn  has deposited
wIth (cm)                                          acceptabte ad on tems ond conditions satisfectory to    initiat tmunt of US$MO.000
the world Sank.                                            the apecial acait cn 00/31/8.
- Payment out of the speclal accont shall be sf
to pay reasoable costs of goods and srvices re*ired
to carry out the project and in accordane with
provislon defined.
2.02 td)         CV                                                 Deposit into  nd payments out of the speil aecom
shell be made In accordance uith the agremnt of the
project.
2.20 Co)        lot full y        July 1989        February 90       overnment shell open and mIntain separate ecounts for
the project aIch shatl reftect all expenditures an account
of ihich withdroawas are requested from the loan occomt,
on the basis of SOEs, ad retain antil at least one year
after the ceesing dote alt records, evidencing the
expnditures an account of  ich withdrols are
requested frce the loan accont.
The project shall have Its accomet ond finnloil            Project bptemntatln startet w
statement and Its record supported tOes audited each       only Inthe ltote 1989. Auditor  °
fiscal year in accordance with appropriate auditifg        has been   teeted and Audit
principles consistentty apptlied by independent auditors   Reports for 1989 and 1990 ere
acceptable to the Sank.                                    expected for Februwry 199
The project shll( furnish to the Bank not later than
6 months of fts ffnancial statement as so audited (b)
reports of such audit by said auditors including separate
opinion by said auditors on the separato eccoent,  nd other
fnformatfon concerning fts wccntfo financlat statement
records ard aapenditures, as well as the audit there of.
2.03             cN                                VA               Goods and works to be financed out of the proceed of the
loan, shall be procured under contracts oawrded In
accordance with procedures consistent with Sank's
principles nd procedures.
2.04                              Jure 30. 90      Dec 31, 90       The closing date shall be December 1990 as uch later       1heEgothmerotitfed Uebxomr
date as the Bank shatl estabifsh.  The Sank shell          of lon closing as of
proaptly notify the borrower of such later date.           Decetber 31. 1990.
3.01 (b)                                                            The borrouwr sholl eploy consultants udose selection,    The project mneger to prpre
qualification, experiencend conditions of eaptoyment    OR and studies an project on
shall be satisfactory to the Sank In accordance with       existin tanW rfohts we recruit
its principles ond procedures.                             consulttnts.
3.01 (d)         Cy               April 90                          The borrower shall promptly upon their prepratfon          WrbldSankbharecehfed denonts
furnish to the Sank copies of t  docaents prepared         prepared for swvey t   trainire
by such consultants including reports, draft, work         esasonP.
schedule and estimates of costs.



31
t1.             Use of ank Resources
XAIL1J. (a):   STAFF INPUTS
tage
fl p    itegt         wt2e LtaPe         R       evl
(1982 Average)
- Through ApWeIst       32.0                                             P Projects
Program
- ApprGsat through      40.0                               -             Projects
Board ApproI                                                           Progra
Averes
- Board Approval        12.0                             16.9            Projects 16.6
through Effectovenes                                                   Program
- Supervision           63.0                             87.1            As of 11/91



JULE 11 J ±              MIlSSION
uiber  bays                       Performance
Staoe of                          of       In      Specializatlon  Roting
eCgolat CSc.    MonthYear         peroans  tletd   Represented     status b          Tvces of Probless c
Through          Jan 29-Feb 4,   2         6       ECI              N/A              Flaid identification mission In coordination with Ninfetry of Arieuttum
Fppralul         197                               Osde,                             CBETPA, SAhCI, SNEPAIX) and CCt tepresentetfve.
de llatharol
Nov 14-16,       1        3       de Matharel      N/A              Ffret stage preparation carrfed out by a BETPA-CCCE cewnultant tow.
1979                                                                Marketing  and  credit  aspects  as wett  as  project design have  reviewd
unistisfactorily.
Dec 10-15        I        5       de Matharet      U/A              Review of technical aspects of cocoa and coffee probJctian and prepare
1979                                                                development proposals for both crops wuder the project.
Jul 8-18         1       10      AGECI             N/A              Revisien of BETPA preparation report I,molving inclusfon of ongoing or
1980                             Redfern                            nem SAThACI programs In the project area Into the project cenept wuder a un.if led
manaement structure; reform  for ag. credit; nd policy for rite eaifdfes,
marketing nd production.
Appraisl         Oct 20-Nov       3                AGECU.           I/A              Praeppralsal misslon (mank, CCCE awd FM0).
through          14, 960                  21       Refeem
14      Pgac
4    *Oai                                                                                                                      "
feb 21-24,       1        1       AGO              */A              Start-up activities and effective condition concerming M10A.
1983                             Mackiln
Supervision      Rov . r,         2         5      ECJ, RE          2                Start-up activities.  The establifs_nt  of accounting syste behimnd sohdodle.
1983                              Osel* eah                         Effectiveness originallt planned for .2r2A882 postponed to 03//20/  due to delay
In formaifzing project execution and financing agreements beteen Govt and the
two executing agencies (SAtMACI and IWDA, respectively,  coadition of
effectiveness and disbursement).
Supervision      Apr 12-21        2        tO      ECK, RE, *03     2                Lack of dialogue between Project Managment and SATMACt NO persenant.
1963                              Deal. Bah.                        Procurement behind schedule.
Mackiln
Supervision      Oct 10-28        2        8       RE, AGR          2                As above as wett absence of Technicat Director  nd poor performanse  of tnnd
1983                             Baob, Macktn                       development and research officers. Inedeqyate nnd late farm fnput supply doe to
tack of pre-finamcing capacity at the Direction Cmerelae, srd (b) slow MA0*
processing of farmer credit dossiers ond a lack of liquidity.
Supetvision      Mar 19-Apr 6,   2         7       RE. FA           2                The new coffee planting progr_, Input suppy end future orgqnl2tlon of
1964                              lh, Vigthwick                    WIUM, OR, and SATNACI. Ninor dlursement problems.



IMLLIL.11 (fi Cont.)t           MISSIOSS
hunber Days                     Performance
Stage of                        of      in      specsltizatlon  Rating
Proieet Cytcl    Nonthftear     p9teEm  LFlld     n esesnited 1a  Status.b.     Tynes of Probems c/
Superviston     Dec 9-13,       1       S       RE              2               Slow disbursements due to eudwersome procedures, deltys In contractin rood works
1985                            Oak                             ani In sthmission of bottoulantd VA.
supervftisn     Jul 2-11.       1       9       RE              I               Lag in new coffee extension due to shorte  of plenting material. Looing probtem
1986                            Bab                             with problems with lWpending departure of Fin Dir and other accotting staff:
Shortage of credit by M"A because of lfquidity problems.
Supervision     Jan 26-30,      2       5       SFA,ECN         I               Shortage of credit due to  WDA procedures and liqufdity probtems; lack of
198,                           WUhyte, Ameur                    liaison between research instftutes and project/farmers; delay In processing
accounts entailitg long lag in disbursements; recovery of Specit A/C not yet
begu.
Supervision     Aug 10-14,      2       S       SfA, TS         I               Asebove. Asoo needtoextendprojectclosingfron06/3089tofinancothepilot
1987                           Whyte` Cray                      land use plamfino ({uent dd Apr 20, 1989) over 18 mnthls  period.
Sqpervision     Feb 27-War 2.           4       ECU             2               DelayinCa)aerialphotographyduetobadweather, tb)ensittiing edenistrative
1990                            Williams                        authorities andvillagers, (c) selecting surveysaents; rsufficlent programing
of operations; absence of fult-tim project coordinator, and Ina ate financlat
m*ngemnt.                                                                        (
Supervision     Nov 26-29       4       4       ECU, ECU, ECa    2              Delays in (a) coapleting aerial photography of the last three zones; (b) recrultment
1990                            Chausse,                        of project Economist and Cartographic System Analyst; e) lnadeqeto coordinatf an
Willfam,                        between the Project operation. and other ongoing programs.
Guerin
Sopervfsasn     Jun 25-28,      1       4       ECI             2               Loan closed 12191. Delays In (a) coopteting aerial photography of the last three
1991                           wIiliefm                         zones; (b) recruitment of project Ecomist and Cartographic Systems Analyst; Cc)
inadequate coordination beten project magemnt and cofinanecera; wid
insufficient programing of operations entailing lag In disbursement.
A/      Key to Specialtiation: AFR * Aronomst, ECU a Economist, SFA * Senior financalt Analyst, RE * Rural Engineer, TS x Tree Crop Specialist.
hi      Key to Statuss  1 * Project free or minor problte; 2 a Moderate problems; 3 e Major problem; U/A * Not applicable.



fUst Itmts                   r,                                s                    ,            tO. loss 2~-
w ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"s
UfltftWS I0o.M .WElW  *
.   .                               . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA.   ".                                            M. Usp
i        '-                                                                      -l-.-                                                                      ...
"s-Osso# ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p*
*                    S *,   ,                                              .        *taw                                  .                        .                  s t*I
,               '."'r ,*,,%                                                                                                                                    , s*.   I      .
.' ~          ~~~ I'        "              .    '                                                    '*',   
*                      -   -   '  I                    ..  .t  .                                                                         j      
r ~ ~ ~  ~~~                                                                   ~        ~~~                         ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ae*.A&. .  .gSe .   S.  4&6. .nsS*;.ACC
is~~~~~~~ r-s ............  s, ..                                                                                       .4.. u.~                .J..r..~..             .4.... * *C;;C _W   ;C'  
___.___|                                                                                                         1         l  ___    _,  en-'                                Iit,--1J
,,..g I                                                                                                 1 -(                                    -                                  1 



Annex 2
(Page 1 of 60)
|  a )   A P P O R T    D ' A  C H E V E M E N T
FEYRIER 1992
T -           |



Annex 2
(Page 2 of 60)
PLAN DU RAPPORT P.A.C.O.
SONNAI RE
...3u. & _wg
I NTRODUCTI ON
I      BILAN
1.1 - Objectif
1.2 - Pvqgua.ue
1.3 -  Rdsultats
1.4 -  Comentaires
II -   ANALYSE  DES  PRINCIPAUX  PROBLENES
III -  LES  ACQUIS
IV -   FINANCENENTS
v -    RAPPORTS  ENPRUNTEURS / COFINANCIERS  EXTERIEURS
VI -   LE  CONTROLE  FINANCIER
CONCLUSION



Annex 2
RAPPORT O'ACHEVENEIST 0U PROJET           (Page3of 60)
116 PARTIE
I NTRODUCT ION
L'Agriculture repr6sente le secteur le plus important de 1'Eco-
nomie Ivoirienne, en terme de contribution de Produit National
Brut, d'emploi, de revenus de 1'Etat ou de balance en devise.
Elle constitue la base du succ&s 6conomique Ivoirien des 20
derni6res ann6es.
Dans le Centre-Ouest, cette Agriculture est toute enti6re ax6o sur
la culture de deux Produits d'Exportation, CAPE et CACAO a les
Cultures VivriAros sont limit6es aux besoins familiaux, sauf dans
le cas du riz irrigu6 et de la banane plantain qui peuvent d6gager
des exc6dents commercialisables. On y trouve 6galemant des Cul-
tures d'introduction r6cente telles quo le Coton, le Cocotier
et l'Ignamo.
En 1977, 1. Gouvernement a d6cid6 de r6organiser le d6veloppement
rural dans le sens d'une intbgration des Activit6s Agricolos
(substitution des Socift6s de D6veloppemsnt Sectorial par des
Soci6t6s de D6voloppement R6gional).
C'est dans ce cadre, qu'a 6t& initi6 le Projet Agricola du Centre-
Ouest ayant pour objectif, une approche nouvelle de typo int6gr6
et de princips d'intervention diff6rent. Co Projet, coujointement
& des actions de D6veloppement novatrices, devait accorder uno
place importanto A des Programmes d'accompagnoment visant &
soutenir et & guider les Actions.
Le pr6sent document, qui sort do Rapport dlAchvomnat du Projet
ao D6veloppement Agricolo Int6gr6 4u Centro-Ouest (P.A.C.O.)
est le prolongement du Rapport d'Ex6cution redig& et pr6sent6
par 10 Projet en 1988.
-II est vrai qu'en 1988, l Projet a encore b6n6fici& do concours
financiers de la banque, mais ceci a a pas, & notre sons. ontrainb
des changements significatifs de la situation de fin 1987, d6-
nrltR dans le RavDort do 1988.



Annex 2
(Page 4 of 60)
En effet, lea financements de 1988 et 1989 Ont surtout permis une
r6insertion plus aisAe des structures et acquis du Projet, a
lensemble de la S.A.T.N.A.C.I..
L'un des objects du present rapport, est de tenter d'analyser
le comportement des diff6rents  partenaires principaux ayant
contribu6 A la mise en oeuvre du Projet, notamment les relations
entre l'Emprunteur (et la structure du Projet) et lea Cofinanciers.
I- BILAM
1.1 - OBJECTIF
L'analyse de situation a conduit a d6gager trois
objectifs majeurs s
1') Favoriser une approche int6gr&e par la mise en compte globals
du milieu paysan, c'est-&-dire le terroir et ses diff6rents
AlAments d'une part, et de lexploitation agricole d'autre part
(dans son terroir).
') Prendre en compte lensemble des 6l1mants qui contribuont
A la Promotion du D6veloppement Agricole.
2.1 Les Producteurs Agricoles, y compris les cultures vivri6re
2.2 Les moyenas de Production dans le but d'en am6Liorer
les performances.
2.3 Les Actours du D6veloppement et en particulier lea J3unes.
2.4 Les Activit6s li6es au D6veloppoment Rural pouvant
contribuor A une moilloure valorisation dos Productions.
30)   Promouvoir un milieu paysan apt. tant par son niveau do
connaissance et de savoir faire quo par son organisation A prondre
le relais des structures de d6voloppement.
Pour r6aliser les objectifs ci-dossus, il 6tait convenu 4'adoptor
ua. strat6gis nouvelle A partir des villages-test, de faqon
& la gin&ralisor A I'issue du Projet A l'ensemble d. la Region.
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  0 * ./



Annex 2
(page 5 of 60)
a) Obtenir uns meilleure connaissance de la r6gion et du
ces composantes (terroirs) et les donn6es tecbniques
devant servir de support a la vulgarisation, par t
- l'Atude des terroirs et des exploitations,
- la recherche d'accompagnement.
b) Adapter la structure d'encadremept a la prise 6.. compte
globale du d6veloppement agricole on t
- rendant l'encadrement la plus polyvalent possible,
- choisissant une cible nouvelle s l'exploitation dans
son ensemble,
- pr6vil6giant les interventions sur les group.s.
c) Se donner les moyens d'appr6cier 1'6tat des r6alisations
et leur conformit6 avec les pr6visions et Objectifs.
1.2 - LES PROGRAMMES
Deux types de programmes 6taient envisag6s s
1.2-1  Les ProVrammes Novateurs t
lls englobasint t
a) Am6nagement des ?erroirs et Narmonisation
des D6veloppement Agricoles et ibrestiers s
- l'am6lioration et l'intensification des systimeS
de Production,
- la Modernisation des mat6riels agricoles,
- la Promotion d'Organisatior Coop6rative Paysanoe,0
capable  & terms de prendre la rolais  e leuaca
drement, notamment pour leas fonctions 4'appro-
visionnsment, de comuercialisation et de credit.
....1



Annex 2
(Page 6 of 60)
1.2-2 La Poursuite des PrograrmIes Nationau,x en Cours
- Le CACAO:    r6habilitation,  am6lioration
qualitative des plantations.
Le CAFE s     Extension#  R6g6n6ration  par
r6c6page des plantations de
ROSUSTA  et  D6veloppement de
'ARABUSTA.
- Le COCOTIER: relance du Programme initi6
par la SODPALN.
- Le RIZ IRRIGUE s R6habilitation  et Am6na-
gement de nouveaux Bas-Fonds.
- Les CULTURES VIVRIERES PLVMALES s notanont
le Riz Pluvial et la Mats.
1.2-3  Les Prograius d'Accompaqnment t
- la Recherche-D6veloppement
- la Formation
- 1. Suivi-Evaluation
- l'Appui Logiatique A la Production regroupant
lea  3 Domaines de l'Approvisionnent, de
la Commercialisation et du Credit.
1.3 - LS RESULTATS a
(Voir Tableau).-



:-.
:    ;         ~~~~~~~4
i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~A m 
1.:
-Sll Mit   Stott                                                                                                            W-Vu 1                                                                      A I
ousl   o.su  00008          98889    *tti  Oo          ass tt OI S Ot   t*u    i'tt   £n8*8    OtOt  ('isle  *'18t  *t88            *414   88St    49.      §.o:    9.848   *ti.
89648t   0911    t01         80006e   *88    0.11        860 s 8.890. s§i    c     ttS 9.11    t14   t    V6*   *It tO   t           t84  tt1  4016    t*00.  *S  Ot     IId   43841    tF0    *
*st     _    i'         4sGOODS          tlOot                                  _.                      _        '                                                                     1         t
e(oi       most  .         *el   *s"t I
ttnt    °tOtDtt    o  00°tlt   COttt   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ g                                                                                                                         0VJ*   t±A8Y
los**    latis             Oak's   DoessI t.    .. ;
at                  - t *  Ot         ai  _              -        -                    _  _  _                                       *o _  _I aefit$ t-l .,40
orpsit*   '-                   *41     6Sl*   001t      *_04,   0                                   _4 Otto                                                                     _        58 seat     4941
19496  *9408  0609    0609                                                                                                                                                      .    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  S  0  a  a  S  JAQ4
918 _ _*e     89 DO1       last,                       ogl _1 486t                                                                                                                                  -
@4169    91841  .   -  1 _191                                                                                                                                                               .
w0e *0  ost w00000                                                                   ,v ,ii   . 'a
81618~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 01*  06  66                                                                                I



Anne= 2
(Page 8 of 60)
1.4 - COMMENTAIRE DES RESULTATS
1.4-1 - Les Actions du Programme Traditionnel ,
Ces actions pr6vues dans le cadre des activit6a
courantes do la Zone du Centre-ouest ont lar-
gement b6n6ficid de 1'6volution pe=tise Par
1lintroduction  m6thodologique  adapt6e  et
technique moderne.
a) La Relance Caftiere
Les programmes men&s concernent i
- La plantation de vari6t6S performantes
- la r6g6n6ration caf6ibre & partir des activit6a
de r6c6page
- la qualitb du produit marchand par l'animation &
une bonne r6colte et a une meilloure pr6paration
du produit marchand. (Cabosses mOres, fermentation,
a&chage, triage....).
- Extension
Objectif , 12.605 hectares
&alisation 5.625 hectares
Tauxw           45 %.
Faible niveau de r6alisation imputable A l'insuffisance des boutures
racin6es essentiellement due au nombre insuffisant de Centres
do Bouturage en fonctionnemaent dans la r6gion. I1 faut aussi
aoutor quo certains des Centres avaient 6t& ferm6e suite & une
d cision du Gouvernement d'arrter les extensions.
- R66nration Caftire
ObJectif a 20.810 hectares
-* -.   R6alisation 15.111 hectares
Taux       -   :73 I
--'Son r6suItat dOa 
.*       :   .   zux innovations teChniquos (r6c6page a blac, r:6o-
page progressif).
. mise & la disposition effective de la  prim  en
. . : nature.    :
... ,.1



Amnex2
(Page 9 of 60)
b) R6habilitation CACAO 2
Cette operation consisto A redensif isr les plantations
de CACAO (fermetures de trous de luni6re).
Objectif s       22.850 hectares
R6alisation s    34.265 hectares
Taux  :              150 %
Cette op6ration a rencontro Iladh6sion totals des paysans. Ce
qui so traduit par le r6sultat ci-dessus.
- Traitement anti-miride
Objectif :      127.950 hectares
RMalisation s    94.154 hectares
Taux :                74 %.
La mise en place d'un syst6me do cr6dit appropri6 a pe-mis d'ob-
tenir ces resultats satisfaisants.
c) Les Vivriers s
Les programmes men6s 6taient loS suivants s
- apport d'engrais
- distribution de semences s61.ctionn6es.
Mais ils ont vite montr& lour limite, car le simple calcul 6cono-
mique montre que l'apport d'engrais sur vivrier non stabilis6,
an d6friche foresti6re n'apporte pas un gain financier apprb-
ciable, et les semences s6lectionn6os dans les conditions tradi-
tionnelles de culture no donnent pas l. mailleur r6sultat.
Les r6suLtats quantitatifs globaux enrogistr6s sont s
Ob1ectif        R4alisations       t
RIZ PLUVIAL    72.027 Ha.       125.312 Ha.         174
RIZ IRRIGUE    23.466 Ha.        17,169 Ha.          73
M-IS           46.504 Ha.        88.716 Ha.         191
.. /



Annex 2
(Page 1) of 60)
c) Procramme d'Extension du Cocotier
La programme en cours en 1981. nla pas 6t6 Poursuivi
du fait des cobts trop bas du coprah sur le March6 International.
1.4-2 - Les Programmes de Type Novateur
21 s'agit de convaincre le planteur de la n6ces-
site de faire Avoluer sa pratique et de trouver avec
lui les techniques possibles, compte,tenu des contraintes
qui p6sent sur l'exploitation ou de faire 6voluer les
techniques connues en fonction des blocages constat6s.
Sur le plan logistique, concernant les approvisionnmentns,
les 6quipements, la m6canisation, le cridit et la struc-
turation coop6rative, l'action a porte sur la d6finition
du service rendu et sur sa gestion dans un cadre permettant
une prise en charge croissante par leas planteurs.
Ainsi les principales innovations techniques marquantes
du P.A.C.O. ont  t  I
- Cultures PAreM"s £ CAPE, CACAO, COCOTTER)
- R6c&page A blanc
- RAc6page progressif
- l'Entretien des Caftiers
- Plantation de Cafo ARABUSTA en grappes
- R6habilitation des Cacaoyers en production
- Extension Cocotier.
- Cultures Vi4riarsa avec t
. Augmentation de la densitA sur Riz et Mals
. Conservation des rAcoltes avec l'ACW=C
. Augmentation du nonbre de d6sherbage our riz et nm
* Traitement pr6alable des samences au MARSHALL/
THIRAME
.. -_    8emis tardif de varift6 de riz A cycle long.
; . _.. R6alisation des semis juste apr6s br0LAs our
Riz et Mats
. Multiplication do varift6s nouvelles, hautement
productrices d'igname
I Introduction  de  l'ligAm   dans le  r6cApage
A blanc du Caftior
M Wise on valeur des bas-fonds par sekis do
la variAt6 du riz inond6 IMDsa 6 pour ac@O@i
pagner le mouvement des autochtonos vers cea  baa-
fonds. ..



Annex 2
(Page II of 60)
- La M6canzsatioD 
. les atomiseurs an lutte anti-mirides
.les tron;onneuses en extension et r6c6page
* les d6broussailleuses en entretien
. les tracteurs remorques en transport
. les motoculteurs en Riz Irrigue.
- Am*nagemmnt du Torroir s
. enquStes de base
. lea pistes
* les points d'eau
* les bas-fonds.
- L.'ApgI Logistique :
. leas approvisionnements
. le Cr6dit Agricole
* la st:ucturation coop6rative.
1.4-3 - Les Programmes d'Accompanement a
a) La Recherche-OMveloppement
La Recherche-D6veloppement a :
. dans un premier temps, proc6d& & une analyse
des m6canismes de production permattant do
localiser leas blocages A l'application des
propositions techniques,
. dans un deuxi6me temps, & l'application do
nouvelles propositions techniques dans le
contexte paysan.
Par ailleurs, une 6tude agro-6conomique a 6t6 men6e parall6leumst
sur plusiours themes s6lectionna6 dont les principaux sont le1
suivants 
SUiVt8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. * 



Annex 2
(Page 12 of 60)
- blocage foncier et solutions vivri&res
- installation des allog6nes
- budget-recettes_64penses
- champ de riz - cultures vivrieres de base
- contrat de main-d'oeuvre
- points d'essais du milieu contr8lA
- test en milieu.
b) La Pormation
L'un des objectifs prioritaires du Projet de D&velop-
pement Agricole Int6gr6 du Cantre-Ouest, vise la mise en place
d'un Syst6me Vulgarisation et d'Appui aux Agriculteurs capables
d'apporter un conseil permanent aux Exploitants aussi bien dans
1s domaine des techniques agricoles que cclui  de la gegtion
de leur exploitation.
Dans catte hypothase, le r8le de la Formation est de donner
aux Agents, une fozatio  technicue vPoIwlente. mm fozition
techni a & La gastion et u0 fot.ation udqqqo
C) Le Genie Civil a
Les fonctions principales en la matifte ont 6t6 la miss
en place de programms a
- d'am6nagements do nouveaux bas-fonds
- do reconditionnement d'ancions bas-fonds.
Nota Boe i Pour le d6tail des r6alisations techniques. so report
au Rapport dElzcutian du P.A.C.O..
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   .. 



Ann  2
(Page 13 of 60)
1 - ANALYSE DES PRINCIPAUX PROBLWNSB
Les  nombreuses  dif ficult&s  rencontr6es ont
pes6 sur la qualit6 des r6sultats.
Nous pouvons souligner
2.i - AU NIVEAU TECHNIQUE s
- Csnt: de Soutuxage CAPE a
Lo Programme de Relance Cafti6re a connu des diffi-
cult6s dans son ex6cution par I'insuffisance de boutures
racin6es qui s'explique par s
- la fermeture de 50 % des C.B.C. suite & l'arr6t
do l'extension (d6cision gouvernementale)
- le manque d'autonomie de gostion des C.8.C. du Projet.
- Cocotier S
Le Programme Cocotier initi& par la SODEPALK et
poursuivi par le Projet dans les Zones non propices A la
culture du CAFE et du CACAO a 6t6 arrdt6 en raison do :
- la baisse des couts de coprah rendant I'achat
par PALNINDUSTURE trop co(ltoux,
- difficult6 de fourniture du mat6riel v6g6tal par
1ERO Port-Bouft.
- Arabusta s
Ce programme de cr6ation de grappes a 6t6 art6
apr6s r6alisation de 3 blocs de 50 hectares chaeun dans
les Zones test d'ISSIA et de GUIBEROUA, on raison des a
- problmes techniques de d6pulpage do la production,
- difficult6s de financement des installations our
les blocs cr66s.
Notoculteurs s
D6finktion tardive par le CINA du type do moto-
culteurs A utillser our lea bas-fonds.
*. 1.*/.*.



Annex 2
(Page 14 of 60)
- D6broussailleuse
La diffusion de ce mat6riel etait bien lanc&e,
mais a ete bloquee par le probleme de pieces de rechange.
- Tracteur PANGOLIN
Le probleme de transport des produits des champs
vers le campement n'a pas trouve de solution satisfaisante,
en raison de la non-adaptation de ce materiel.
2.2 - AU NIVEAU ENCADREMENT
- Le svsteme "Formation-Visite" a perturb6 la
mithodologie propre au Projet.
- La Formation des Techniciens Spfcialis6s
ayant ete mal apprehendie, ces agents out eu
une participation assez faible dans le Projet.
- L'absence du D.O.T. a rendu difficile les
actions de coordination des activites techni-
ques et la diffusion des information sur
l'evolution du Projet.
2.3 - AU PLAN DE L'ENVIRONNEKENT
- L'alignement des salaires : la baisse de 50 %
de la masse salariale avec des ajustements
tres lents a et& pr4judiciable, surtout dans
la periode 1985-86.
- Le vieillissement de la gopulation aqricole
le vieillissement des Chefs d'Exploitation qui
restent en poste sans retraite, ni indeonit4
garantie comme fermage. Ce syst&me no permet
pas de maintenir que les moins instruits et
mains dynamiques.
... I...



Annex 2
(Page 15 of 60)
- La B.N.D.A. :
Les problemes de gestion et de tresorerie 8NDA
au moment oa le cr4dit prenait son essor ont
provoque un durcissement. alors que des raisons
serieuses justifiaient la mise en place d'un
systeme souple de rattrappage des debiteurs.
La gestion industrielle du cr4dit, mais avec
sanction sur le groupe penalisent tous les
bons paysans.
- Les photos aeriennes :
De nombreuses difficultes ont fait que cette
activit& n'a pu etre menee avec les structures
prevues.
- La D.M.C. :
Difficultes d'adaptation des Agents de Coopara-
tion DMC mis a la disposition du Projet. Ce qui
a considerablement gene la mise en oeuvre de la
politique en matiere de cooperation initi6e au
Projet.
III - LES ACQUIS
- Au plan encadrement :
Le projet laisse en place une structure d'inter-
vention adaptee et performante, permettant de faire le lien
entre la filiere technique et la fili&re logistique. Cette
structure se caracterise par les points suivants :
- Vulgarisation de themes techniques tenant compte
et des objectifs nationaux et des contraintes d 'exploitation
relevies par un diagnostic d ensemble etabli au niveau de
1'encadrement de base.
- Organisation rationnelle de la vulqarisation per-
mettant d'int4grer la formation permanente du Moniteur.
e.**t* 



Annex 2
(Page 16 of 60)
- Connaissance approfondie du milieu, de ses con-
traintes et de ses potentialites. En effet, le territoire du
ProJet a et6 subdivise en 24 UAP (Unite d'Appui a la Production),
chacune suivie par un Superviseur, et 7 i 10 Moniteurs pour la
partie technique, et 2 Conseillers en Groupesent et Gestion
(CGG) pour la partie logistique.
- AU PLAN TECHNIQUE :
- Entretien de 21antation (Cafe  :
Le paysan a pris conscience que l'amelioration
de sa production passe par le nettoyage et
1'4gourmandage de sa parcelle de cafe.
- Traitement anti-miride (Cacao :
La mise en place des prnts de campagne a permis
I un qrand nombre de paysans de traiter spontaz&-
ment leurs plantations.
- Semis du Riz Pluvial et Mats :
Beaucoup de paysans ont abandonne le semis a la
vol6e au profit de semis en coquets, qui a pour
avantage lVaialioration de la densit6 et la di-
minution de la quantit4 de semences utilisees ;
l'hectare.
- Semences df'rname Florido :
Adoption et diffusion sur tout le territoire dE
Projet.
- Or@nisation des G.V.C. :
Les paysans ont perqu la nicessit4 de se regrouper
en structures dynamiques que sont los Unions Sec-
torielles installies aujourd'hui dans tout 1e PACO.
e   _            J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*                      ,/**-~~~~~~~~e



Annex 2
(Page 17 of 60)
AU PLAN DES AMENAGEMENTS
Le Projet laisse :
- des bas-fonds rizicoles amenages ou reconditionnes
- des puits
- des pistes
qu'il faudra entretenir.
IV - F_I N A N C E M E N T
Le financement du Projet est prevu dans le cadre de
deux Conventions :
- RCI-CCCE  : Convention N' 58-247-00-108-OW
du 16 - 08 - 1982
- RCI-BIRD  : Accord Pret BIRD-RCT N* IVC 2167
d-u 28 - 09 - 1982
Le cout du Projet est estime a 14.877 millions de
Francs CFA repartis comme suit par source de financement et par
affectation (en millions de francs CFA).
C  ~ ~  ~    :B I R D:.C. C  .E .   RI.    )..  . .   O A
*        .B.IRD*C*C^CvE- .-C+;Is .EXPLOITANTS  )
* :---  . :       :        :--:               )
( S.A.T.1.A.C.I.   3.353    4.010  . 3.437  .    -        10.800)
{~~ ~ ~~~~ :          .        :        :          :       )
B(B.N.D.A.       *  103        40       73  *    -           216)
(           :        :         :        : ~ ~~~ .   :      )
(KINAGRI              54      -    :   -          -            4)
( EXPLOITANTS                                3 -    '  -  -   3.807   : 3.807)
AGRICOLES                                  : e
(: -         :       :       :         :   )~~-------    ----
(T O T A L       :3.510   4.050   3.510        3, 807    14.877)
(    ,                    *                         .  .        )
( POURCENTAGE    : 24 %  : 27 %  : 24 %  :  25S%    : 100%)t
(                    :        :         :               :)



Annex 2
(Page 18 of 60)
4.1 _ SITUATION REELLE DES CONSOMMATIONIS
(~~                                        ~   ~~ .  -- a
BAILLEURS  : MONTANT DU   CONSOMMA-        ECO:Sm-)
:. ECART
DE FONDS       CREDIT         TION     ..&ATION
(     *  :             :              :             :       )4 
-- -- -- -  -  -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -
( B.I.R.D.   :3.353.000.000:3..316.564.871:36.435. 129  :  99
( C.C.C.E.   :4.010.000.000:3.039.861.631:970338. 369  :  76  )
( BSIE       :3.437.000.000:3.202.777.132:234.222.868  :  93  )
-- - -- - - :                            ---- --- ---
( TOTAL      :10800.000.000:9.569.203.634:1.240.796.366:   69 
- 4.2 - SITUATION DES REMBOURSEMENTS ATTENDUS
Le montant total des prestations prefinancees par la
SATMACI (le Projet) et dont le remboursement est encore attendu
s '41lve a 775.328.278 F CFA repartis conmme suit par source de
financement :
= BIRD         ...........   103.721.507  F  CTA
- CCCE           :           137.641.111  F CFA
- aSIE           :           506.965.660  F  CFa
V - RAPPORTS EMPRU      S - CO-FINANCIERS EXTERIEURS
5e1 - COMPORTEMENT DE L'IEPRUNTEUR LUI-MEME
Ce comporteient est marque par les faits sui-
vants:
- le Projet a connu plusieurs changements au
niveau de la tutelle ministerielle 
- les difficultes 4conOmiques et leur incidence
sur la mise en place des fonds ;
- la lonqueur de certaines proc4dures adminis-
tratives notamment lei marchAs.



Annex 2
(Page 19 of 60)
5.1.1. - Durant le deroulement du Projet, la
structure qui l'a accueillie a connu
trois tutelles ministerielles succes-
sives : Minist4re de l'Aqriculture et
des Eaux et Forats (82-83) - Ministere
du Developpement Rural (84-87) et Mi-
nistere de lAgriculture (87-89).
L'une des principales cons&quences de
ces changements a ete la non-utilisa-
tion par le Ministere, des fonds des- -
tines I financer des etudes, d'appui
au Projet, ainsi que le long delai
d'approbation du Marche des pistes
(1985 au lieu de 1983).
5.1.2 - Le ProJet s'est deroule a une periode
de forte recession economique. De ce
fait : le Projet a eu souvent a recou-
rir a des avances bancaires pour eviter d
longues periodes de rupture de tresorerie
bien que lea fonds provenant dis autres
co-financiers notamment le BIRD, aient
;ete normalement disponibles suite aux
D.R.F.
5.1.3 - Les ProcEdures administratives
La longueur d'approbation du Marche sur
les pistes a eu pour consequence une re-
duction du quantitatif, eu 6gard & l'en-
veloppe disponible.
La relative difficulte de trouver des
Experts Expatri4s, Directeur Technique
(au debut du Projet) et Directeur Fi-
nancier (en cours de Projet).
.0.1. ./ ..



Annex 2
(Page 20 of 60)
5 .2 - LE COMPORTEMENT DE LA BANQUE
Signalons de prime abord que les premieres et
troisiemes parties du Rapport d'Achevement,
r4digees par la Banque ne nous ont pas ete com-
muniquees.
Pour analyser le comportement de la Banque et
ses relations avec l'Emprunteur dans le cadre
du Projet, nous aborderons les points suivants :
- les supervisions, la mise en place des fonds,
l'incidence du PVA, l'evaluation des reali-
sations du Projet.
5.2.1 - Les missions de sunervision
R6alisees en moyenne a deux missions par an,
elles ont effectivement contribue A raffermir
Vexecution du Projet, et ont permis d'adopter
des decisions qui ont influence le bon derou-
lement du Projet :
- la qestion par la structure mime du Projet
de deux activit6s initialement devolues a
d'autres Directions de la SATMACI : les
Magasins d'Approvisionnement et les Centres
de Bouturage Caf£ ;
- l'introduction de la methode de"Training
and Visits" dans le Projet en remplacement
du systame de refgrence traditionnel SATMACI.
5.2.2 - La mise en place des fonds suite aux nfl
Ici, l'on doit louer la disponibiliti et la
diligence de la Banque a faire face aux DMF
prisentees, notamment dans les p6riodes oau
le Projet souffrait de manque de tr6sorerie.
... /...



Annex 2
(Page 21 of 60)
C'est essentiellement qrace aux fonds tires
sur la Banque que les pr4judices li6s aux
ruptures de tr6sorerie ntont pas ete trop
ressentis.
5.2.3 - L'incidence du P.V.A.
En 1984, (donc f in de la 2eme Annee du Projet)
le PVA fit sa premiire apparition en c8te
d'Ivoire, et s'interessa, entres autres StrLc-
tures a la SATMACI (et partant au Projet).
Deux choses ont milit6 en faveur du PVA au ni-
veau du Projet :
a) - une certaine similitude d'approche entre
le systeme novateur integre du PACO et la
methode PVA, nota-ment la liaison entre
R/D et Vulgarisation, les visites tour-
nantes des paysans ;
b) - la quasi certitude qu'au bout d'un an et
demi, la SATMACI aurait remplace dans son
ensemble, le systeme traditionnellement
applique en vulgarisation, par la methode
"T and V".
Ce changement au sein de la SATMACI, posait
au Projet, le probleme de la reference de
la base, pour pouvoir evaluer a terme le
systime novateu-:.
5.2.4 - L'hvaluation des resultats du Protet
Avec le recul, il apparalt que les derniers
Experts Superviseurs de la Banque, aient perdu
de vue l'aspect 'comparaison de deux approches
du paysan, au sein du Projet : un systeme no-
vateur polyvalent et integr6 mis en form. et
affine dans les secteurs Test (le Laboratoire)
et le syst5me traditionnel SATMACI (remplace a
la fin dans le Projet par le syst&me "T and V".



Annex 2
(Page 22 of 60)
Cette variation de vision est lIie & notre sens,
aux changements fr6quents de 1'Expert qui a en
charge, le Projet au niveau de la 8anque.
Il faut aussi signaler que les Experts de la
Banque ne semblent pas accorder l'importance
nicessaire aux documents r6dig6s par les autres
co-financiers (entre l'Emprunteur et la CCCE)
et le rapport de factibiiit& de 1'Empruntour.
Ainsi, l'evaluation de la performance du sys-
t&me novateur, (plus que les secteurs tests)
est quelque peu occult'e par les Avaluateurs;
ctest a cet effet, que le Projet a r4diq& en
1989, un document permettant de comparer les coats
et les performances de chacun des secteurs.
La lecture de ce document "Cout/Efficacite des
EncadrementA PACO de 1983 i 1987", nous paralt
indispensable.
Nous le joignons en annexe au present Rapport.
Les changements successifs de Responsables aussi
bien     du c8te de L'Emprunteur (Ministeres de
Tutelle) que de la Banque (Agents Superviseoss
sont surement ; la base de l'arrAt pr4matur; et
inattendu du Projet ; en effet, jusqu'au Rapport
d'evaluation de la SEDES (en 1988), Rapport re-
jete par la partie Ivoirienne, aucun Rapport de
Supervision no signale de tendance I Il4cec
dans l'execution du Projet.
5.3 - RAPPORT EMPRUNTEUR / C.C.C.E.
5.3.1. - La mise en place des fonds
L'application de la regle de la clause d'origine
a et6 correctement suivie par 1'Emprunteur,.
ainsi, tras peu de d6penses ont rejethes par le
Co-financier sur cette base.
I..1..



Annex 2
(Page 23 of 60)
Les difficultes economiques vecues par lVoi-
prunteur ont provoque quelques troubles entre
les deux Institutions, entratnant des sus-
pensions de d6caissementS de la part de la
CCCE, et des difficult6s de tresorerie du Pro-
jet, relates plus haut.
5.3.2. - La Supervision
Bien que n'etant pas tenu par la r4gle de deux
Supervisions annuelles appliquees par la MIRD,
la CCCE a eu a participer a presque toutes les
supervisions, en association avec la Banque.
Les conclusions tirees ci-dessus sont egalment
valables ici.
5.3.3. - L'evaluation du Proiet
La CCCE a semble-t-il mal accp_tf le choix
Bien que les Agents de suivi bases sur place
aient souvent change, le fait que le Projet ait
eu au niveau de Paris pratiquement un sul et
mime Agent Responsable, a favoris6 une certaine
concordance de vue, entre la Direction du Pro-
jet et la CCCE.
La CCCE a semble-t-il mal accepte 1'introductiou
du systeme "T and V" en lieu et place du volet
"Traditionnel" dans le Projet ; mais jusqu*ici,
nous nous demandons ce qu'il aurait fallu faire:
- garder le Traditionnel tel quel, come rrf-
rence ou prendre le "T and V".
Mise A part cette restriction, qui d'ailleurs a fait
jour en 1987 seulement, lors du dernier passage du Responsable
Parisien du Projet, aucun signe ne laissait pr4saqer un arr&t
des activites du Projet, bien au contraire.
*--/-ee



Annex 2
(Page 24 of 60)
VI - LE CONTROLE  FINANCIER  D'ENSEMBLE
Ce contr6le a ete assur6 par deux Auditeurs succes-
sifs qui ont couvert tout le Projet de 1983 a 1989. Les Audits
iiont pas mis en evidence de reels problemes de gestion fi-
nanciere.
C O N C L U S I O N
Le P.A.C.O. a indeniablement laisse des acquis im-
portants dans la zone du Projet, et mAeme au niveau de l'en-
semble SATIhACI.
Aujourd'hui, avec la tendance a la mise en oeuvre au
niveau national d'un systame polyvalent et inteqre d'approche
du paysan, nous pensons que les acquis du P.A.C.O., en de no.-
breux domaines de cette approche (suivi intgqr6 de l'Exploi-
tation. Mouvement Coop&ratif, Gestion, etc...) sont d actualitf.



Annex 2
(Page 25 of 60)
S I G L E
B.N.D.A.          : BANQUE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMEIT
AGRICOLE
D. M. C.          : DIRECTION DE LA MUTUALITE ET DE LA
COOPERATION
0. R. F.          : DEMANDE DE  RETRAIT  DE FONDS
P. A. C. 0.       : PROJET AGRICOLE  DU  CENTRE - OUEST
S.A.T.M.A.C.I.    : SOCIETE D'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE POUR LA
MODERNISATION AGRICOLE DE LA Cote d'IVOIRE



Annex 2
(Page 26 of 60)
|         F)    N  N  E  X  E  S



Annex 2
S.A.T.M.A.C.I                                                    (Page 27 of 60)
PROJET AGRICOLE CEINTRE CUEST
COUTS- / EFFICACITE
DES ENCADREMENTS DU PROJET
DE  1983  A  1987
JUIN 89



Annex 2
(Page 28 of 60)
ET¢E - ANALYSE DES COUTS DU F -T AGRICOLE DU CENTRE
S)UET POUR LA FMIODE 1983 - 1987
Considraznt que l'u1   des objectifs majeura du PACO atait de uettre
Nn place une structure d'encadrement adaptee a la r6gi±o  du Centre-Quest (Zone
forecti4re), nous avons recherche a travers 'l 4tude ci-dessous & compasr les
coiats relatifs au Type d'encadrement eufectivement mis en place (Tests + Nova-
teuws) et au type d'encadrement existant tra itionmellement dans la stucture
SA5MACI.
Afia de fixer I09 idhes, raFpelos bri±vement la stratAgie d'inter-
vOntioQi du PACO basee sur 1l succession d'actions suivates :
- intorvention sur 3 sectsurs dits secteurs tests oa sont d£finies
puis e pfrimenttos uAthodes do vulgLrisati±o (tecbnique et
logistique) et tecbziques culturales.
- Diffusion de: ces m&thodes et tocbniques sur 5 puis 8 secteurs
dits secteurs novattecs, soit im9 diffusio ean grandeur r6elle.
- Ginhralisation de cette fdiffusion i lonsemble des 24 steos
en tin de Prolet.
nl taut hgalouent noter qu'& pertfr de 1985, s'est greftf sur Is
strat6gio prve du PACO, la systime de vuigprisation 0Formtion-Visitesu.
CGt 6hiuont ne cbange em rion leas donn.es de l'itude, car lea actions d6crites
ei-desaus ont ett respecthes.
LA buse de comperaison, (le sectow traditonn&l),devenait & paertr
de 1985 le lieu oa i. sytime  'Fomrotion et visites intl-vexma, coie dans lten-
semble de la SlTfSACI.
L'htude a 6t6 rdsalis6 aelon le processus suivant :
- Mipartition de l'enemble deo codts (voir tablesum ftionciors)
cntre lea 3 types d'it.trvention.
- RUsultats teoaCiques globm=w at aZ=l3  suivant les 3 types d'ln-
tanrmationz et low analyse.
- Anuiayse coapurative des Ccits/MR6mutats sUivant les 3 types
.-      d'intervention. A co niveau nous avons conaldh4 :
- l'aspect quactith d'epoi tation (total rAgion ot suives)
-  .'aspect rhpartiticm  pci&   de dl'_ drea_t
- l'aspeot  perficies r&lisim.



Annex 2
(Page 29 of 60)
tE - EXPLICATIONS DES TABLEAUX FINANCIERS
1/ - Pr-cessus de dete --iraticn des couts
Nous avons calcule 1l_s couits selon les pri-'!Cipes classicues de la
comptabilit4 analytique.
Nous avons considere les trois (3) acti-ites vrincizales retenues
par la Direct;in Tecl.Ique cc2e e'tant les produits du PACO : YIovateur,
&es; et T-aditlonnel.
Le cout global du PACO doit etre reparti entre ces trois produilts.
Nous savons par ailleurs que le PACO est constituf de plusiurs
centres d'op6rations appel}s services et disposons dans nos livres ecrpta-
bles et budg4taires des couits sly a.Cf6rant.
Nous prockdons donc a une premiere repartition qui consiste i
transferer les couts des services entre eux en vue de tenir compte des
interf6rences qui se sont produites entre ces di±ffrents services.
Ces interferences sont d6termiun6es selon des indicateurs qui cut
t  d6finies ensemble avs.n la Direction Tecknique (cf annexe I).
Le tableau des indicateurs nous permet ensuite de d6terminer des
Cl6U  de r6partition qu' on pourrait appelor "taux d'interf6rence".
Nous indSquons dans ce qui suit, comment nous avons proc6der
au cho±. des indicateurs.
Le Service Formation ex6cute des opo6tionA de formation des
agents de tous les services. L'effectif form6 pour le compte des autres
services constitue l'indicateur du cout de ces services.
Pour le Service A.L.C .: U. s'agit surtout de coop6ration , nous
cosid6Urons done lea C.G.0 comme l indicateur.
Pour Lat -berche/ Dveloppement, le service Actions Tests  tant
1  iou. 'senu fise do see aotivit6s, see  oufta soront entiLronent affect6a
A es service.
Le Se.Zlice Suivi-Evaluation trzavaille surtout aupr&s des pq=s
*lors des enquetes. Le volume de son aevitA varie done en fonctian du
nobr. de plntewura sUivia.



3Annex2
(Page 30 of 60)
Les C.3.C (Centre de Bouturage Cafe) font la production de bouturse
UAs boutures produites constituent donc 1 _ndicateur.
Le C.I.M.A consacre surtout ses activitis i la micanisation.
Les machines agricoles ont et retenues ici comme I indicateur.
La Direction elle, est u-n service aui a pour activit6 principale
la gestion du Personnel, Ileffectif de chaque service en constitue l'indi-
cateur.
Coci constitue la premiere etape du processus (cf 1. tableau des clfs de
r6partition).
L'etame suivante consiste a determiner -erf nction des "taux
dtinterf4rencen que chaque service regoit des autres, la "valour d'inter-
firence"(la somme de ce que c.<que service regoit des autres). Cette valeur
d'interf6rence ajout6e au coat reel budg6taire nous donne un coat apres
r6partition.
Enfin une derniere etape consiste a r6pp.rtir le Service A.T.P
(coit apres repartition) entre les Actions Novatrice,s et Traditioumelles
solon un taux base sur les chiffres reels tels que contenus dans le rap-
port de r6alisations budgetaires  Ocf tableaux type II).
Apres cette explication du processus, nous passons a l'explicatioa
d  calcul des coats proprement dits.
2/  Le caleul des couts.
Le calcul du coat d'un produit se fait sur la base des comptes
de charges de la comptabilit6 g6n6rale.
Les cbarges par nature sont r6saffectees par destination, co qui
veut dire quo le coat est ie 'a un exercice donni.
C'est povrquoi, chaque exercice aura sea coats et aussi, los in-
vestissements no seront pris en compte quo pour la partie anortie de co
type de d6pese.
Apris cette premiere repartition des services entre etx, nous
pocedons a une seconde repartition dans laquelle le coat de chaque
service (apr's la premi4re r6partition) est impute selon le coat r&ea budge
taire entre leq trois (3) produits (Novateur - Test - Traditionnel).
Eifin de compte, les coats de tous les services vont s'm=uzer,
chaque produit aura son ccat.
*~~~~~~~~~ * *.*/.* 



Annex 2
(Page 31 of 60)
I1 faut noter le caracterrk un peu particulier des amortissementA
:e nous avons d'abord pris dans un service fictif "amortiOsements", le
processus demeurant le meme.
Enfin, un dernier aspect important de ce calcul de cofits est la
variabilit6 des charges en foncti=r de ltactivitt.
Nous avons :-nsid6re que les couits des diff6rents services varient
avec _' activit4 jt6 va d  a."t I '4JtX  Lto)
Los amortissements d'un certain type d'investissement sont eux
aussi variables :
- Bs-fonds
- Puits
- Pistes
- Materiels agricoles
- Mat6riels 6quipements.
Les coufts directs variables c'est-4-dire lea facteurs do produc-
tion (cose leur nos lVindique) varient en fonction do l'activit6.
Par contre, les amortissements des d6penses suw :
- B&timouts
- Mat6riol roulait
- MLt&riel et Mobilier
sant fixes.
On trouvera en Annexe I
- Les tableaux des cles de r6partition annuals
- Les tableaux de r6partition et de calcul des couits de chaque
produit.



5                                               Annex 2
LUX  nz:-TC:IS  (Axnnexes II)                                 (Page 32 of 60)
2.1   TA4BLEAU   ThCMIQIE  I
Rhalisations Annuelles et Cumulees de 1983 a 1989 (31-5)
2.2.  TABMEAX  TEC1NIUS  II a VI
Etude Coat Projet/R8alisations (ha) dans les 3 actions Tests, Novatrices
et Traditionnelles
Etude annuelle et Cumul6e
to type "tradition=elV servira de point de repere a l'itude : I1 9'agit
en effet du systeme de vulgarisation habituellement en upsag & la S==MACI.
A partir de 1985, ce type devient identifiable au systeme Formation et
Visites en vigueur a la SATMACI.
L PACO a continui d'entreprendre sea activiths Tests et Novatrices, &
prtir dtun encadrement technique organis6 suivant le systAme Formation
et Visites.
22.1 _<TOITATIM'S QSTANTES (1-z1)
- Noabre d' exploitations relevees par le Service Suivi-Evaluation dans
ses enquites de 1983-84 et 1986-87
Pour 1985, nous avons utilis6 um moyen-cbiffre
22.2  @CTARpE EISTANTS (1-2)
- Mewe m'ethode, bas6e sur les enquetes du Service Suivi-Evaluation
Les couts ainsi calcules sont ceux qua devrait avoir le Projet au maxim=u
de son action c'est B dire si tous ios planteurs appliquent les conseils
mugs, sur letnsemble de leur exploitation.
On note ainsi une moyenae annuelle de 2964 F/Ha existant au niveau Projet
ce qui est en compl&te conformitA avee lea taux babituels.
Le coat global par Ha du Projet est 12 670 F
22.3  PLANEURS AVEC PRGRANMM  (2-1)
- Jusquten 1985, il s'agit des planteurs inscrits dans les Atelers de
Formation, ayant souscrits aux progammes techniques proposus, et r6gu-
li&rement suivis par lea Moniteurs lors do leus visites hobdoudafres.
- A partir de 1985, il s'agit des planteur8 inscrits dun lea Ateliere de
Formation, dans le cadre du systime Formation et Visites, et r6gulhement
8Uivis par les Mkniteurs lors de leurs visites de quinza±ne.



Annex 2
(Page 33 of 60)
22.4 1ECTLRES SUIVIS (2-2)
- fl saagit des superficies totales des exploitations des planteurs avec
programme.
Les couits ainsi calcules sont ceux que !evrait avoir le Projet si l'en-
semble des planteurs adheren.:s, recenses exhaustivement, avait effective-
ment applique les conseils regus, sur lensemble de leur exploitation.
Ie cout ainsi calcule est le coat reel var Planteur suivi. fl eat globa-
lement de 150 417 F par planteur pour ltensemble du Projet.
Le cout par hectare suivi fourni une premiare indication sur la d6perdltion
entre le potentiel de la region et le suivi effectif.
22.5 XECTARES REALISES (3-1)
fl s'agit des superficies effectivement realis6es par lea planteurs
ap.-.iquant les conseils des Moniteurs.
'a cost par hectare r6alis6 est donc le cofOt reel du Proet par rapport
a ses realisations exprimEes en hectares.
IL faut noter que les superficies considerees englobent l'ensemble des
rialisations du Pro-et en cr6ation et en r6habilitation (ou rajeunissrment
ou regeneration ou reconditionnement)
Toutefois nous avons pris comme base de r6alisation:
- le ler traitement obligatoire (Aoat-8eptembre) pour la lutte
Anti-mirides
- les superficies en cafe nettoyees au moins 2 fois pour l'entretien
- les superficies semees ou repiquees pour les vivriers
Nous avons egalement considere que les travaux de Odnie Civil, exprimbles
en Km de pistes ou en vnit6s (points d'eau) avaieant leur part d'impact sur
lea superficies (lutte mnti-mirides, entretiens, qualit6).



Annex 2
(Page 34 of 60)
2.3 ANALYSS fES TABLEZOX  1; a VI
Le coat total du Projet est de 6.651.582.000 F CTA (coats avec Amortia-
sements) dont 6.256.985.000 sans amortissements.
La repartition est la suivante :
1.820.232.000 FCFA pour les activites de Type Test
917.493.000 S'CFA pour les activites de Type Novateur
3.913.857.000 FCFA pour les activit4s 6tant d6finies comme
en usage a la SATMACI (dites de Type Traditiomiel).
Ainsi, les realisations de 1983 a 1987 ont coute :
- 33.889 ECFA par hectare pour les Actions Tests (soit 6.778 F/H/an,
ou a ete men6 l'ensemble des travawu de GCnie-Civil concernazt
lea pistes et les points d'eau.
Una grande part des Activiths de Recherche-D6veloppement sont
juxtaposables aux activites Tests.
- 9.529 FCFA par hectare pour les Actions Novatrices (soit 1.906 F/HlI
par an) ou seule la vulgarisation a 4th men4e, sur la baLse des
resultats issus des Actions Tests.
- 33.302 FCFA par hectare pour les Acticns  abiutellement uenees
par ia structure d'encadrement (soit 6.661 F/Ha/an).
1eres C00CLUSIONS :
- Importance des Actions Tests :
A un coOt/ha sensiblement equivalent 8 celui-d'une structure tradition-
nelle, elles permettent ;
- de mettre en place des investissements d'envergure
- de mettre en place une m6thode d'approche du poysan (of strat6gle
du PACO)
- de diminuer les cotts de ltancadreamt de teTaSn
ONE STRUCTRE NE MEUT ETIE ETICACE A COUT REDUIT, VtIA PARTIR D'uNM
CEUME ADAMR.
- Erficacit des Actions Novatrices :
LI  coit de ces actions est 3 fois et deaS infrieur a calui des action
ue4esd     um cadre traditionnel.
Le taux global dtactivit4 men6es sur  o superfcie reduite (56 Z des
superficies du type traditionnel) devient 82 2 de celles-ci.
.1}
*--. . ...



a                                             Annex 2
(Page 35 of 60)
LA STRA IE M= SUR LA BASE 1ESS-MTSION EN SECTEUR NOVATEUR
DDiE DE MOITIE LE COUT DE LA STFUCTURE DI'ECADMIET:
- Diminution des repenses
- Augmentation des 14alisations
- Le cout global du Projet PACO est de 24.863 lCFA/FA soit 75 Z du cout
constate en traditionmel pur.
2.4 TM-PIEATS TEC51U  VI a X
EUDE COMWARATIVE DES RESULTATS ET COUTS DANS LES 3 TYP  D'ACTIVITES MENI
DE 1983 A 1987.
- Activites menees dans le cadre de la strategie du PACO
- Activites de type Test menhes dans 3 secteurs (ou UAP) du
Projeot, depuis 1983
- Accivites do typo Novateur menes dans 8 secteurs (3 de 1983
-i 1985) ou UAP, du Projet.
- Activit6s .menies dans le cadre de la Structure Traditionnelle
en place & la SATM4CI dans 13 secteuws (18 de 1983 a 1985), et
qu± constituent la r6firence.
Tl faut aettre en 6vidence 1'introduction du systAme 'Format±on-
Visiteos" e 1985 qui a modifi& les donnees en mati4re de "Traditionnel", l't6tide
comparative n'en a que plus d'importance, permettant de situer l'apport do ce
aysteme de vulgarisation.
2.41. Description des Tableaux VII a X
Tableau VII : Pr6sence effective des agents d'encadrement proches du
plinteur (Mositeurs et Conseillers en Gestion des Groupe-
aents) suivant 1. type d'activites.
Tableau VIII: Superficies r6alis6es 80US l'izpulsion de ceo agents, par
agent,   r arze, per type d'activiths.
Deux annees rep res ont 6t6 d6finies, ean 1985 (introduc-
tion du systAe "c17rmation-Visites") et 1987 (fin du Projet)
pour exprimer leas r6sultats toyens per annee.
Tableaux I2:  fl4ments caracteristiques de l'UAP Moyenne de 1985 a 1987.
a) Ncmbre d'UAP ayaut un type d'activit6s Test, Novateuw
cu fradutionn*la dans les 24 UAP du Projet
b) Nombe d' e,ploitations par UAP Moyenne du type conair6
(ligne 2).



9                                               1Annex 2
(Page 36 of 6D)
c) Nombre d'Exploitations effectivement suivies par UAP
Moyenne du type considere. (ligne 3).
d) Taux de suivi, ctest-&-dire rapport des 2 don= es pr6cedentes.
tligne 4).
e) Superficies realisees par tUAP moyenne (ligne5).
f) Nombre d'agents (Moniteurs et .Totaux) dans  ne UAP moyen-
ne du type considere (ligne 6).
g) Nombre d'Exploitations total par agent present (ligne 7).
h) Nombre d'Exploitations effectivement suivies par agent de
terrain (ligne 8).
i) Superficies realisiee dans une UAP moyenne par agent pr6sent
(ligne 9).
J) Moyenne annuelle de r6alisations par agent (ligne 10).
Le tableaux IX. concerne lI'etude en 1985, le tableau X en 1987.
Taux d'ef-ficacite de It"Agent de terrain" (en valeur indiciaire/
TraditMomnel)
Tableau I  : Etude Cot/tEfficacit6, par comperaison & partir de
l'activite dite traditionnelle a laquelle nous attri-
buarons l'ndice 100.
IAs r6alisations annuelles par agent, per type d'acti-
vites ra=ort6es & i'indice Dr4c6dernnt d6fini
d6finissent le taux d'activit6s
lee d6penses par type d'action d4crites dans lea
6tudes DAF pric6dentes, ran=ort6es a l'indice wmcS-
demment d6fini, d4finissent le taux do di,enses ou
"coat" de l'agent.
Le rapport "coat" Agent/RMalUsationst 6l6ment ffna
de toute cette 4tude est d6terzin6e par le rapport
taux d6penses / taux d'activit6s, en prenant pour
base le fait qu'u  moniteur d'une structure tradition-
melle r6alise 100 pcur un coat de 100.
1lanalyse ci-epr&a d6f±nira lea modulations & effec-
tuer.
rA tableau X conerle 1. point technique fait en 1985,
le tableau flI concerne celui fait en 1987.
N.B. : L'6tude seralt couplAte en comparemt ces tableaux a des tableaux siailafre
rhalisa6 & partir des dom4es des autres D.R. de la SANACI.
.1. ./...



AAnnex 2
(Page 37 of 60)
2.42. Analyse des r4sultats
242.1 - Les Actions Tests ont conserv6 sensiblesnt le mie public - cibl
repr6sentant 55 a 60 2 de la popu}ation concernee.
- Dens un premier temps (83-85) le taux do suivi en Actions Novatrces
a permis de toucher le 1/3 de la population (contre 19 Z tradition-
nellement).
- Dns une seconde phase (8587), avec, lintroduction du systiae
Formation-Visites, le taux de suivi sleet stabilise aux alentami
de 65 %
242.2 - Les rialisations effectives exprimOes en superficies out su±1i 18
progression touto diff6rente :
- Progression constante en Actions Tests de 1983 a 1987
- Progression faible des Actions Novatrices jusqu'en 1985 pus
progression Gi,ia04re aux actions tests, a un niveau plus
faible mais essentiellement du au dicalage des annoes de
de.arrage.
Le rythae est le sOme & partir de 1986
- Progression certaine de la Struct-we Traditionn.le avec
l'introduction du syst6me formation-visites masa a um ryth.
moindre qu'en action de type novatowr.
-242.3 - Le taux dteoca rement Otait, avant l'avenement du systime formton
visites de :
1 Moniteur pow  550 paysans (330 suivis) en Actions Tests
1 Moniteur pour 394 psysans (131 suivis) on Actions Novatfress
de d6marrage
1 MNniteur pour 331 paysan (mais seuleoent 63 suivi) on
actions traditionnelles.
- h 1987, apras Stabi2±SBtion du syst&oe formation-visites, ce ta*
eat devo= de:
1 Moniteur pour 500 paysas (275 Uivis) on Actions Test
1 MOnitou poW 370 pay9n   (251 sUvis) an Actions Novatrims
I Moniteur pour 263 ,asmons (164 siavis) an Actiopa Tradit&m--
*      uol.l.s odA le systime formation-visites ests plquk&_itig -
loment.
~~~~~~~~~~~~. . .1.



Annex 2
(Page 38 of 60)
?.2.4 - Arutilemant les realisatlons par agent 4taient de :
483 ha en 85 pour les actions tests
125 ha en 85 pour le3 actions novatrices
101 ha en 85 pour les actions traditionnelies
- 1987, ces realisations ont evolu6s de la fagon suivante :
Stabilite des realisations en actions tests (490 ha)
Rhalisations doublees en actions novatrices (270 ha)
B4alisations & peine augment6es en actions traditionnelles
(128 ba)
2&mes CONCLUSIONS :
Maintien constant du taux d'activit6s et du taux de r6alisations des
Actions Tests tout au long de la duree du Projet.
Decollage des activites et r6alisations novatrices en 1985 pour
uiuvre une progression pararlale a celle obtenue en actions Tests.
Activites traditionnelles constamment en retrait, malgr4 une
am6lioration certaine due a' l'introduction du systeme formation
visites.
Zuportance de la filiire logistique, matArialis6e sur le terrain
par la presence de C.G.I., permettaut aux pesans de voir leurs
trava=x agricoles mieux soutenus par un approvisionnement mieux
adapt6.
242-5 - L'analyse ci-dessous a pour but de situer, en fin de Projet, le
taux d'activit6s des agents dans cbaque tjpe d'intervention, et
d'en 6tudier le coat.
- Pour un indice 100, base de r4ire pour l'action traditionaefle,
le taix d'act±vit6s (hecteres r6alis6s per ur agent pendant tout
lB Projet) et de s
476,3 on 1985 pour Ie t F  d6fini co=e actions tests
123,8 en 1985 pour 1e type d6fini comme actions novatrices
382,5 en 1987 pour le tgpe d6fi±i  comse actions teats
210,9 en 1987 pow le type d4tfni come actions novatrices
Ie tazx d'activtfit  global du Projet 6tait respectivegent de 139,6
et 151,2 en 1985 et 1987.
.../.. .



Annex 2
(Page 39 of 60)
- Pour un memo indice de 100, base de repere en actions tradi-
tionnelles, le ttux de d6penses par hectare est de :
42,4 en 1985 et 101,8 en 1987 pour les Actions Tests
l'augmentation est due aux r4alisations en matiere de Ginie
Civil (pistes, points d'eau et construction de vil1as UlP).
33,6 et 28,6 pour les actions novatrices
3ehe CONCLUSION
Le cout par hectare realise de laction novatrice est 3 fois maimn cire
que dans une actions de type traditionnel. Les r6alisations sont deux fois plus
importantes.
De meme le taux de depenses par agent est de :
302,5 en 1985 et 430,2 en 1987 pour les activites tests
93,2 en 1985 et 80,3 en 1987 pour les activit4s novatriceo
pour des taux d'activites sup6rieures a ceux enr6gistr6s
en traditionnels.
4&me CONCLUSION
Le coat par agent de l1action novatrices est inf6rieure (80 Z) & ce -A
de l'action traditionmelle pour la duree total. du Projet.
Le cout par agent de l'activit6 test est nettement sup6rieur (4 fois Plus)
mais le niveau d'ittivit6 a suivi ce coat (4 fois plus), lequel prend en caote
des activites de Recherche-D6veloppement et de GUnie-Civil.
242.6 CONCLUSION C-EtTEALE :
Le rapport coat de l'agent/realisat4ons de l'agent (indice
100 en actions traditionnelles) est de :
112,4 pour la dur6e du Projet pour lea ac-ivites tests
38,1 pour les actions novatrices
Done en fin de Projet il a 6te mis en ;lace une structure
d'eneadrement a fort taux d'activit6s, a cou.t reduit.
Globalement le PACO ne coaite que 80 % du coat dtune action purement tra-
ditionnolle.
.. .1...



Annex 2
(Page 40 of 60)
L'nverse de ce rapport peut etro deftni comme le taIux d'ef  ac   du
Encadrement traditionel         100
Bicadrement mis t.i place    : 262,4
E1arement PACO (tout confcndtv): 123,7
,.1S..



Arnnex 2
(Page 41 of 60)
A N N E X E S 1
TABLrAUX  FINANCI$S
I



CLEFS E  lREPARTITIU                                       Ane to"
$                        INDICATES            INOVAIEUt    I  TEST    TRADITION.       AtP   IACT TESt I        lLt M    OIITII    I:=C       WE l l JI   I   CAC    I  CI11     ItIECTI SI
g . . -                                                                                                                                                      .--- -----  ---1--.----- :-----..-..--...-:  I .---. I 
:ArP             cCOatRel enI *               J    t       :           :00 t       :      IO   I           S                                                          1      
1         -*T                                      I      1                 I .           log
-------- :.............. I--------- ------ --:----                                              -  |-------- -t --- ---- .....                 .....                   .....  .... . 
ACTIONS TESTS ,Coot  iel  en I                 I            :     IOO               I                  t o                   I I                                      S           I
---------- -    ......                                                                      ...................... ........... I--t--.--- I--------- I--------- ----- I--------- -------- 1 --- I  I   . .  t .
'ALC             :NombuedeCGG                  I            I          I            I       to:t         *         221             :          I           I            I           I           J
................... .............. ......                             -             -          ------ .                  ..------ .                                   I.............
FGRoTIGN          WEIIctif fortm               I           I                        I      282 1        n 2        351        4  01        IT 1       42 1          o I            I           I
...............j  --I
:  -   - - :--..................           .......... --- ------- -w---- ----- I---------SI--------- I-------   I----- I-- - --                        ...  . ..I....
:iEC" KUM                                      S     .     S :e                     :           : I  I                 t I            I       S I         I           I            I          I
--------------:--t------------------*--X--I -w-----I-:-----*--- --------- :----*-----------*-*-- ........ -........I........I....... --- S-----^--                                   .....~--*w  .
1!UIVIIEVAL       Planleuts sulvsDOt    :            3358C       3066:    19203:                                       I :  S                 1   25C261              1 t                     I
-----  ---:--- :--------------*--*--------- -I............:----:......... :--.......:--------- ----*-                t--- I - ------ --      |-   - 1 - I.....   .....  ......  ......
K0C              htibrg Soulutes pt.dulteg I               1 350.426 1.446.629                 S I                                                  1      17051                  I I
- ~   ..............-........-  --------- ---------SI.... --------- I. ....... I.........                         * -----.....        ---------
MCIHA            :0b1hlnes Atticol.s          :            S                             I                                       S           S            I                  °               .
, . :             .     :..j ..  ..------ ----                           . ..--:-.- .I............. .....---.------It --------- ...
:1IicIcw         1IEectill duFAL              I            I S                            2812:        23S         36 t        5 I        I           4            501 2            ,    40  t1
........ + ---....-.-.--.-.-.------   ......-  ---------- S-----#  -  -----     * :.........--------*-* ........  ......  ..... I......... .........o-- I.... I.......  .......
:MOT ;SEJIENtS:                               :            S                        :          S           I          I           t           S           t      .1               1 I
:Sn.-ends        :665190201                   1            :           S    13300 I            S           I          :           t           t           t           t,                      t
: PuItg          I                           t            S           :            1           1          S           t          t           5           t           I           I! ' 
1tfistes         :3                           S                     31              1          :           )          S           S                             1           1           1
,-"I AgricoIulS Its                                                             i5s I                                                                    111
IA:I  ti M  Io lt 15o                               I           I      :      IS                                                                          I S  S  S  I                        I S  1  :
:.:..                                       . S       --- - .     .   :              .........   --------- .........1......... .........                   ......... ........



- -                                            - - - - - .e n - - - - - ------*   
s    .    ,    .    .    .    .    .    .~~~ a . a                ,a
:           S  :' S        ' l          'l . -' 
.~~~~~~                         ~
.          *    a    a .                    : .  :, .                .    .
~~~~~~~~~~~aa                        .    a                          
:,|,    ,  .    ."'  * a         *          *        *    *
: s:  '    :    : _:    ~~~:    :     : 0:   :                 :       ,
-S   -.                                             - .                         -t  -    .
.~~~~~ _~                                                         _ __   a  a    _____. ___        
X~~~~~                ~~ ,sin aj *,                                     a    a  , , . ,  ,' '
i'2t',~~~~~ 0 'a :    ,    '  ',   i    ,           'j                      '
i f  .    3    2    i    *    .  a    a    a    a          
. - . . . .      *. . .e.   e. ..                 .      uS
i  S ' :  i     i                                                   a     a  ii '        
! -- . - . -  - .  . --  -  aT- . -~~*     . --   --a
* ?5 @ e,  C, g  '  O, g  ';  0 11 ' t  ' ; a    a            a    a
-i    I    I      H                       o I    a    a    a          a 
... -.."  -  -..g  --  -----.--.g---*  a  a                      a.
(09~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a° at                         a    aIa)
Z Y>UUv                                      St~   a~



C 
CLDS ! .NITITI-
S               I       INDICATElS          IlNATBI  I TEST   ITRITIO.:  AT     tACT  TESt I   ILC   IFOATIUUCH KaiS SI6I  I   CIC   I  CIN                             hDIT IIhh
........ I............. I......  I..... -.....  I-----*---- I---*---t**- --------j- t---I- -- --*----Ig------------ --|-------I-t--|--- - -  
C I          Sl  t1CotRikOhl *n I           I    I      I                       S          1001         I t      I                     J          I        _                         I
:                           -I.................................. . I ... I- --------I.                                                  -.................I.  .   t t ---- -- ----
WOW1"  TEST  :Coff  Rhl on I                I           It oo0  t              I          :,         toot        I          I                      I                
tIALC           INosbte d  CCt              I           I          I           I                   51        33 1                      1          1           1I                     1
.       .        . I --- --------------. ..     ---.. -I---- ---- I --------- I.........              *-.--..-... -------. .........I..       .--*---.*--.-
:IoTIuN         sElectit for.               I           I          I           1      2162           1       56I       49  1       24 1       31 1           1           1 I
.-........-..... ........................ ------- I......... --. ........ ......... ---- I.........I. I-                                           ......... I.... ..... ----.-._-
:EcR IE 1LCov:OcO    i1 en I                      I                                       I :  S    1001         I          I     100 ot                I      
I...............t------------------------ ......... I.. . .          --        --I------- I......... I.. . .....I......... I......---.        -..I. ...-.. .I...- .            ..-...I
SUIVIIEVAL    IPInteuhs sulvis DOT    I           05021    3962 I    20619            1611 t      44U           1                      1   330031            1           t '        I
............. 1.....................
,,ic It0Cbto wtutes ptdultnu1   554600   653 I20   1S516101                               t                     S          S                      1 231000 t             I
-----            . -                       I........ I.----       I--------- -. -: ------ ---I---- -------- -.- II-.
CINA            1IIaehIugAgrcoIn           :           :    17*:SI:I I    10  4111                                                                                                 I
----------- I------------------S-------  -------S-------------  .......  ------ t------- -------  -.......I.......                                                     .....
IDIIIECtiON     MIlecIl tu PACO             I                                  :     26:1            1       561         a 1       24 I        71        100 I           t     5 01 I
I---:.--------- g---------------      --- ---------  .......   -.- ......._              .            ...     ......  _,          . .   .... . ...
:AHUIsslnEs:                      .           I         s          :           :          I          :                                            a :  :                            1   
ls Foods    .24068140S                     1                 1    14.31                              1          *          1          1           I                       
:.Fit$         12136                                   1    21                1          1          1          1          1          1           3          2           1 t
:-tlS$         .117                                     I     1II              I          1          I          1          2          I 
2-NIE Alfile   t11211                       I*                  1 '"          1           1          1          1    2                1         4       4
:-111 Equi11189631                               :I I            I:                       I          1          1          10M        1           I          1           1 7        1
........ t.... l........--------- s---------S -----   -----  .. . ... I.....  .....  ....    ....  .........
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~$S--- ---:----- -: $--.-  ............... .....  I.._...  ... . ...   ........._|_ ......... . ....... ........  ----- - --- ----



84                                                                                   afSu u wnmm                                           L^-1K I
S                      i.oicauun          13034 11   I 111 g ItINTIN.I  LIV    SCI 13! t lMS   INATIMUKMIt                           URI 3   I   C    I  CIIA   I11U961
S-. . . . -                    -       -*--*-.....  . --   -  - -------    -*----.-......*         1       I. ..
S1              Koot URI.ts                    I      I I                   I     lot IOD 1      I         I          I          I         S                I          I
I....- -- ------S----- ---........         .....  t.  ...-- ----S--  ------- S''''t''''t''' '''~t*- ISt......... . .......I.. ......I.... ....-----I.... .... ............   
IACIOS TESTS ICeSt lib  #a I              I           I     100 I                     I      1001          I                    I          I          I          I         I
.......... ...........                                     ........       . ....        .   ......    ....  ...-- - ----- ------   I.       I.
ItLC            .Kube e CG6               I                     I S         S      261        a 1       321           1          J          I          I          1         1
.............................i....    ..........  .            I           .         ,   . ...............   . 1                       . --- - ----             ... . ...
IfOhIhIUN       itIecti tlorsl            I           I         I           1     12t1      1411        551:       13 1      231           1      1211            1         1
I............... :........................I----- -----...... . .. S---------  -----I - -----I----  .. .:.. I.....-----
:U     tV        WotCeot bel en S         I                I          Il1                       1          I                1o11           1          I          I
.S  --:1----- ---:---1-2--- --:---,------S---1----1-1------------|---*|                                                                                                   *
SEflVIIEVIL    t:Plntuts   isv Olligt    1    13710 1    3921I    22549 S             S         S          I                                                                I
tCUC            tUb. hutwe  pebi1s 1 515.636 1 171.319 iX.530.819                                                               I          1 322313 1            1          I
-------I... ................... _----   I .........----- I........  .....                            _     .........                                  --------
.CIIA           WcI.es*grle.e :                      1  17351         265                          I                  1                               I    43931            1
........ t.            ......... -----------  ..... .--                 . ..-.-.             --------- -I---------t.....  . ... --- ----S|- Stt          
SOI5IIEO        tEIftit duofC             1          1          :           2     126 1     1471        S  I       31        23 1       3  1      1211**         1     522J
........     .:.. ----- :- ---- ------- -  ....... I... _.                        . 1_......    1.
:UUO3ISSEIIEIIISI                              t    1                      I S                             1                    1          1 S-                  1          1
:-horaws f     1 671s205                  1          S I            76.3141           1         I          I         S          S          I          t          S         S
1-hilt         12066                                 a   28661             1          1         S          I         :          2          1          I       .            1
-P lstes       15S311                    t           15 5311               1          2 I       J          J         S          I          t          t                    I
:-XllA SgteleeII9I                        1          I    IM:         26581 S         S         S          I         :          I                                 
11N 1quipmet:634I                                         I                I          S    I                   1 23751          1     SO  1      43 1            1    29    1
t...     .. I.....................-..------- I---------:1---  ---- :-I.........I... .....                 ... .... -- -.   -----
INT SIIU AMT. 17513                      1S                            t        I    I  I      I                                     I  
...             I           _.2.... ...  .... ... . ....1... .      ...........-. .............---



CLEFtfS O    AIMT11N                                        £.     107
t° - ,,, ~~...,,,,,........... ............... ............ .................... ................. ............ ..................... ...,,,,,,, .......... ......................._.,.... _..  
1        :               : IIDICAtEURS          I NOVAPJM    1  TMST    17lI T1O.1   ATV          ICT TESt   5  ALC    IFwUATIONMECK O     E IEC  sDVl       I(II81   C J  I CII I
ATP                 ootRtAel on iI                       2 I                         1       100 I  I  o                  II                                   I                       I           I
: --------------- ........................... .........  ......... --------- I--------- I--------- ;--------- --------- --------- --------- I--------- I---------............. _ I__......._._........  I
:ACTIONS TESTS  Cool Ihi  en I                              I       too        :                  t      lOO I            I           t           t                        I I               I
'ILC                                           1            1tt  de Ms  t  It                 27 U* 4                 31l             :           ( t                      S           S I
----------S-:---- I........................             -   S-------:----.. I..........-------**--  *---:------ ......:--*----- ---------- I----- - - I...... I..... I.. . ...J
IFORIAtIION       iEfiectif looim                            2    :     1                      1761      14061        52         513:         231         40 1        1341             1 :
I----------*-:--------- ................. .........I......... .........  ----.-- -------- _I ............                      ---- _........ ... ---------.. I---------......... .I_.  _._._1..... _--- -------S
JIECH BE.ELPt    oot Riel on *                 :                        I                        t       IW 0                         t      100t             I           t            I           t
.-............. ----        ----------:-- --------- ----- .-. .......-------------                ....I-... ----   I -- :- --- ------- I-                                 - 
ISUIVIIEVAL       :lanteuts suivis DOT         I    15066  1    4316:         24119              :           t           :           I            1   44221 1                S
1---.---- ---- :--------- ---           --------- :........ :--..          ------ :-----  ------------.........-----------------   I                    ---   I-  -               - S
:csc             INbte  aoutues produltes :1.314.025:  347.171 :2.071.829                                                            1 :  S                  : S 3733025 1            1           1
Machines Agriceles  I  low         5511I                                                 . 9 . 9
I  I  p          I           p~~~~~~~~~~~I   3
.- -----.--------.-----------.----------- -- :.........           ---------         :---------:----------------:..            -    --- -I
'OIRECTION        Electtf du PACO             :I            I6:     U14: 521                                                                 23 1        40          134 i                   5S0S
:                                              I     .-- - --:-- --------------- -.:--.--.:--- -   -: ---  ... ....... ---:- -     - -... :-  -:- -                   --   . . . .
WIORtlSSEEwhTS:                                I            :           :            :           :           :           :           :           :           t            S           :
'-11s fonds      1428569420%                  It                            0 :    5.714:        :           :           :           :           :           S
1-Pults          :3635                         :            1    3635:               :           :           :           :           J                                    1           S
1-Pistes         p69395                                     I6935                    :           :           :           :                                   I            t           t I
:-II Agticole   :1377                                             1860 S        5S7:             :           :           :                       1 J         I                        1 S
:-ltl Equlp.asnt16383                          1                                                                         : 1  1    1    23821    I      53S1        4901              1    2961
:... -                                                                                                            .........-------.---------------  ------  ---     ------   --   --  I-- -  -. . :..  .. . .  .  ......
iAJTES ANORT. 191342                           I S          I s       IS                                                 I                       I 1 :  :  :
.---.--         - I. :                                      :            :           :           S           S           :           :           S             .



-rl                                            Annex 2
(Page 47 of 60)
_~~~~4         4         . ..  .. _-           .     -- -  G  G   b~
- -    *- -  - - - - -                   * - -- - - - -
9  X                           8       R                       "    |   .        t,
1  2                       *                               1~~~~~~~~~~~~~L 
| ~  ~     ~     ~     = a  ----- ----s------------- -- ------__                           _
U g   i   t- .-   , - --- ------------------------ - -
*.- -                     -                                   ...- -----------
F    3t  C   i                                                          FS'
----        -  ,,-,,-,,-P- -- -----                              ,       - I
5   "  '  '          ',  '                                               _             '   |a     . 
t ~                   a td            g                                              3t-  ;j
lIi:  -             a~~~      ~     ~ ~ -    - --C      - -  -----------
a                       a--------l----  -------------------.---  -
-      -        - - - :   --- - -  -   -  -   -   -   -    -
t~~~ad .                                                          asiE;Si      
- - -                r-------- -----                     -           - -             j     
-------  -.-----------------w-----------p---                                                   ',
Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~
3                  a---- -  -  -  -  -  -  -                                             -   3
_ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _   _ _   _ _  -_    _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _      ___



ViI                                          Annex 2
(Page 48 of 60)
_~~~~ -   -   -   -   -           -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -    *-   - -  -_      
*_-           -.... .. _.   -------                      ---------------
u2[  .gi-ge         .i  _gZg :               _tY                                    | F   i
-- -_ _     ---- , -----                      ------------                    -- ------
7-9'                                              t    I
-                   ,----- -- -   -      -     ------------- -.                         4-
------- -                         -                    - - ----------------------------
g { -  -  -  -  -  -  - -  -  - - -  - z  - - - - - - - - - - * - - - - - - - - *o * - - - - - - -    - - -  - -- 
*              4                 44  4                                                               4   4      ** s *
* S                     ,44                  
~~~~~~~~~~*          4      o                                                  _4___ *___ __-i    
*o H                         i-t                                                             i y     X 
__ __ ---- -s -----------------------                                               a 
s   i            .   t                 Y                X     X   S              X~~*     *  4
t;T-------i---------;-------3-------:-----"--s
§---------- - ----------------------------, I
t:I------- Ii                                       -  --- -- -------- - - - -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*  m
rn
II     ig:                                   I                I                              ISS
:_______-_-:-___-_-_-_- __ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ _
Sc~~~-   -
P*   P
-    --    ---    --       ---;--- -                ------             



Annex 2
(Page 49 of 60)
0  - i  5                                                       a ? ? 2 w S 3 i § =
I              =    -0            - -                                a     
_-*                       -         £--
a         .51z.
--     -  --   -  --   -   --   -   -  --   -  --   - --   -   -  ---   *2   -
Le , :                                             r-TT  
ge ~   ~    4 :  2;    &  , ;|E.                            Liyv        s:
*                                                      a~~~~~ 
=   : -:                          a                          U- -  *  a---- --- -.-- --:
§    £  :;2         E;           t
t -  --               -                                     -
-2    i  .!s"s                   o                           t                   g 
5-   ^  .            ai               i                                         aX       kg.*  a '.
U~~~~~~~~~~ . t                                                           a .  
-   *  "  .      ' o .                           X        ^ W4  a           . '  i   R
ni  3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i
ii         4,                                      !"~~~~~~D   U
_   ,   ,                                                                       - ,, , **  : * 
- -   -  -   - -  -  -   -  - -  -   -  -   - -  -  ---       -~
5~ ~ - .              '                                                   a-  ,    
:_____-________ - _- _-_-_-- -- _- ___- _________:           I
*  a           *    3                                 a-  3-    - -
*  *                                         -3    0 ¢-      
* ~           3              t             o    0  3            2  ::  : 
*  S           S  :                                                     S      '
_ _       _      a                _                     I           I _   i_i   _s 
*  s           So !                            0                          : 3 
___    __________    _______
1 1 s^S    !                  !                                     1"~4 



Annex 2
(Page 50 of 60)
_~~~~ a                                             -. _            _._  
§Xs  _$                 - ---- ---                 ---  ---- --- -- --- --
1.                                                 0 i&  2-
} B sg  gs  I                                                                              - ss3Xa.   .
-------~~---- - - -- - - -- - -
_ T -  _, - - -   -               ,, - - - - - - - - -s                      
- 0y
_-   - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -
-                             a- - - - - - - - - -                            -                                T
S~~~~ _                      a                     _                                                     s.    9      
-   X   X  s         ,      - -    - - - - - -     - - - - -     - - - - - -      - - - - -    - -, -
_ -   - 2                                   -       -                    - - - -
.~~~~~~ - - - - -- - -- - -_ - - - -_ - -  
"~~'  QUE,                                                           t!_  
9 t                         - -                                                -- - - -  -.   ; 
-:      ,         .    : ---- - --- - ----
!                                                                           t -  t -:- j-- -
:   |          ,,  ,                      .,.  ._                                               .   .
1Sl o: _  __     _ i'  t
*99s----X-T---------------- - --- - -                            - -. -    t
_______  _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



Annex 2
(Page 51 of 60)
2.6 ', A.                                  .
5[~~~~~~H F ig5 §    -*    gQwaEj  
------                ---''-     ------   -------------------
s~~~~~~~ -  -     -  -    -    --    ,, -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -,-,-    -   -    -   --  -    .. - -,
*   j,ia,3             p                        at          VMS
Z-0   6;p;..~*         .. 
8 a---                 --     - - - - - - .      - --E--
a            -    -     -- -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -      -    -   -    -
* , _, _ _ _   *-   ,   _ _fl -_  *                                     -_-_-                       _ ___ * - -
i~~~ a    ia                         i s   .m - a'                                                     :             .4gu
,ab,                                                                                              ,      ..  . ..__._._         
~~~L'I~~L
-   *i                                                    o -                ji - - - I
3                      *   .                                                                         ,   I*       a
- - - - - - - - - - E
z    s       -     -                           - - - - - - -
."~~~~~~~ ~~                          ~ ~~~~~~                                   * I°o  t  S  El in" 
~~~-----------*    -                       ---- -                  -                                        U    
i   tt  o  i 8 §*gSg g j , ,Ii:
.,   ,a  SS          I                                                                                     3J ! I< i s
p  i        _      3o a                                                                                    3i
ssI               "s|ig   9  
*s  E              3SjI .ss  ,s                                                                  s I;   s
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _     _ _    _ _ _     _ _    _ _       _ _     _ _



Annex 2
(Page 52 of 60)
A N N E X E S 2
TrABLEAUX  TECHIQUES



I}                                  ~~~~~~~~Annex 2
-                      ~~~~~~(Page 53 of 60)
_ .-s,           r       C        '-*.[..st
.~~ ,        .    , . .
f     .        . .   -        ..
'-'  ,       ,,   .       ,    
*   I -S         .g S   ;.             .
i;t,~~ .; t ,
.      .   .         3 . '..
,,                   C''
.,  .,  '            ,       .    ,    .   S
.--.-.a-    -.   t   t        .  t
,* S    8       : ,              : :4
£   I-.9 *                 E: t S1
S  .              CCiO,S    .   a..'t  
a . a Cati a   . T 
!               .s "   T   :ei   :  T
i   i' S        S        i 
i       aCT  ao       i"       t 
i  a:   :    io    :   :8:          '
*  *    *  55.....-    *      . e      ...... 



Annex 2
(Page 54 of 60)
-a  .a     t          t    '4            - ! . R  . L
ji                       E  .F   le.
-         ; i  '    '    - ;-'--------
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - - - - - - - - - - - - -  *s- -*-*    --|--|--       
ro                          *                                  le  42  -  * f t  _ a  * irt 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -........... ....................... - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -.,- 
_    a     a _4 _                              zg__  : _ -_s   _;s
.-                     a*-a --   -:- -   -- - :--
, --        ..........................     ....S..:         a       2
d32 *,|' sg3a,§I3  0 
:    :~  _:        3    :      , 
r3{i la  ' g{' l  i§g, g 
.    s           a $ _- --
ts 1182 13RlE31 §ggtw=l ''13|lt D~~~~~~~~~~~.4
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 



t: o                                                             COUWS AU1WLS PAR TYPE D'ENCAISIET
4  t                                                              DE SUELOIIE9 CR176895 CIAICTUISTIWEUS
T a1 1 A8DEE 195
°4,   ?1 9 0 5            : TESTS  11NOVAWRICES1T1ADITIUlNI   PACW           I  CWUIL 63-es       I tEm    INOVARICESIMRITIO            PACO   I
. . . . . .:. .... . . .1. . . . . .  - - - - - - - - - - - - - S     -    -    - -        -        I---
uIIIPLOITfTION hISS       7600 S   21125 1   379D0 1   66625 1         III/EIVLWITATIO EUISI      7600      21125 1   37900 1   66625 1
Couts Rots AIort      33478 1   10967       183201    17718 t       I  Covts Hns Amort I   9124S :   23165 1   63101 1   53652 I
Cowts Avec A ort 2   36097 1   11826 1   19754 1   19104 :              Couts Avoc Mort I   97245 1   24751 :   6751I 1    57140 I
. . . . .-           ---------- : -  ---- S------- I----------I----------  - --------------- I---------- I        :...t....
12J1A EUISt1Nt      S   52060 :  144700 1  259615 1  456375           :12/HU EIlSTAo t     I   520601   144700 t  9566is S  456375 1
Ctots Hotn Asomt 1     4981 :      1601 2     2674 1     2587       :  Coots Hors Aortl   13320 1         3382 1      9213       1T33 
Couts Aec Asort l      5210 :      172 1      2884 ?     2789 :     :  Couts Awech oAlt     14196 1        3613 1     9603 t     6342 1
......-.... -       1 .......... !.....-- *  -------- I------ ---      I------------- -*-------:--       ...... I.. . ...
211PLUIEUM  nc PRO:       4567 1    7025 1       1216 a   18808 :      :21/PLIAEUI avec ?101      4S61 I    7025 1    7216  S1BN I
Coats Hots Ao  1tt    55710 :   32980 I   96221 1   62763 :         I  Couts Hors Asout 1  151843 1   69660 1  331454 1  1O007 I
CoUIs IeV  Anort 1   60070 :   35551 1  103751 1   67675                Coots Aves Jart 1  161827 1   74429 1  352693 1  202412 1
                   ------ ---- I-- ----   -                -       -- - -                                    I--   ---- t     ..... I
>        22/1 9UIVI           1   31264 1    48121 1    4430 1   1288351     122111A 91Vt1            1   31263       4 121 1    49429 1   12B833 1
Cutls Rors Asent :    8133 :    4815 1   14047 :    9162            I  Coots Hon AMort 1   22167 :   10169 I   438  1   27746 1
Couls bec Aort 1    87690        51011    151461     988o              Couls Avec A ott I   236251    10664 :   5146 91    29550 
..---------  ------ ------ --------- -------                           ----------I.... . ..... ........ ... I------- I---- - -- I  ......  .S..l.. 
31IA IREALISE             9U1 9841  ISM 1      22683       49308 1     :3111IEALISE        1  748906    539641 1  25677191  3s6271 
Coots Rot Anort       25854 1    13804     30610 1    23940 1       :  Coots  mrs Asort         9 0261     9071       831 1       9271 
Couts leCA  AOrt 1   2771 :    148841    33006 :   25814            I  Coots Auec Avetl        s9871       969 t      991 1      971 
                                   *--*-----  *--------- :----------  --------S  I--------------------  ------------- --   ..
4I1AGET TEll. MNITI,        161        60 1      1521       226 :      14/ACGENT tER3. 0ONIT:       16 :       601       152        220 1
Couls Hor AMort 1 1901813 :3861433.3 1461913,1 :5173991 1    :  Couts Rts Amrtl 1 43341563 18156033,3 : 15735322 1 I70053 1
Costs bwec A2rt : 17 US250 :4163616,7 14925453,0 15582570,2         I  Coots bee Asont 1 4191563 1 0714350: 1673650  116607202 1
             ----------I------      -     - -----  - I.....      :...........         ------- ---------                  --
42/AGT ?M.ERL NCGG3         221        71 :      183 1      276        142/AGENT TEM.  CCGI         221        711       183 1       2761 
Cots Hors Msort I IlS64955 13263183.1 13794163,9 :4276981,9         I :  Coats Hors Arot 1 31521136 :6892422,5 1 1306971  1 12951435 I
CWals Asec Aott : 12470000 :35159,3 14091081,4 14611688,4 1             Coats hoee Mart 1 33593864 17364239,4 1 139073011 13393341 1
...........-- :- S----------- I- -------- I.........                -- -I-----I.                                       . t     ---1-.    S
C1A                     254429    23686       694332    1180447           CH                    693465    409362    2391769   S514896
CAI                     274340    249817      748669    1272626           CAA                   739065    522861    2545036    3B06962



,                                                            DE ODILSES CRII1ES CAmAtRISIs
M4 V AWIE! 1986
1 0 a 6           1  EstS    3VATRlaC SI DtlUIN1   tACO   I          I CUWUL  -06         1 113T3    NOAUIRCES:IRAITIuEI   PACO   1
1I/EVPWITATIO  EX155      7625 S   21650 1   300 1   66275 I           II1/EU OIIATION EIISt       65  1   21650 1   316001    66213 I
C ts ftu s i u ttu    642401 S      441t    156141    16596 S       S  Couts Ibn Auot    1 526621    30040           7 ?72571    1 62 
CogLts Avec Aort      67641   "163 1    16491    19M639 I               CoWts AV w ott   162290 1    32013           6 OM201    1 391 
121HA WISAT         1   563451   1558801   279360         491560 I     SWHA E115T1lt        I   563401   155611110    2M60    49 U1560 1
Couts ets uAmout       8922 1      1034 1     2169 1     25031      1  Cduts Nes ItA t      21231 1       4173S  107391     OMt
Cits lec lsoft 1       9422:    21092         22 01      2126?      S  CoUts vecA A t     22540 1         4446 1    114001    10472 
.- --.              - -       :        :--: -                   -      --- I-- ----- S-- - ---------------- I
21PLAJ,J  avec MI,    4476          1089 1    13942       26909    121pLAWJ  gm  MI    4418 1    10469 1    13942 1   20  1
Coots  uig Asort 1   112255:   1536 1    43452         43920?       I  Couts lhts Aloft 1   6t116 1   62022 1   21500I 16101  I
Couts Avc Aort    115S47?    16229:   456871    46381:              I  Couts Avec Asot    23590     660771   22321   170601
......................  -    - -        - -I..........                 ..... ...... ......... I-- -- -----        4----*----4%t......... -  ..S..
*     2I20A SUIVI   :        32241,6:  75520,B I 100362,4 1 206144,6         :22/HA SUIVI   S          32242 1   155211   1003I           206145 I
Coots HNms Aloft      15591        2134 S    6035 I    6100: 1          Costs Noes Avert 1   39   1    6614 I   29162 1   23214 1
Couts Ayes Asort      16465       2254 1    6373 1    6442 1        1  Couts Ayes Asott 1   3961          9171 1   31727 1   232 I
------------------1- ---------:--------------I.    .         -. :     :------               . .      .* * .    .  .. . .. S. .          t- 1
3HINA REALISE       1    14134 1   37763 1   3607 1   68504 S          131/lA f' .ISE       1   4IS26 1   62176 1    M7666 1   160270 I
Couts Bois Asot 1    355656       426 1    165491    14346:         :  Cwsts Hts Aurtl    26 6  1    104631    391501    2672 1
Couts Aves Aao,t I   3759         450:    17406 1   15150 1             Couts Ayes Aurt 1   30561:    11147         41595 S   26556 1
----~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~..... -..... ------------:--------------   - :---------- ---------S---- I......-- ---- ---S----------S-----......
CuA                   502680     161190    605805    1269675            CIA                  1196145     65065     27574        271
CM S302                        170224    639757    1340633            Cm                   12691?    63085    31641         514179



cafs  NOELS ?a  11F *'BiCAOI
K 4ILU   CRIMES CAl   TISTIS
za                                                       zsu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lelel
t      TA 1      ff1 £9 67
too?8             I : TM      :mOICiTaOTuu:   rwo   I                   I OM        W         TES   IkWVATRICESIIADITION11         O t
........... .... I"....t,,,..... . ..t.,.......I......,,,.... I.......... I  I,............ ,,,_........         ------ I,..........
114VELOItAtIO  EXISt       1950      22250 1   2960  1   70090 1 S 11/EXUIAIION 51IS1               7951    222501    390 1          00
Couts  os AJoot1    65030J1        947S I    £M91    20182 1         I   Cts Her Aott1I   21541    367131    925251                9361 S
Couts AcJbor St   692221    100 61    1316 1    21483 1              1  Covts Ave  Aort I   19601           123t 1     6336 1    060231
...._-                                                                  1.......                  --._ ............ I---------  . I- ------  _    _  . .......... ----1--.
121HA EXISTAIT       1   59625:   166875 1  29500 1  5250001            51211UAEISAT               5962S    I  166875 1   298500:   5500 1
'.ouls Hos Aloft I      671        1263       2295 I    2091         1  Couts NosA Aott 1   20732:    5162 1    12331:   11916 I
Couts &vc itout l      9230        1345 1    2442 1      2U04        I  Couts Avuc Aurt I   305281          5 98     13112 1    12670 1
***,*---------*-**-- *        * - ----------- I.......... I..........I........  I .          I        -------1I _-------  --------- -  I
2it7UR1ER awc poo.:   4376 1    1S066 1   24179 1   44221 1             121aPLANIEUR ave. PO1:     4370 1    15066     247 91    44221 £
COUts Hots Alott 1  118141 1    13993 1   27641 1   31947            I S  Coats Hots Asort I  391464 1   57173 1    4613 S   £41494 |
Couts Avec Aeot I   125n58 1    14695 I   29423 1   34006    I  :  Coots Avec Amort 1  415958 1   60696 1   1575 I    150417 1
..- -            - . .-.---------s ..........I..........    ....        ------------------S--....---------------I--------I         .     I
221HA SUIVl         :   32820 :   113000 1  165642 1  331682 I          :22/HA SUIVI         1   32020 1  113000 1   165642 1  331662 1
4     Cootslfors Asotl       15752 I      1666 1     3685 1     42591      I  Lous Honer  Atl 1   52193        1    23 1    1981S       1906B I
Couts Avec  uott S    16768 :      1986 1     3923 1      45341      1  Couts Ave Abott:   55411            6 119 1    21060 1    20055 1
-................... I---------- I.......... I..........I----------.. I  I.................... I.. . ......I.......... I........---.-.-I-
31/BA REALISE       I    12186 I    34109 1   40961 I   61256 1         131/HA REALISE       t 13712          9 56261   117271 i  267520 £
Coats Hots Atsrt I   42425 I    6161 1   16721 I   16190 1           1  Coots Hots Asot I   31895 I    6046 1   3133) 1   23368 1
Couts Ace¢ Atort I   45160S        6579 1    17991    17234          1  Ceots Asec Iort 1   33891           9629 1   33302 1      48631 
.... ....                . ......                                S     I.....    -  -   I- -- I... ....... I  - -- --- _  _ . -   I- -- I
41/ACE  tERI. N TOItITo 161             601       152        2261       141/AG  NTlERI. MOITI        161        60 1       £t 1       226 I
Coots Hots Asott t 32311608  3513616,7 14S5586,1 I 61961141          1  Couts HorNs Aot 1107070150 1 14356150 1 242268    1 2442917 
Coats Avec Aslt 1 34394680 13T140133,3 14796473,?1  6 595557 1       1  Couts Avec Auott 111316400 1 15231550 1 25749059 1 23113605 I
                    I         I.       .      .               I      1.1--.------------- I...... -..I --- ------I.......... I--  -- .  . .
42/AGEIT TEU. NI#UGG         221        i1t1      1631       2761     142I6AEIIT EMR. NCCG           221         7 1       163 1      21 1
Cwts ots  sort 1 234940  12969253,5 13742611,6    5118629 1          1  Coots Hots Asart 1 77869     1 12131951 I 20122663  2672    I
Costs bo c   ot 1 25014316 13160676,1 13956.3 15448503.6 1           1  Coats Avoe Asot 1 62137918 11292243? 1 21387197 1 24093   I
                   I-- -- - -------- ---I - - -:  I----I------- I--- I------- --I    SI---------------- --- S------ -I------ - --I-------1S---I......
CtA                   316987      210617    89'910    1412714           6                     1713132      861369    3662484    65805
CAA                   S50315      22440      7294    1503787            CM                    16i2232     917493    3913857    6651 582



';T                                                   Annex 2
(Page 58 of 60)
TAR ViI
UEPARTITION ANIUBLE EFFICACITE
DES A6QltS DE TiRAIN
Agents de    TES   NOVATEUES TRAOITION   PACO
teratin:
1983::
Naittours         14       20       198       232:
COG                         0        le s      z:
1964:                       O        1
llni tours        14       30       206       250 1
COG                A        u        i8        33
1985:
Nanlteurs         14       54       115       1833
Coo                                  1 1  17   33:
1986:
Roaltis           14       54       115       163
COG                6        11       27        44
1W87::
Nonit urs         16       60       152       228I
CGG                6        11       31        48:
TAB Vil1
RALISATIONS ANNUE TS     O
DES AGENS 0£ TWAI
NA rallins:  ESTEs  NOVATEURS TAODITiNN  PACM
'903t 
Qonlito        229.6      17.9     51.7      59,5:
floui*CG       178.6      17,9     47,4      54,4
1964t:
auit           1024    242.4      34,t    114,6
1a1iSG         79.4      M,4       31,4    101.? I
NaItow         702.9    310,8    197.2    269.4 
RouI.CGG       546.7    258,2    171,8    228,3 1
MAL 85:  (1110PURS amel) )
Nou zm         652.2    234.8       77o0    130I
IsaisOGO       498,0    193,8       89,9    121,9 :
Ncaltur   1001,6    699.3    318,3    483,6 
N.ui4C=        706.7    561,0    257,0.   389,9g
maf teu        71.6    56.8    269,5    382.7 
Icuis          553.9    480.4    223.8    316,1i
TOTAL 67:  (iyae aummt I)
Knitw         748,0    441.7    149,5    253,3:
Ilai*CGG       553.7    387.5    131.0    211.4:



Annex 2
(Page 59 of 60)
Ts IX
ELEIIBiT CARACTERISTIQUE DE L'UAP
KOIDE O 1865 & 97
SITUATION 85                                   SITUATION 67
MA          tESTS  NOVATIURS TAOITIUN   PAM   :            TESTS   0A1U        [TIM  tPMa    I
IPubi:            3        8       13       24 :Noabre-:        3        a       13       24 1
Nb exploits                                   lib exploit
tionslWe       2533     2640     2915     277  :tiowlUAp     2650     Z761      01      291:
lb civis                                      :Nb suivis
.W             1522      87       555      74 :/UAP          1459     1683     191      1U13:
TAU suivl.                                     sTAUX suivi:
,A (           60.1     33,3     19.0    26.2 :/UAP ()       55,1     57.7     623      6.2
Ir tialisus                                   .:K fiulls*
/W(cuaul       9130     3052     3073     3B24 I/UAP..; m4    17104    120I5   g04m    11Ul4
__  ,,, ... _ .................... :
Nb    t                                        a,N" aagets
AW                                            :1:
tauiteus        4.6      6,7      6.6      7.6 :0liteurs      S.3       7,5    11.6      9,S I
ad.G            6.3      6.1     10.l        9 :MI4CGG        7,3       6.9    14,1    11,15 
Nb eploita                                     fib exploit
tiow/agent                                     Rtielsagen                                    I
"twotu        550,    394,0    331.3   365.3 fMoitears    500,0    370,1    263,9    306.9:
?IoUi#CGG     402.1    325,M    288.6    M08,4 :1i'C0        363,0    312,5    217,1    2536,1
Nb exploits                                    IN exploit
iv.iiw/.at                                     :Svivis/age
llatis        330,0    131,0    63.1    103.2 :11uittes    275.3    251,1    1A,3    14.0 1
IoisCG;t      241.6    108,4     55,0    47,1 :houi'CG       199,9    211,6    135,2    160,3 1
Na r"lisis                                     il rilisA                                      I
/ nAge t  Wugsl Uut(cas                                                                       :
Nits         1964      455,5    34M,2    S03,2 Ialtmrs   3378,    1604,7   779,3   1173.3 1
h4C=C        1440,2    376,8    304.3   424,9 hNoaiC        2452.6   1352,2    641,1    9A,2I
Bk auws                                        lil  anuls                                     S
sAmal                                           ftn =*aIsIge                                  I
mllter        661,6    151,6    116,4    167.7 flosits        75,6    320.0    155.9    231,7:
a =GG         463,     1256    101,4    141,6 fta=ICE        490,5    20,4    1232    15.6I
--:                                                                               :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~___________________________________________ 



ix                                               An=e 2
(Page 60 of 60)
TAB 'I
TAUT D'CTIVlS.TAU O DEMMStA     0E1'CA1ME
Di1A9I  i 1111M
(t waltur iudiciaiuitragitiual)
SCWUt  SAUITETIRSM   IIS 85s                      UCOUt AfltTIWlblSATIOMS 87
tIn       1SS IMg    VEMS TITIOU   tACO   :  tAUt    TESTS  NOVATEIRS            TIO t   race
d'ativitUs                                       :d'ativitO
fhr pagt:                                        lIat agents
Ibnitwn        SL4      130.4    100.0    144.1 INmiten        433,5    205.9    100.0    IsO.$
*nOm           476.3    123.S     10.60     39  :Ni.C6         382.5    210.9    100.0    151,2
TAM       TTM  IMOAMIS TAWIIO    tacX   I  TAU             TEST    OVAMS        ITION  tPACO I
__~~~~~~~.____.e.ee,............... _--'-...eee..e....f.......f.....................'''-''''-
PR Ictae:    424         33,6    100.0    G6.5 :hr  o.tu*  101.8          286      100,0     14.7:
M an:          3.2    100.0 1C3.8 W :                  o gts    40.1      60.3    100.0    121.4:
I et lint                                        : A out ap
alisatios    63.5        75.3    100.0      61. Irelintle   112.4         36.1    100 0      80,3 S
: CmOt pa Agt    =T   capit
+ "¢}   >wd   ^et~~~f



Annex 2
(Page 59 of 60)
TAB 1I
EMT CARACTERISTIQUE DE L'U?
iE OE 1985 I   1987
SITUATION as                                    SITUATIMO 8?
VA?         TESTS  NIYATS JAITID     PACO  :W              TST   NVATU  TM l=    Mg   :
=  MuIke:         3        8       13       24 :Moo?:            3        8       13       24 
Nb exploita                                    :Nb exploit                                    :
tiotslU        2533     2640      31S      27  tMonu/UA       2850     27U      3061    2;16
Nb suiviP                                      Atb suivis
/UA            1522      878       555     784 :/UJ           1459     163       1906     14 3
TAUX suivi                                      :TAUX suivi
A  (S          60.1     33.3      19,0     28.4  IUAP (O      55,1     6?,7        3      6G.2:
Ma ralisis                                     :lK tH&Us6
UWA(cuul)      9130     3052      3073     3824 UUAP..mul   170        125       104     11146
Nb agnts                                        #b gts
Nutiteurs       4,6      6,7      0.8       C :11enits         5.3      ?,S      1'         ,S I
lld*            6,3      6.1      0l.1       9 :siG            7,3       6,9    14,1    11,S I
Nb exploits                                    AMb exploit                                    I
tiowusl/et                                       tioseas t
"teomun       550,7   3140    331,3    365.3 flonites    S080,0    370,8    26,    306.95
nelk.         402,1    325,0    288.6    308,4 :Noti+C6=      363,0    312,5    21W,1    2S3,t:
1b exploita                                    NMb eploit
sivis/aget                                      :suiviSlate
outes         330.1    131,0      63,1    103.2 ffoniteu       '..3    251.1    168,3    114.0 
NboniG.       241,6    106,4      55.0     27,1 fttu.l CI6    199,9    211,6    135,2    160,3:
la aaliXs                                '      :611  lish                                     :
laguut(ouui                                     :Pattenuu
mmitm        1984,6    455,S    349,2    503.2 !lhita        3.1   1606,?    179,3   1173,3t
IbdC4        1449,2    376,8    304.3   424,9 MmlonC06    2452,6   1352,2    641,1    i1,2:
lbk usls                                        Hlia an s
u,ml/agPut                                      ti:rbiapa 
Euidts        061,6      Sl,0    116,4    1677 I:lhsitms    675.6    320.I    15.0   236,?7
Usi.CC;       46k3,     125.6    101,4    141,6 'loai*C6G     4W,S    210,4    122,2   t10,6:



Annex 2
tx                                    (P8ge 60 of 60)
TAB *
TA  D'ACTIVITES.TAUX   D£ !1SES.TAU 0'EiFtCACITE
DI a.GI DI ESAA11
(g  eaeur iWAici.uttadit oaiN
scour GElIT SS   65:                    IOT MITREALISATIMU  6
TU        MM   NOICU   IITIOU  PACO           TAT    MST   NOVA S ttl ITIOW   PAM
factiSit                                    XIdn'atlt:
hrf qe8s                                     watr a"t                                     :
fkitgws       566.4   130.4   100.0   14.1 :witen         433.5    M09    100.0   IS.6
£wsi4Gm      476.3    1.6   100.0   139.6 :NaitoG         362.5   210.9    100.0    151,2
___.......O.e..t.....e........t. ...e...e. .f..e.ee..CCeefi-- 
TAUT      MEST  INAV  T?DITIO    tCO   '  TAU         ESTS  KNAMTIUS TIW INO  PAM :
Pat Iwats    44        33.6    10.0    651 :I  beo 10'1,8           26    1000        1x7i
Pat quit:    302.5    932    10.0   1136 .?W SZ4t3   40,1    80,3    10.0    121.4
S cot quit                                   15ma ap:
tlisatious    6.5    15.3   10.0    61.3  uuluit          1124      3.1    10.0    603 S
NB: cO  pW Agrt MI     mais



xb5/e   t        *                                                                                       t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iBRD 16022R
} . '<%, .. +-$b<od^>, {~~~ COTE D'IVOIRE
9 ">i" l 1 ~~~CENTER WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
rt °a .-94 fs -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project boundary                                                           Main roads
{#                       ,5;          oX                      a}   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project headquarters     Other roads
a  <                     ,,              C                   :3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L   Test zones  ~~Rivers
/  t   .>    =              fl                 ?                    ( } ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iDESSA research substattion  1@ Deportwnets
/  /tiJ  Diot>%*,   NUtb      .'{              roZv;n                   <)~~~~~~~~~~~ Project experirnentai sites  @\ Subprefectures
}  <       $      \ -               \~~~~~~~~~owao                                        Training center                  _--Departmnent boundaries
4    w trbub   7             sS                         B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Rice mill                     Subprefectures boundaries
a oiii {hX1 , °L>410tb ,, nR_ @ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Coffee hulling factory
\   riNqOi .             : ~~~~~~~~~~-4   ./o      ,< o ~~~~~~KILOMETE RS 01   10   20   3O-   40    50   60 70                  o    9      100
/           t             __-~:    'MARAUE    <=                                             g                  '     '     ^        *__            * 
\   t  _   _9    _ 3- ~~~~~~~    4L@^°/jlS ~~NATIONAL  Pfr,                      MILES 0         10 ~   20          310       4'0       510       6`0
/   t                     Nbh    4  frDAtOA             >                                             < , tia*DA O
A              i         o         °;5  o;0 Wiwe                                                 8eY4u4r
N;.bmW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~10ibe                   eKbi "lkr-            Kf                                       tb,k
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"4  *YP6   S.W                                             &O.WPt' ,v_9 teN
1  050.6 t|0 2Ne 7 ) \CA IFOTEVI\/OIV t<i?OGOI tu
i                                                         g                                   <.\_ U 8E R I A   J PtX lka,  Z             G HA N A QJ N 
_      ~      ~     ~      "     5                           iE G"^yoo                                     sx  <D               \          qucira ahi
S~~~~~.                            Kmd *11.".                          <           
: \ \ _ _ ~~~~~~~~ G>Zf of ¢~P  .1 vire
r               res>w~~~~~~~~~*B%  Q5< *o 6"                                                                 =!.Z= -= .d OwL 19-                      t h



661~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----- A1M
Su  9   ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
2    e                                   F                       X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
- - } x~~ 85> ; ^4t4wt<tyt--st o
!  -  r'     <           B         2   X       A       i .1      > : ?    ffi              /'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  t
%rlW ; 1q 0 ; 'j } C ,------
' {3 0 D   g>:   w  ~~~~ Q   c   > ,- ^.vX *,SN , s_  _>i   #   ,   .   .    O   |   >.t~~~~o
[ t; { [ [[|2   tn    '  t W ,   0    bt       X          ;    ;5Yt '1 >           1< o~~~~~~~~o
J  f            m    >   St~~VCL                 '^rt$',^ -------------                        '    } 
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-1                        I1:1  '10i      -     t     .iN.. _ 



/       N    ~~~~~A    L    I              4~~c 
'>  tr.                               Ae                       5,i                                      BURKINA FASO 
-D'    iH       O       \>l __g  GoO°      J                  tx-,.      Mb.,,  A't;                                                                                    %       l.
10- ~ ~            O                  0            '           ,      ess                  t{=<>0                                                
m .          II   - -                                     ---
D      oX    o     >\ tS  ) ~~~~~~~~           wJ           0 '~'134                                                             .                   s^      -  
()~~~~~~~OEN                                                                                0 ;>^     h s ^- W---w ~   "   ~ t'tob - -' ~ ~ 
ui~~~ ,             '                                0,                                   FEfIMc s<.,,t -/>,,,;__  <RKE.DOUGO
tbOSobu~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~SUDIL                            KOM4000 IJ ,;<   --!'        \ 0|  -~--      -->\                        ,.b
;4 / tUAhKOMz ,, tA_ t \ #, Ooct (#lUAK"O
\.*tt  sf  l   SW     < X                        >       X  <           sy      /  o   ' or        \           s  oz b,.o    >    '   '~~~~~~-\F'   {
\ p ^AN A~~~~~~~~~ 8'    9  X- o   : _' 8-
tH    °   \                    t           '4S '.>    ,       )        '  ~~~~~~~~ ,<B._             " ., ^ ~~~~~iX 'r~~    '     /           I      -|~~
s  s --- tx   t        ,Sz    o OALOA  \                     x    sy_,^    <             z    S         ,        |    ASfNtOL0 9<
| < > t& & A i*. X -A r or  * ox S= Z > 
z   2  /   oXi°ts         x             r f o,,Ooo t          ° i   ;4                *               t    o^, \                   \           z~~~~~~~~~~0 K.
z -t_______zXz Vo o \_s \ X,\s_ > \ o s. --------



