Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3613-INC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IVORY COAST
CENTER-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 5, 1982
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =  CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00                  =  CFAF 270
CFAF 1,000,000            =  US$ 3,700
FF 1.00                   =  CFAF 50
CFAF 1,000                =  FF20
US$ 1.00                  =  FF 5.40
FF 1,000                  =  US$ 185
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer            2  =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km ) =  0.39 square miles
1 hectare                 =  2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)           =  2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (t)          =  2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
Government:    January 1             December 31
SATMACI:        January 1            December 31
BNDA:           October 1            September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BETPA         Bureau d'Etudes Techniques de Projets Agricoles
BNDA         Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole
CA           Conseiller Agricole
CR           Conseiller Rural
CAA          Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CAP          Centre d'Approvisionnement des Planteurs
CCCE         Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CEFAG        Centre de Formation Agricole de Gagnoa
CSSPPA       Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Productions
Agricoles
DC           Direction Commerciale (SATMACI)
DRU          Unite de Recherche - Developpement
GVC          Groupement a Vocation Cooperative
IDESSA       Institut pour le Developpement des Savanes
IFCC         Institut Francais du Cafe et du Cacao
ITA          Ingenieur de Travaux Agricoles
MINAGRI      Ministere de i'Agriculture
MINFIN       Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
SATMACI      Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la Modernisation
de l'Agriculture en Cote d'Ivoire
UAP          Unite d'Appui a la Production.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
CENTER-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table Of Contents
Page
I.        THE SECTOR
A.  Introduction                                                 1
B. Agricultural Sector in the Economy                            1
C. Agricultural Policy                                           2
D.  Bank Investment in the Sector                                 3
E.  Institutions                                                  3
F.  Background to the Proposed Project                           6
II.       THE PROJECT AREA
A.  Physical Environment and Infrastructure                       7
B.  Socio-Economic Features                                      8
C.  Agricultural Structure and Production                        8
D.  Previous and Ongoing Development Projects                    9
E.  Resource Constraints                                        10
III.      PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.  Project Objectives and Design                               11
B.  General Description                                         12
C.  Farm and Crop Development                                   14
D. Agricultural Support Services                                18
E.  Institutional Support                                       23
IV.       PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.  Project Cost Estimates                                      25
B.  Proposed Financing                                          25
C.  Pre-Financing Requirements                                  29
D.  Procurement                                                 30
E.  Disbursements                                               31
F.  Flow of Funds                                               32
G.  Financial Control, Audit and Reporting Requirements         32
V.        PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES & FINANCIAL RESULTS
A.  Production                                                  34
B.  Marketing                                                   35
C.  Prices                                                      38
D.  Financial Results for Farmers                               40
E.  Financial Results for Government                            41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page
VI.       PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  General Summary                                       42
B.  Impact on Project Area                                42
C.  Economic Analysis                                     44
D.  Project Risks                                         46
VII.      CONDITIONS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
Conditions of Negotiation                                 46
Conditions of Effectiveness                               46
Assurances Required                                       47
Recommendation.                                           47
TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
Table 1 : Summary of Project Costs
Table 2 : Proposed Financing Plan
ANNEXES
Annex 1 : List of Reports and Working Papers in Project File
Annex 2 : Financial & Cost Tables
Table 1 : Annual Project Costs, by Component (CFAF '000)
Table 2 : Schedule of Disbursements (US$ '"00)
Table 3 : Government Cash Flow
Table 4 : SATMACI Balance Sheet
Annex 3 : Indicative Farm Budgets
Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4 : Schedule of Key Project Staff (Local and Expatriate)
Maps    16021  Ivory Coast
16022 The Project Area.



- 1 -
I. THE SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.01      The Government of Ivory Coast has requested Bank assistance in
financing an agricultural development project in the Center-West region of
the country. With the assistance of the Bank's Regional Office in Abidjan,
RMWA, the project was prepared by BETPA, the project preparation unit of
the Ministry of Agriculture, and was appraised jointly with the French CCCE
in May 1981. This report is based on the findings and recommendations of
the Bank appraisal mission which consisted of Messrs.   Ch. Redfern, E.
Pagacz and A. Rychener (Bank) and B. Ribon (consultant).
B. The Agricultural Sector in the Economy
1.02      Ivory Coast's population, estimated at 8.4 million (mid-1980),
has been growing during the 1970s at about 4.9% annually, including 1.9%
from immigration, one of the highest growth rates in the world. GDP growth
has been high, averaging 7% a year over the past decade.   This rapid
economic growth has been based on the agricultural and forestry sectors
which account for about 50% of the country's domestic product, and which
will continue to be important factors in its economic development even when
the country's petroleum resources are exploited. Abundant land, immigrant
labor supply and generally favorable world markets for its products have
assured rapid agricultural growth.  About 70% of the population depends
directly on agriculture, whose gross production in 1980 was valued at
US$2,500 million, of which industrial crops accounted for about US$1,800
million, food crops US$500 million and livestock US$200 million. Exports
of the three main commodities--coffee, timber, and cocoa--account for
about three-fourths of the country's total exports. The most profitable
economic activities are concentrated in the South, thus creating large
regional disparities in per capita income (in 1976, US$650 for the country
as a whole but US$150 for the savannah region and US$290 for the forest
zone). These income disparities account in part for North-South and rural-
urban migration: population is growing in the cities at around 10% per
annum, in the forest zone at about 4%, and declining by about 0.5% per
annum in the savannah zone.



- 2 -
C. Agricultural Policy
1.03      Agriculture has been and continues to be the key factor in the
economic development of the Ivory Coast.   This sector moreover plays a
major role in income and regional development policy, in that the bulk of
agricultural production comes from smallholder farms, of which there are
about 900,000.  While the prospects for developing new export resources
look promising, the country will still rely on agriculture as the keystone
of any stable and well-balanced economic and social development policy. In
the past, industrial crops have received priority, while food crops have
generally been  left  at  the  traditional  stage.   With  the Ivory Coast
experiencing serious balance of payments problems, it is essential to
check the growth of food imports wherever possible and to encourage
agricultural exports, at the same time raising farmers' incomes,
particularly in the savannah regions.
1.04      Since independence in 1960, agricultural development has been
stimulated by various factors : the exploitation of favorable world
markets, the installation of an appropriate infrastructure, successful
agricultural research programs, the creation of well-staffed crop
development agencies, a realistic farmgate-price incentive policy, and
ambitious investment projects both to expand traditional cash crops and to
develop new ones. Today, however, Ivorian agriculture is trying to get its
second wind.  Coffee and cocoa prices have fallen by over 50% from their
peak levels reached in 1977/78. Agricultural research has been making less
spectacular progress with industrial crops and has ignored a number of
important  food  crops.    The  agricultural  development  agencies  have
increased their operating costs without always generating a proportionate
increase in the value of production in the areas they cover. The farmgate
price policy has sometimes served to generate considerable public savings
and sometimes raised the costs of certain products to particularly
burdensome  levels  for  the community.   Agricultural  investmq ts  still
represent only a modest share of total public investment (14.5% - ). While
it is desirable to increase this percentage, care must be taken to ensure
that excessive expansion of certain export crops does not affect world
market equilibrium and that the development of new crops is consistent with
a reasonable assessment of the country's long-range comparative advantage.
The Government has embarked upon a series of major new initiatives in the
field of agricultural policies, institutional reform and investments to
overcome these problems. Support for this program is being provided by the
Bank under its Structural Adjustment (SAL) and Technical Assistance Loans
which will help to improve the sectoral poLicy environment for the pro-
posed Center-West project, notably in the areas of public sector financing
and agricultural pricing and marketing.
1/ 1981; excludes sugar program.



- 3 -
D. Bank Investment in the Sector
1.05      The  Bank  has  financed  12  operations  through  15  loans  for
agriculture in Ivory Coast, totalling US$168.6 million, as indicated
below:  five for oil palm and coconut estate development (FYs 69 and 71)
two for smallholder cocoa production (FYs 70 and 75); two for a rubber
plantation (FYs 73 and 78); two for oil palm and coconut smallholder and
estate development (FYs 74 and 77); one for rural development in cotton
areas (FY75); one for rubber smallholder and estate development (FY78);
one reafforestation project (FY79); and one for the rural development of
the North East Savannah region (FY80).   The focus of Bank involvement
shifted during the 1970s from an initial concentration on plantation crops
to projects aimed at or including smallholders (seven out of 12
operations).     In  addition,  Bank  projects  have  sought  to  provide
institutional support to the main agricultural development agencies
(notably SODEPALM, SATMACI and CIDT) although here the results have been
mixed. The impact of these projects, where completed, has been on balance
very positive, as confirmed in Bank PPAR reports, with the most striking
realizations in oil palm, coconut, rubber and cotton development. Results
of the two cocoa projects are discussed at para 2.12.   In recent years,
agricultural projects have encountered some implementation delays due to
problems of more complex objectives and institutional arrangements,
management difficulties, delays in financing by Government and policy
questions.   The proposed project would partly depend on the  SAL  for
avoiding such problems.
E. Institutions
1.06      National economic management and development planning are in the
hands of the Ministries of Planning and Finance while agricultural sector
development programs are the responsibility of the Ministries of
Agriculture and Livestock.   Execution of these programs was previously
entrusted to autonomous development agencies set up by the Government to
promote one or more  specific  crops.   However,  as part of a general
reorganization of responsibilities in the agricultural sector, the
Government has decided to transform some of these agencies (CIDT, SATMACI
and SODEPALM) into regional development agencies for agriculture, under
the control of the Ministry of Agriculture. Although this reorganization
is taking time to implement, the approach is basically sound and is
expected to facilitate the preparation of smallholder projects aimed at
improving farm output and incomes in all the regions.  In the meantime,
some of the other crop-specific agencies have been dissolved, including
SODERIZ (for rice) and SOCATCI (rubber), as well as two special agencies
which reported directly to the Presidency, the Bandama Valley (AVB) and
South-West Region (ARSO) development agencies.   Responsibility for rice
development has reverted to the three main regional agencies. SATMACI is
responsible for smallholder agricultural development in the forest zone.



- 4 -
1.07      SATMACI (Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la Modernisation de
l'Agriculture en Cote d'Ivoire) was created in 1958 and is the oldest of
the state-owned agricultural development companies operating in the Ivory
Coast. Its principal activities in recent years have been the provision of
technical assistance and extension services to cocoa, coffee and rice
farmers, procurement and supply of agricultural materials, commissioning
or construction of rural infrastructure works, and management of loans to
farmers or rural communities. SATMACI is not, however, involved in cocoa
or coffee marketing, which is handled by the private sector under the
control of the Caisse de Stabilisation  (para 1.10).   Partly for this
reason, SATMACI's performance in recovering farm credit has been poor,
particularly for medium-term credit granted for cocoa planting (only 28%
of cocoa loans due were recovered at September 30, 1980).   SATMACI is
organized both by technical functions (8) and by regions (6), which is
cumbersome. Although the total number of full-time employees has fallen
since 1975 from about 3,400 to 2,400 in 1980, the numbers involved in
SATMACI administration have increased disproportionately, from 6% to 26%
of the total. During this period the annual budget for salaries rose from
CFAF 1.1 billion to CFAF 2.7 billion, while the total operating budget
increased from about CFAF 5 billion in 1975 to CFAF 10 billion in 1980.
SATMACI has executed increasingly large annual programs on behalf of
Government with annual cocoa plantings, for instance, rising from 16,100
ha in 1975 to 26,600 ha in 1980, but without having seen corresponding
qualitative  results  in  term  of  improved  cocoa  yields.    SATMACI's
objectives, organization and extension approach are now due for review,
for the following reasons:
(i) overmanning and a simultaneous deterioration in training and
technical   effectiveness   of   field   staff,    leading   to
demoralisation of and undue pressures on staff;
(ii) excessive reliance on technical packages (for cocoa and coffee)
proved on research stations but uncertain under smallholder
conditions (para 1.11); and
(iii) rising financial charges and general lack of cost control due
mainly to a perennial lack of liquidity as a result of delays in
Government funding and hence heavy recourse to bank overdraft,
amounting to some US$31 million (CFAF 8.4 billion) at September
30, 1980.
1.08      In mid-1981 Government decided on a reorganization program for
SATMACI with five main elements:
(a) reducing new cocoa plantings from 24,000 to 10,000 ha per year,
suspension  of  payment  of  planting  bonuses  to  farmers,  and
discontinuation of specialised cocoa extension staff;
(b) reduction in the overall number of SATMACI's staff by releasing
about 700 employees (28% of total staff), mainly at the lowest
level, and subsequent retraining of remaining field staff to
provide an upgraded polyvalent agricultural extension service;



- 5 -
(c) trimming the annual operating and investment budgets for 1981 by
about 40% as compared with 1980;
(d) restoring SATMACI's financial situation to a sound basis under a
refinancing program designed to clear all accounts payable with
suppliers and commercial banks by paying arrears due by
Government and by transferring SATMACI's farm credit portfolio
to BNDA; and
(e) giving financial and administrative autonomy to SATMACI's
Commercial Division (DC), with an elimination of coffee and
cocoa input subsidies over three years.
1.09      While the need for reorienting SATMACI's operations had been
appreciated for some time, the present reorganization plan was mainly set
in motion because  of Government's budgetary situation.   It has not,
therefore, been able to address all the problems of reorganization and
decentralization  of  SATMACI's management.   The present  scale-down of
SATMACI's operations must be considered essentially as an interim measure
designed to regain the confidence of SATMACI's suppliers and commercial
banks.  What is really needed, and will be studied under the Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL) action program, is a longer term reorganization plan
focussing on the following points:
(i) SATMACI's future management structure, staffing requirements and
operational procedures as dictated by its revised objectives;
(ii) the financial and administrative arrangements to be adopted
within the context of SATMACI's new statutes as a wholly-owned
Government agency with no sources of own revenue;
(iii) the feasibility and problems of decentralizing management to the
six SATMACI regions (to be re-drawn to correspond with
administrative boundaries); and
(iv) the specific financial and management needs of the Commercial
Division.
Pending the outcome of this management study to be carried out during
1982, the interim measures already decided were adopted. During negotiations
evidence was provided by SATMACI that it had arranged and implemented
a refinancing plan to clear its accounts payable and to consolidate and
reschedule its short-and medium term commercial bank borrowings (para 7.01).
1.10      The  Caisse  de  Stabilisation  et  de  Soutien  des  Prix  des
Productions   Agricoles   (CSSPPA)   is   responsible   for   underwriting
Government's agricultural price policies.  It guarantees producer prices
for cocoa, coffee, palm oil and kernels, copra, and cotton which are fixed
annually, inspects export commodities for quality, organizes transport and
storage operations and conducts or controls commodity sales on the world
market. Accumulated surpluses of such operations have been used to build
reserves partly for reinvestment in agriculture and rural development and
partly for financing of the Government's investment budget in other
sectors.



1.11      Agricultural  research  is  undertaken  by  several  specialized
institutes staffed under a bilateral agreement with France and controlled
by the Ministry of Scientific Research.   Coffee and cocoa research is
undertaken by the Institut Francais du Cafe et du Cacao (IFCC), which acts
also as the Technical Advisor to SATMACI and has provided some of its
senior technical staff. Most of the research work on food crops has been
done by IDESSA (Institut pour le Developpement des Savanes) which has a
station at Gagnoa in the Center-West (para 3.32). Much of the agricultural
research work on coffee and cocoa has been of high quality but difficult to
adapt to the needs and constraints of smallholders, who have found many of
the technical recommendations unfeasible because of conflicts with the
traditional cropping calendar.
1.12      The Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole (BNDA), the
main source of formal credit to smallholders, has been involved mainly in
short-term credit using rediscount facilities with the central bank of
West African countries (BCEAO).   In the past BNDA has mostly operated
through the development agencies which handled the credit in their
respective subsectors. BNDA is now actively engaged in decentralizing its
operations with the objective of dealing more directly with farmers, and
village cooperative groups (GVC), promoting savings and monitoring its
loan portfolio.   BNDA is well managed and its loan recovery rates are
generally satisfactory. However, not having a Government-backed guarantee
fund, it is obliged to take a prudent view of its investments. BNDA will
take over the recovery of past loans to farmers issued by SATMACI.
F. Background to the Proposed Project
1.13      The Center-West region of the Ivory Coast, centered around the
towns of Gagnoa, and Daloa, comprises about 80,000 farming family units of
diverse ethnic origin, and produces about 20% of Ivory Coast's production
of both cocoa and coffee.  Cocoa production in IVC has expanded rapidly,
quadrupling in volume over the last 20 years (370,000t in 1980), while
coffee production has levelled off since 1975 at around 275,000t.   The
Center-West region is highly productive and is responsible for a gradually
increasing share of this production.   Cultivation of cocoa and coffee
started in the south-east and has spread westwards through the Ivorian
forest zone, in the wake of loggers whose trails through the forest permit
agricultural settlement to take place. This settlement has contributed to
a potentially dangerous rate of destruction of the country's forest
reserves,  which have  decreased  by 50%  over  the last  15 years.   The
'frontier' of agricultural colonization of the forest passed through most
of the Center-West region during the early 1970s. This is reflected in a
virtual doubling of the region's population between 1965 and 1975 due to an
influx of laborers and farmers from the North, and in spite of an
emigration of many young educated Bete to the towns. The need to take full
account of an increasing scarcity of both farm labor and forest land, as
well as adjusting to radically changed external market prospects for
cocoa, has been fundamental to the project concept. Equally important is
the need to find a more effective method of intervention at field level for
SATMACI which would take account of these resource constraints and respond
to the potential of the region for more intensive agricultural
exploitation. If successful the proposed project would provide important
lessons for application in the rest of the forest zone of Ivory Coast.



- 7-
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Environment and Infrastructure
2.01      General.  The project area (Map IBRD 16021) covers an area of
22,000 km  or approximately 7% of the Ivory Coast.   It comprises four
administrative departments: Daloa, Gagnoa, Issia and Oume, totalling eight
sub-prefectures: Daloa, Vavoua, Zoukougbeu, Gagnoa, Ouragahio, Guiberoua,
Issia and Oume.
2.02      Topography and Soils.  The area consists of gently to moderately
undulating plains between 200 m and 300 m above sea level, punctuated by
occasional residual hills of resistant rock which rise to over 600 m. The
area is underlined by basement complex crystalline rocks consisting
predominantly of folded gneisses, schists, and quartzites.  Upland soils
are predominantly ferralitic and range from coarse to heavy clay.   IFCC
soil surveys have shown that much of the land is suitable for coffee and
cocoa cultivation. Valley soils which range from sandy clay loams to silty
clays, have a high natural fertility but are subject to seasonal
waterlogging  and  floods.   Many  of  them  are  suitable  for bottomland
irrigated rice cultivation but need some engineering investment for better
water control.
2.03      Climate.   Annual rainfall varies from around 1,300 mm in the
north to 1,600 mm in the south, most falling between March and October.
Rainfall distribution is bimodal in the south with a marked decline in
July-August, but this pattern of distribution becomes less distinctive in
the north, which experiences a more uniform accumulation of rainfall up to
its peak in September.
2.04      Roads and Communications.   The project area is served by a
satisfactory network providing links between main administrative centers
and reasonable access to villages.   The maintenance of this network is
undertaken by the Ministry of Public Works but sometimes subcontracted to
local private agencies. Gagnoa and Daloa are connected with the capital by
first-class roads, the distance being 290 km and 410 km respectively, and
are regularly served by the internal airline.
2.05      Industries.    Two  rice  mills  of  6t/h  capacity  each  with
polyvalent silo of 10,500t storage capacity and four coffee hulling
factories totalling a capacity of 80,000t/year are operating in the
project area.   The rice mills are located at Daloa and Gagnoa and the
coffee hulling factories at Daloa,  Gagnoa,  Issia and Oume.   Recently
SATMACI has installed at Daloa an experimental cocoa factory for
fermentation, drying, sorting and bagging of cocoa beans.   There are a
number of large sawmills in the area which handle some of the local
hardwood timber before it is exported.



-8-
B. Socio-Economic Features
2.06      Population.    Population  is  estimated  (mid-1981)  at  813,000
inhabitants and the rural population at 610,000.   The growth rate of
population is one of the highest for any region of Ivory Coast, averaging
5.5% p.a between 1965 and 1985.2 The rural population density is highest in
the south-east (Oume) at 62/km  and tapers off to 22/km  in Vavoua in the
north, with an average for the region of 33/km . Although there is a great
diversity of tribes in the Center-West, the two main autochthonous groups
are the Krou, mainly represented by the Bete, and the Mande. In addition
to these autochtonous groups many non-native groups which originated from
other parts of Ivory Coast, such as the Baoule, and from Upper-Volta, Mali
and Guinea have  settled  in the project area.   Because of continuous
immigration, and an emigration of school-leavers to the towns, the
immigrants will soon constitute more than half of the rural population.
2.07      Land Tenure.  The basic pattern of land ownership and usage in
the project area has been the communal land tenure system under which
traditional leaders are considered to be the custodians of all land in
their areas of jurisdiction, and are empowered to grant usufruct to
individuals or families. Theoretically, all lands could be repossessed by
the community acting through the chief and traditional elders on the death
or departure of the land users. In practice, however, lands are generally
heritable through family.  At the discretion of the head of the family,
land is also divided among family members, or leased out to other families
or even sold to strangers. Generally, the autochthons employ foreigners in
their cocoa/coffee plantings and allocate them a piece of land for their
own food crop prziuction.   Progressively, however,  this temporary land
cession is being replaced by the sale of land to the foreigners.
Sharecropping and tenancy arrangements  are also common.   In general,
competition for land ownership is very strong and gives rise to inter-
ethnic and inter-generational tensions.
C. Agricultural Structure and Production
2.08      Land  Use.    About  557,000  ha  are  presently  cultivated  by
smallholders, including about 220,000 ha of coffee, 200,000 ha of cocoa and
about 137,000 ha of food crops. Given the total number of farms of around
80,000 (51,000 in the north and 29,000 in the south), this indicates an
average farm holding of about 7.6 ha in the North and 6.1 ha in the South.
In general, the area under perennial crop increases with the farm size but
the area under food crops remains unchanged with an average of about 0.5 ha
per working person.
2.09      Farm Structure and Farm Labor.  About 37% of farmers in the north
and 51% in the south cultivate less than 5 ha each, while 16% and 9%
respectively cultivate more than 10 ha each.   The "average" farm family
numbers 7.5 persons in the north of whom 3.8 are working people and 7.9 in
the south with 3.5 working people. An active person devotes about 260 man-
days per year for agricultural activities. In addition, about 20% of the



- 9 -
farmers employ permanent hired labor, while temporary hired labor is
utilized at various times by about 65% of farms.
2.10      Farm Operations.   Principal food crops are swamp (bottomland)
and rainfed rice, maize, cassava, yams, cocoyams, plantain, cowpeas and
various vegetables. Mixed cropping is almost universally practised. Food
crops are mainly consumed on the farm and sales consist of occasional
surpluses.
2.11      Coffee and cocoa are planted either in pure stand as main crop or
in association as secondary crop.   In the north and in the south the
average area cultivated in coffee is 3.4 ha and 1.8 ha and in cocoa 2.3 ha
and 2.0 ha respectively. Using simple cultivation techniques, the average
yield obtained in the project area is about 300 kg/ha of dry coffee beans
and about 400 kg/ha of dry cocoa beans, slightly above the national
averages, which have been declining. The project area is producing about
75,000t of cocoa and 60,000t of coffee, 140,000t of yams, 140,000t of
plantain, 80,000t of paddy, 80,000t of cocoyam, 60,000t of cassava and
25,000t of maize.
D. Previous and Ongoing Development Projects
2.12     The region was included under past programs during 1971-1981 to
assist new hybrid cocoa planting by smallholders under SATMACI, which were
financially assisted by the Bank (Loans 686 and 1069) and the FED and for
development of bottomland rice cultivation under SODERIZ during 1973-1977,
financed by CCCE. None of these programs, particularly the cocoa projects,
have been very successful mainly because of SATMACI's inability to provide
efficient extension services and because the Government decided in 1974 to
allocate a grant of CFAF 60,000 (US$222) per ha of new cocoa planted. This
tended to encourage new plantings regardless of cultivation practices.
All of these programs suffered from pursuing a single-crop approach and
concentrating purely on achievement of physical targets, while ignoring
important technical and institutional aspects.
2.13      A Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) of the first cocoa
project was issued in 1978 which, on the basis of appraisal yield estimates
and cocoa prices higher than forecast at appraisal estimated that the
project's economic rate of return at completion would be 47%. However, on
the basis of a detailed survey carried out by the Rural Statistics Service
(DSREA) of the Ministry of Agriculture (unpublished report of November
1979) and on Bank supervision missions' findings, it is apparent that
hybrid cocoa yields may be less than half of those anticipated during
appraisal. The disappointing yields result more from high planting losses
and subsequent delays in reaching full production stage, and poor
maintenance, particularly misadjustment of shading, rather than from poor
quality planting material. The DSREA survey also pointed to insufficient
adoption of technical recommendations since farmers are constrained by the
food and tree crops' cultural calendar, i.e. certain works have to be



- 10 -
undertaken at the time when food crops demand labor. In the light of these
findings the PPAR's estimated economic rate of return has to be considered
over-optimistic.   Formulation of the proposed Center-West project takes
full account of relevant findings of the PPAR for Cocoa I as well as of the
DSREA evaluation survey.
E. Resource Constraints
2.14      Despite low average yields per ha, a combination of positive
factors (land, climate, labor availability, marketing infrastructure and
remunerative prices) has allowed Ivory Coast to become the leading African
producer of coffee and the world's largest exporter of cocoa. While land
and labor resources have not yet reached their limits they are becoming
scarcer, and this is reflected in their increasing market values.   Land
constraints result in illegal clearing and cultivation of an increasing
part of the forest reserves and occasional conflicts between autochthons
and immigrants.   Labor availability is an increasing constraint for the
Bete as their youth are mostly educated and migrating to the cities. Pilot
actions under the project (para 3.22) would aim to demonstrate the improved
returns which could be achieved from better farm management and more
intensive husbandry. If successful, this would help to ease pressure on
land and to encourage more of the younger population to make their living
in agriculture.



- 11 -
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Project Objectives and Design
3.01      Objectives.  The proposed project has three main objectives:
(a)  to promote a substantial increase in the incomes of about 28,000
farm families by supporting programs to increase their
production of coffee, rice, maize and other food crops and their
participation  in marketing  of  these  crops  through  village
cooperatives;
(b) to try to establish valid and replicable solutions to the
principal resource constraints facing agriculture in the forest
zone (para 2.14); and
(c) to provide support at the regional level for institutional
reforms being carried out by SATMACI (para 1.04) and BNDA (para
1.12).
3.02      Design.   The Frincipal ways by which the project would attain
these objectives would bO:
(a) by carrying out pilot and full-scale programs of farm and crop
development which would encourage more intensive land use and
diversified farming systems;
(b) by reorganizing and retraining SATMACI's extension service in
the region so as to improve its effectiveness in responding to
farmers' needs for technical advice, cooperative organization,
agricultural inputs and credit; this would also involve
strengthening BNDA's local offices and SATMACI's commercial
division; and
(c) by carrying out rehabilitation programs and complementary
investments to ensure that past investments in cocoa, coffee and
rice  production  were  productively  utilized.    An  essential
element in project design and in carrying out the above
activities would be the integration of some ongoing regional
programs for coffee, cocoa and rice into the project. This would
avoid a duality of management and extension structures in the
same area and facilitate diffusion of technical modifications
emerging from the pilot components throughout the rest of the
area.



- 12 -
B. General Description
3.03      The  proposed  project would  be  carried out over a five-year
investment period and would comprise three types of components: farm and
crop development; agricultural support services; and institutional support
and studies.  Some components of each of these three types would mainly
concern a program of pilot activities in 30 selected villages.
3.04      Farm and Crop Development.    Resources would be provided  to
SATMACI to assist farmers to implement agricultural development programs
in the project area with the following objectives:
(a) to maintain coffee production by planting about 9,640 ha of
improved robusta coffee clones and 250 ha of arabusta coffee and
by regenerating 14,300 ha of coffee in bearing through pruning
and fertilization.  Coffee programs would be expected to yield
about 14,800 tons of marketed coffee by PY13 (para 3.07-08);
(b) to rehabilitate about 4,450 ha of young cocoa in blocks, to
organize antimirid treatment covering 1,750 ha of cocoa and to
improve the quality of about 25% of cocoa produced in the area
through the utilization of improved plastic cases for cocoa
fermentation.   Total incremental production is estimated to be
about 1,500 tons of marketed cocoa by PY13;
(c) to plant about 300 ha of coconuts for local consumption on soils
surrounding the bottomlands, to test the feasibility of
promoting this potential diversification crop without involving
excessive costs for Government (para 3.13);
(d)  to increase  bottomland  rice  cultivation by 2,200 ha and to
improve upland rice production on about 5,500 ha, resulting in a
total incremental production of about 12,500 t of paddy by PY5
(para 3.14-17); and
(e)  to improve maize, groundnuts and yams on 3,270 ha, 360 ha and 300
ha respectively, resulting in an increased production of 5,500
tons of maize, 360 tons of groundnuts and 600 tons of yams (para
3.18-20);
The costs of these programs include farm inputs and equipment which would
be paid for by participating farmers. A description of the farm and crop
development programs is given in subsequent paragraphs while technical
background on the agronomic basis for the proposals is contained in Staff
Working Paper 3 (Project File).
3.05      Agricultural Support Services.   The project would include the
following support services needed by SATMACI to carry out the above
specific programs and generally to sustain the agricultural production of
the area:



- 13 -
(a) Extension Service: reorganizing the existing SATMACI extension
staff into 4 zones, strengthening it by the addition of about 50
field agents and by selection and promotion of about 60
agricultural advisors by PY5 (para 3.25);
(b)  Pilot Zones Extension Unit:   creation of a special unit with
about 20 staff to carry out pilot components of land-use
planning and crop development in three selected test zones
comprising 30 villages (para 3.23);
(c) Staff Training: remodelling of an existing training center at
Gagnoa and staffing, equipment and operation of a new Project
Training Unit needed to provide basic and refresher training
courses for about 280 SATMACI staff required to implement the
project, and upgrading courses for about 60 of these staff (para
3.26);
(d) Cooperative Development: creation of a unit with about 40 staff
by PY5 to take responsibility for training and supervising about
360 existing or new village cooperatives (GVC) and assisting
them with their book-keeping, inputs procurement and credit
management (para 3.27);
(e)  Monitoring  &  Evaluation:    staffing  and  regular  consultant
support for a project monitoring and evaluation unit (PMEU) to
provide data on project performance and impact (para 3.35);
(f) Development Research Unit (DRU): creation of a special unit to
carry out agro-economic studies, surveys and agricultural
applied research in accordance with needs already determined or
arising during implementation of the pilot program, the results
of which it would evaluate funding for short-term consultancies
to assist DRU would be included (para 3.32); and
(g)  Mechanization:    to support  the program  for bottomland rice
cultivation, three workshops would be constructed and operated
by SATMACI in order to maintain and repair small machinery such
as power tillers and threshers operated by smallholder rice
farmers (para 3.31).
3.06      Institutional  Support.       In  order  to  achieve  its  other
objectives,  the  project  would  provide  support  for  the  following
institutions:
(a)  SATMACI Regional Management - to ensure its capacity to manage
the project, SATMACI's existing Regional office at Daloa would
be strengthened by the addition of three key staff to become the
project management unit (PMU) with primary responsibility for
project staffing and for the commitment of project funds (para
3.38);



- 14 -
(b)  SATMACI's   Commercial   Division  -  turther  to  an  ongoing
reorganization, this would be strengthened by the provision of
one accountant and periodic assistance from the project's
Financial Controller, and by the provision of vehicles for
delivery of inputs within the project area; it would be provided
by Government with adequate working capital for its operations
(para 3.40);
(c) BNDA - in order to handle an increased amount of business in the
region, the project would provide for the staffing and initial
operating costs over four years of two new branch offices at
Vavoua and Issia (para 3.42). BNDA would use its own resources
to finance loans to farmers for the purchase of agricultural
materials needed for the project (para 3.43); and
(d) MINAGRI - funds would be provided for consultants to carry out
short-term studies related to the implementation and evaluation
of the project (para 3.44).
C. Farm and Crop Development
3.07      Robusta Coffee Planting/Replanting.  The extension service would
assist about 10,000 farmers to plant about 1 ha each of selected robusta
coffee, including about 840 ha in the test villages. Such assistance would
comprise the provision of clonal planting material (1,500 rooted cuttings
per ha, produced by SATMACI nurseries), 300 kg/ha over three years of urea
fertilizer, herbicides and hand tools, and technical advice in site
selection, staking out, holing and planting, and in maintenance of the
young plantations through maturity to the first major pruning (normally in
year N8).   Farmers  would  purchase  the required  inputs at full cost,
estimated at CFAF 97,000/ha over years Nl-4, for which they would normally
be eligible for a loan from BNDA (para 3.43). Food crops would be grown in
the inter-rows during the first two years. Since the main object of this
component is to demonstrate the benefit to farmers of correctly managed,
higher-yielding small coffee gardens over the traditional type of
extensive coffee cultivation, participating farmers would be carefully
selected by the extension service. Average yields for all participating
farmers are projected at about 800 kg/ha of clean coffee at maturity,
compared with an estimated average in the project area of only about 300
kg/ha (para 2.11), but compared with results achieved by the best farmers
of 1,200 kg/ha. Incremental production due to the project would be 7,600 t
in PY12; however, it is estimated that about two-thirds of this amount
would offset declines in yield from old coffee plantings going out of
production (para 5.04).
3.08      Coffee Regeneration.  This consists of drastic pruning of 10-25
year old coffee which is in bearing but declining in yield due to over-
growth, aging of the fruit-bearing stems, and general neglect. The pruning
is accompanied  by  applications  of  nitrogenous  fertilizer,  food  crop



- 15 -
interplanting (rice) and weed control. Farmers would be advised to prune
each year only one-fifth of their coffee area to avoid a sharp decline in
production and to allow the intercropping of food crops on an equivalent
area every year. The method of pruning recommended for coffee plants would
be multi-stem pruning in five-year cycles. This component would involve
about 10,800 farmers, each pruning an average of 3.5 ha (Daloa) or 2.0 ha
(Gagnoa) over five years, so that by PY5 about 14,300 ha would be
regenerated and a total of 31,700 ha by PY10. Incremental production is
calculated at 7,200 t by PY12, on the basis of an average annual yield
improvement for five years after regeneration of about 220 kg/ha of clean
coffee. This is achieved using purchased inputs costing CFAF 26,600 per ha
and an estimated additional 220 man-days of farm labor over five years for
each ha regenerated. About half of all the pure-stand or medium-density
coffee in the area (i.e. about 80,000 ha) is within the age group (10-25
years) where regeneration through heavy pruning could be justified. The
project target represents about 40% of this area. The expected adoption
rate is fairly modest in PY1 and 2 (about 500 ha and 1,000 ha respectively
and is assumed to increase to 6,300 ha per year by PY5.
3.09      Rehabilitation of Young Cocoa on Blocks.   In the project area
about 10,000 ha of cocoa have been planted in blocks, including about 6,500
ha under the Second Cocoa project financed by the Bank. About 4,500 ha of
young 2-5 year old, hybrid cocoa are judged suitable for appropriate
maintenance efforts under the proposed project to safeguard past
investment. This would comprise: (i) replacing trees which have died; (ii)
treatment against earias and mirids; (iii) crown pruning and sucker
removal; and (iv) weeding and shade adjustment. Incremental production is
estimated at 1,110 t by PY 13, based on an improvement of yields at
maturity (PY9) on the rehabilitated blocks of about 250 kg/ha (from about
550 tO 800 kg/ha) which would not have a significant effect on total Ivory
Coast production or exports (para 5.12).
3.10      Cocoa Fertility Restoration through Antimirid Treatment.  In the
project area, mirnd damage is extensive although substantial areas are
sprayed by individual farmers.   This is because irregular spraying has
produced some resistance by mirids to lindane (the chemical most used by
farmers) and because adjacent unsprayed areas provide ample opportunity
for feeding and reproduction by the target species. It is estimated that
losses are about 200 kg/ha of dry cocoa beans on younger plantations which
are seriously attacked by insects.   A  systematically organized mirid
control program would be carried out on 1,750 ha in the test zones, with
close technical supervision by IFCC entomologists, including testing the
feasibility of using different methods of insect control.
3.11      Cocoa Quality Improvement.   SATMACI with IFCC's collaboration
has successfully experimented plastic cases of 80 litres capacity and
plastic  sheets  of  2.40  m width  to  improve  the  conditions  of  cocoa
fermentation and sundrying. To process about one ton of finished product
four plastic cases at CFAF 3000 each and 5 m of plastic sheet at CFAF 250
per meter are needed.   Under  the project  the extension agents would
demonstrate to farmers how to utilize the plastic cases for cocoa
fermentation. It is expected that under the project about 15,000 farmers



- 16 -
would purchase 6 cases each and would receive 2 cases free under a quality
promotion campaign to be financed by Government in association with the
local manufacturer.   An assurance  to this effect was obtained during
negotiations (para 7.01). This would have an impact on about 15% of the
cocoa production of the area.
3.12      Arabusta Coffee.  In addition to the selection of high yielding
Robusta coffee, IFCC has developed an inter-specific hybrid coffee called
Arabusta  (coffea Canephora,  variety Robusta X coffea Arabica).   This
hybrid gives a high yield under good farming conditions and has a better
taste than robusta coffee.   It is produced by a washing/fermentation
process, like most Arabica coffee, and therefore requires additional
investments  by  growers  in  depulpers  and  washing  tanks.    With  IFCC
collaboration SATMACI established in 1972 an experimental plantation of
500 ha of Arabusta coffee near Soubre. This new hybrid will be restricted
to the most advanced farmers in the test zone with a total target of 250
ha, since not all the technical problems under smallholder conditions have
yet been resolved. Estimated yields are as for improved robusta coffee.
3.13      Coconut Planting.   The soils surrounding the bottomlands are
generally suitable for coconuts provided that a regular fertilizer program
is implemented.  The proposed project would incluide a component of about
300 ha of coconut plantings in pilot villages.  Individual plots of 0.25 to
0.5 ha per grower would be grouped in village plantings of about 5 to 10
ha. The purpose of this pilot component is to test under what conditions
coconut could serve as a worthwhile diversification crop without entailing
high costs for Government in provision of nurseries, long-term credit and
coprah marketing arrangements, as experienced under an earlier program
under SODEPALM fo7r 'cocotiers dans l'interie'ir' which has been terminated.
Interested farmers would be able to buy pre-germinated hybrid coconuts
produced by SODEPALM and  supplied by SATMACI.   Production  from  this
component would be absorbed in the local market (para 5.10).
3.14      Irrigated  Bottomland  Rice.    There  are  about  900  ha  of
bottomlands which have a lateral water catchment in good working
condition, allowing the annual cultivation of about 1,270 ha of paddy.
Provision would be made under the project to develop about 980 ha of new
bottomlands and to rehabilitate the irrigation works on about 1,300 ha of
bottomlands  developed  between  1973  and  1976,  allowing  the  annual
cultivation of an additional  3,200 ha of paddy, of which about 1,400
ha/year would be under mechanized cultivation using power tillers and
threshers. Through an appropriate extension service and logistic support
to farmers, it is expected that the average yield of paddy would be
increased from 2 t/ha to 2.8 t/ha under manual cultivation, and to 3.3 t/ha
under mechanized cultivation, using two-wheeled power tillers. In recent
years Government has been providing free fertilizers for irrigated rice
production.   The justification for this subsidy on economic grounds is
doubtful and it would be reviewed under the comprehensive study of
agricultural prices, subsidies and taxes to be completed and discussed
with the Bank in 1982.   An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
Government would no later than June 30, 1983, agree with the Bank on its
detailed plan for putting into effect the ccnclusions of the study on this
matter (para 7.01).



- 17 -
3.15      Mechanization.    On  previously  cultivated  and  rehabilitated
bottomlands the absence of tree stumps would permit the use of power
tillers (one per 10 ha), allowing farmers specializing in irrigated rice
cultivation to increase the area cultivated to about 2 ha, in two crop
cycles,  without  use  of hired  labor.   Power  threshers would  also be
introduced (one per 15 ha) to reduce labor demand at harvest.   These
machines would be owned and operated by GVC (para 3.27) of rice farmers,
normally on a medium-term loan from BNDA, and individual farmers would pay
an hourly charge  to the GVC covering the operating,  amortization and
interest charges.   Costs per ha are estimated at CFAF 23,500 for land
preparation (20 hours) and CFAF 11,745 for threshing (15 hours).   The
project would also provide the necessary support services for such small-
scale mechanization (para 3.31).
3.16      Upland Foodcrops.   Until now improved food crop production in
the forest zone and food crop research have been limited to irrigated
bottomland rice production while other food crop developments have taken
place mainly in the savannah zone. In order to remedy this and to promote
a more balanced development of agriculture in the area, the project would
aim to improve particularly the cultivation of rainfed (upland) rice and
maize and, to a lesser extent, of yams and groundnuts.
3.17      Rainfed Rice.  This is the most important foodcrop in the area,
being grown on an estimated 60,000 ha, mostly under the responsibility of
women. The variety IRAT 109 (105 days) has been successfully tested in the
project  area  in 1980.   The  average yield under  traditional  cropping
conditions,  was  1,770 kg/ha  of  paddy  versus  1,000 kg/ha with  local
varieties.    Under  the  project,  farmers  would be  advised  to replace
progressively their own varieties by the new one which has a shorter cycle
and is drought resistant. It is expected that with timely sowing and with
better weed control the yield would be 1,600 kg of paddy per ha without
fertilizer and 1,800 kg/ha using 50 kg/ha of urea (pure stand basis). By
PY5 it is expected that about 5,500 ha would be included in this program,
giving an increase in production of about 4,000 t.
3.18      Maize.  The improved variety CJB (105 days) was developed in the
north-west of Ivory Coast and has been tested in the northern part of the
project area. It would be issued to about 3,000 selected farmers who would
be likely to apply the appropriate husbandry methods to obtain improved
yields, which are (i) use of pre-treated seed; (ii) sowing before mid March
to assure maturity before the small dry season of July-August; (iii) an
adequate plant population of 40,000 per ha (80 x 30 cm spacing, requiring
25 kg/ha of seed); fertilizing at the rate of 75 kg/ha of compound (10-18-
18) and 50 kg of urea; (iv) thinning two weeks after sprouting; (v) two or
three careful weedings; and (vi) dusting the crop with an insecticidal
powder such as nexion at the rate of 1 kg per ton in the husk to avoid
storage losses. About 1,100 ha would be grown interplanted with coffee and
about 2,200 ha as a sole crop (PY5). At the rate of development proposed a
reasonably high degree of farmer selection and supervision by extension
workers would be possible.   Based on earlier trials in the area, yields
(pure stand basis) are estimated at 1,400 kg/ha without and 1,800 kg/ha
with fertilizer application, giving an estimated incremental production of
5,500 t by PY5.



- 18 -
3.19      Yams.  The main improvements to be promoted by extension workers
would consist of better choice of yam setts and use of insecticide (15
kg/ha aldrin 5% at planting), and early weeding. It is expected that these
improvements would enable project farmers to achieve substantial yield
increases from the present average of 8 t/ha of fresh tubers to about 10
t/ha and that by PY5 some 300 ha of yams would be improved in the pilot
zones.
3.20      Groundnuts.    To  start  a  pilot  operation  farmers  would  be
supplied with the short cycle variety (100 days) KH 149A at the rate of 100
kg of unshelled groundnuts per ha. The technical package would include:
(i)  seed  treatment  with  thioral  insecticide-fungicide  mixture,  (ii)
planting in rows 45 cm apart, with spacing of 15 cm in the row, to give a
plant population of 110,000 per ha, (iii) first weeding 15 days after
sowing and second weeding at flowering, and (iv) use of nexion at the rate
of 1 kg/ton of groundnuts at storage. About 350 ha would be grown by PY5 in
the pilot zones. Expected yields are about 900 kg/ha.
3.21      Input Requirements.  In addition to planting material for coffee
and cocoa annual the input requirements would be by PY5: 400 t of paddy
seed, 82t of maize seed, 16 t of groundnut seed, 2,500 t of fertilizers,
160,000 1 of insecticides and 20,000 1 of herbicides.  Other items such as
plastic fermentation cases, sprayers, mistblowers, and hand tools would
also be needed by farmers, as well as power tillers and threshers for rice
growers. Arrangements for distributing such supplies are described under
support services (para 3.30).
3.22      Pilot Actions.   In the test zones, land resources of about 30
village communities would be systematically surveyed by aerial photography
and ground  controi  in oraer  to permit  improved  land use pians  ro be
prepared by consultants.   Incentives would be offered for implementing
such plans in the form of assistance for opening simply designed access
tracks; help in identifying, cutting and selling valuable species of
timber on land to be cleared for new plantings; soil erosion prevention
works where appropriate; simple bottomland drainage canals; and location
of water points for agricultural use. The pilot actions would include the
planting of about 250 ha of Arabusta coffee (para 3.12) and of 300 ha of
coconuts (para 3.13) as well as the test of organized anti-mirid treatment
on about 1,750 ha of existing cocoa plantations  (para 3.10).   Higher
standards of husbandry and yields obtained on pilot zone farms would be
intended to serve as a test of the new-style extension approach and as a
demonstration to younger farmers in particular of the potential benefits
of more intensive farming. Extension activities would aim to include women
farmers.
D. Agricultural Support Services
3.23        Pilot Zones Unit:   The farm and crop development components
would comprise: (i) pilot actions on 30 villages, carried out using
a new approach of extension work; and (ii) integrated non-pilot activities
carried  out  through  a  reorganized,   'classical'  extension  service.
The main purpose of the pilot actions would be to show how young farmers



- 19 -
and villagers can be actively involved in planning and organizing their
own development.   For this purpose extension work would be based  on
group workshops during which individual farmers who had an interest in
pursuing a common strategy would work with specially trained extension
advisors for both technical (Conseiller agricole) and logistical problems
(cooperative agent).
3.24      The 30 villages would be grouped into 3 test zones with centers
in Dadegue, Bamiehoa and Zoukougboue (Map IBRD 16022). Each zone would be
headed by UAP chief (Unite d'Appui a la Production) of ITA level (Ingenieur
des Travaux Agricoles).  Each UAP chief would supervise 5 CA (Conseiller
Agricole) who would be responsible for all extension activities, each one
covering two villages. The Pilot Zones Unit (PZU) would be headed by an
experienced agriculturist who would be internationally recruited and who
would report directly to the project technical director. In its work PZU
would collaborate closely with other agencies working in the area such as
SODEPRA (livestock) and CEFAG (village training and animation).
3.25      Extension Service.  There would be no SATMACI extension staff or
activities in the Center-West not covered under the project. Outside the
pilot zones extension work would initially be channelled through a
traditional extension service for 420 villages and through an extension
organization similar to that of the test zones for 75 villages. Headed by
an experienced Ivorian agriculturist reporting to the project's technical
director, the service would be organized in four sectors constituting the
whole Center-West region. Each sector would be managed by an agriculturist
assisted by two technical supervisors (adjoint techniques) who would
manage the coffee/cocoa/foodcrops extension agents as well as the agents
specialized in irrigated bottomland rice. Over the 5-year project period,
this classical extension structure would be gradually replaced by a new
extension structure similar to that in the test zone, at a rate consistent
with the availability of suitably retrained manpower. The key feature of
the new structure would be the elimination of the present intermediate
level of agricultural assistant and upgrading some of the bottom layer
(conseillers ruraux, CR) by retraining and promotion to conseiller
agricole.
3.26      Extension  Staff  Training.    Redesigned  basic  and  refresher
training courses would have to be provided to permit the creation of the
PVU and the envisaged progressive reorganization of the SATMACI extension
service outside of the test zones. During the life of the project, about
280 extension staff would require an estimated 454 m/m of basic training
and 178 m/m of refresher course, without allowing for wastage.  To permit
the Center-West project to start as planned the required initial staff
would need to be trained under pre-project activities.   Therefore an
internationally recruited senior training officer as well as his local
assistant would be recruited early to prepare detailed training syllabuses
and to start training of extension staff prior to commencement of the
project. Equally, the improvement of the 40-bed dormitory and classrooms
in SATMACI's Gagnoa training center should be undertaken as early as
possible.   Given the importance of this component,  training activities
estimated to cost about CFAF 89.1 million (US$330,000) would be financed



- 20 -
through a Project Preparation Facility advance of US$250,000 with
Government  covering  the remaining  costs.    Staff  training  during  the
project would be held at the renovated Gagnoa center and using a mobile
unit provided under the project for giving short refresher sessions to
field staff.  In order to implement its reorganization program outside the
Center-West it is expected that SATMACI would strengthen its training
staff and facilities in other regions leaving the Gagnoa center available
in priority  for  the  project's  training  requirements.    An  assurance
to that effect was obtained from Government during negotiations.
3.27      Cooperative Development.  About 300 GVCs (Groupement a Vocation
Cooperative) have been created by ONPR (Office National de Promotion
Rurale) but for lack of means and financing (only 8 ONPR agents), these
GVCs have very limited seasonal activities, mainly during coffee and cocoa
marketing.  The quantities marketed by the GVCs represent less than 10% of
the area production (para 5.02).   Under the project the team of agents
would be strengthened in order to fulfil a dual role of providing adequate
training to GVC and of assisting them with input supplies, crop marketing
and obtaining and managing group credit (i.e.   with general logistical
problems).
3.28      Since the recent winding up of ONPR, cooperative development
activities in the area would be taken over by a SATMACI Cooperative
Development Unit (CDU). At the start of the project 6 RC (Responsable de
Cooperatives) reporting to the Zone Chiefs would supervise 15 AsC
(Assistants de Cooperation). Starting in PY2, six additional AsC would be
recruited annually making a total of 39 AsC in PY5. It is assumed that the
first year each AsC with the assistance  of the RC would be able to train
and monitor 5 existing or new GVC and 10 the second year.  At project
completion about 360 GVC are expected to be under project supervision and
trained at various stages. The AsC would provide pre-training courses to
potential village secretary/treasurers capable of taking over GVC
management. An internationally recruited training officer and a marketing
officer would be hired to assure an adequate training program both for GVC
and for CDU staff themselves.
3.29      Farmer Groups.  The development of farmer groups would occur at
two different levels: (i) small ad-hoc groups which would be constituted
around a closely-supervised contact farmer who was willing to try out a
solution to a farming problem common to the whole group; and (ii) pre-
cooperative groups (GVC) to facilitate primary marketing of their crops,
credit distribution and recovery, and financing of commonly owned
productive assets such as storage sheds, trucks for marketing and small-
scale mechanized equipment  such as power tillers and threshers.   The
constitution of ad-hoc groups would normally be at the initiative of the
agricultural extension worker whenever he judged that a particular
production problem or opportunity was of interest to a number of farmers
and that one such farmer had the ability to serve as a demonstration
farmer.
3.30      Inputs Distribution.  Farmers could obtain their supplies (para
3.21) either from the five warehouses (CAP) in the area operated by
SATMACI's Commercial Division (DC) or through private retailers in the



- 21 -
towns. Some institutional support for staffing of DC headquarters would be
provided under the project (para 3.40). Within the project area farmers
and GVC would be assisted in planning and consolidating their inputs needs
by the extension and cooperative workers, but these staff would not
normally handle either physical inputs or cash. Delivery to villages would
be arranged from the DC warehouses, with GVC bulk orders receiving a
discount on transport and unit costs in accordance with a publicised
schedule. The purchase of six trucks for DC, Center-West region would be
financed to assure its ability to make deliveries on time.
3.31      Support for Farm Mechanization.   To maintain and repair power
tillers and the threshers, three workshops would be installed and operated
in the project area. Each will be headed by a senior mechanic assisted by
a mechanic. The farmer would pay the cost price for spare parts but labor
for repair would be free of charge and funded under the project.   In
addition, the training service would organize a program to train extension
agents, operators and farmers in the operation and maintenance of the
equipment, so that in the future maintenance service could be provided by
the private sector.   DRU (para 3.32) would also conduct tests of other
potentially suitable equipment  for on-farm  transport  and post-harvest
operations (such as a mechanical cocoa pod-splitter) in conjunction with
CIMA, an existing farm machinery testing center supported by CCCE.
3.32      Applied Research.   Under the proposed project a Development
Research Unit (DRU) would be created which would carry out on-farm studies
with base data analysis and agronomic field trials under a controlled
environment on three experimentation sites of 6 ha each and under real
conditions on farms.  The need to organize an efficient program of field
trials and demonstration is urgent because little has been done in the
forest zone regarding the improvement of food crop production.  IDESSA's
only sub-station in the area at Cagnoa has carried out a limited research
program because of lack of funds. DRU would act as the main link between
the project and the agricultural research institutes (IFCC and IDESSA).
3.33      The agronomic field trial program would be relatively simple,
avoiding the degree of sophistication found on research stations. It would
aim at testing research findings under controlled conditions on field
trial sites as well as under real smallholder conditions. It would also
function as a two-way communication channel between researchers, extension
staff,  and  farmers.    Field  experiments  have  to  show  what  can  be
accomplished under the conditions of crop rotation which environment and
limited manpower resources impose on the farmer.  Demonstrations on both
individual holdings and field trials sites using IDESSA's recommendations
on improved seed, inputs and technology would also play an important part
in teaching extension agents and farmers. The trials regarding perennial
crop (coffee, cocoa and coconuts) and their association with food crops
would not be carried out in the proposed field trials sites, but only on
farmer's plots. In addition to the agronomical experimentation different
agricultural equipment would be tested such as power tillers and threshers
for irrigated rice cultivation, sprayers, cocoa pod splitting machines,
and rice hullers. For this purpose a mechanic and a mechanic assistant
would be hired. Full details of the DRU program are given in SWP No.7.



- 22 -
3.34      The DRU would consist of: (i) an agro-technical section which
would be charged with implementing field trials and related studies, and
(ii) an agro-economic section which would carry out baseline farm
management studies as well as evaluation of the pilot village program.
Management of DRU would be assured by a contract to be concluded between
SATMACI and CIRES providing for the services of an experienced agro-
economist as head of DRU, the analysis of data to be collected by the
enumerators of the agro-economic section and short-term consultancies to
study special problems revealed under the pilot village program. The terms
and conditions of this contract would be subject to prior review by the
Bank. CIRES, an economic research institute attached to the University of
Abidjan, has special expertise and prior knowledge of the area which make
it uniquely suitable for carrying out this work.
3.35      Monitoring and Evaluation.   The importance of the project for
reorienting SATMACI's work and the experience of the previous Bank
projects (Cocoa I and II) create a particular need for an effective
evaluation scheme. This would provide a dual service to project management
as a data collection, analysis and advisory unit, and to Government and co-
financiers as a source of information for effective project supervision
and assessment of performance.   Under the proposed project, the project
monitoring and evaluation unit (PMEU) would be headed by an experienced
Ivorian agro-economist who would report to the project manager. The PMEU
head would be assisted by a young agriculturist and would head a team of 5
supervisors and 25 permanent enumerators. At PY2 an economist specialized
in statistics would be hired.   PMEU would receive technical support in
survey design and methodology, and data analysis by a competent
experienced international institute or firm through consultancy missions
financed under the project (2 man-months/year).  The first such mission
should take place within three months of loan effectiveness and a detailed
program would be sent for Bank review and comments within three months
after this mission.
3.36      After basic training during the start up year the PMEU would
conduct a short preliminary survey of the project area as a trial run for
the enumerator staff.  After complementary training when necessary, the
PMEU would undertake a more formal baseline survey, to provide precise
information on the farming systems practised in the project area and pre-
development crop yields and inputs. A continued survey of crop yields and
inputs would be maintained during implementation but priority attention
would be given to evaluate all the agricultural components and the
effectiveness of the extension service. The PMEU would maintain a central
data bank of basic planning and progress information, and would keep a
detailed record of management decisions and reasons for any departure from
original proposals.
3.37      PMEU would report quarterly to the Project Manager on results of
its regular field surveys amongst project farmers and annually, to the
Project Manager, Government and donor agencies, giving an analytic
assessment of progress on the agricultural components of the project
against appraisal forecasts and discussing any technical problems
encountered in implementation.   PMEU would also prepare  the detailed
documentary data required for a comprehensive mid-term evaluation of the



- 23 -
project, and for a possible follow-up feasibility study.  PMEU would, in
addition, be responsible for drafting a project completion report at the
end of the disbursement period, with the help of consultants financed
under the project (para 3.44).
E. Institutional Support
3.38      Project   Management   Unit.        Bearing   in  mind   SATMACI's
reorganization (para 1.08) and transition period, project activities would
be implemented under the auspices of a Center-West Project Management Unit
(PMU) to be set up as SATMACI's regional office at Daloa. Such PMU would
be headed by a Project Manager who would also be regional director,
assisted by an internationally recruited technical director and a financial
controller, both hired under the project, and would be responsible for
assuring  coordination  of  all  project  activities.    Through  SATMACI's
General Manager the project manager would report to the Ministry of
Agriculture's DPBCG, which at the national level would monitor project
implementation. The technical director would have line responsibility for
implementation of the agricultural development components of the project,
including the pilot village unit.   Recruitment of a suitable Project
Manager and Technical Director under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para 7.02).
3 39      PMJ  would  control  and  disburse  funds  needed  for  project
investment and operating costs by all services charged with carrying out
project activities. To do so it would dispose of a Bank accounc at Daloa,
which would periodically be replenished by CAA (para 4.09) in accordance
with  requirements  as  per  approved  operating  budgets.    Although  the
proposed procedure would constitute a departure from SATMACI's established
operating practices, it is deemed necessary to permit a clear financial
separation of project and non-project activities within SATMACI's
accounts.  Moreover, past experience has demonstrated that the original
system  with  almost   exclusive   decision-making  power   and   funding
concentrated at HQ at Abidjan is not suited to the timely implementation of
a regional agricultural development project of this nature. Flow of funds
arrangements would be set out in the Convention to be signed between
Government and SATMACI (para 4.10 and 7.02).
3.40      Commercial Division.   Under SATMACI's  interim reorganization
measures  (para  1.08)  its  Commercial  Division  (DC)  is  to  become
administratively autonomous and financially self-supporting. While in the
past it has, through SATMACI's "Centres d'Approvisionnement des Planteurs"
(CAP), provided a wide variety of agricultural inputs and small equipment,
it would in future only provide a line of essential products required in
sizeable quantities  and at commercially realistic prices.   DC rightly
contends that for more specialized equipment it is in no position to
compete with private traders who maintain adequate stocks in the main towns
of the area.  In order to become self-financing DC would by PY3 include
adequate margins in its sales prices to cover its own overheads and
operating costs. However, it would need to be provided by Government with
initial operating capital, estimated at about CFAF 250 million. This would



- 24 -
be provided by Government by June 30, 1982 (in addition to its contribu-
tion to project costs), and an assurance to this effect was obtained during
negotiations (para 7.01).
3.41      The Commercial Division would be run by a manager, assisted by an
accountant to be recruited under the project. For financial control of DC
the project's Financial Controller would advise on proper accounting,
stock and liquidity management (para 4.20). It is estimated that for this
purpose he would have to stay about one week every two months in Abidjan at
the Commercial Division's main offices.
3.42      BNDA.   It is expected that project induced activities would
create a rise in the demand for formal credit to finance farm inputs and
equipment in the Center-West area. It is forecast that BNDA would issue
short and medium-term loans for approximately 50% of the total value of
inputs and equipment needed by farmers under the project, or about CFAF 1.9
billion (US$ 7.1 million) over five years, among about 15,000 borrowing
farmers. Coupled with the transfer to BNDA of SATMACI's existing portfolio
of long-term cocoa planting loans (para 1.12) this would place an
additional burden on BNDA's regional offices in the project area.  While
the Daloa, Gagnoa and Oume offices are sufficiently staffed and equipped to
handle the additional work, the recently opened Vavoua and Issia branch
offices would require strengthening by the addition of staff, vehicles and
initial operating costs. These would be required in PY2.
3.43      BNDA is presently extending mainly short-term credit  in the
project area for a variety of purposes such as:   commercialization of
produce, maintenance of plantations and schooling. The interest rate for
such short-term credit is presently 13.5% per annum. The Gagnoa, Daloa and
Oume offices have been financing these short-term credits from deposits by
GVCs and individual farmers, which have in the past exceeded total
outstanding credits. BNDA has also a rediscount facility with the Central
Bank (BCEAO) and there is no need for external financing.   Government
would, however, enter into an agreement with BNDA (Arrangements) that
would specify inter alia that it would make available to BNDA sufficient
funds to provide loans to farmers for the purpose of the project.
Signature of this agreement (Arrangements) between Government and BNDA, on
terms satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness (para
7.02(b).
3.44      Studies.  Funds would be made available to MINAGRI to finance a
total of 20 man-months of short-term consultants required to carry out
specialized studies of problems arising during project implementation, to
prepare a mid-term evaluation report, and to contribute to the preparation
of a Project Completion Report.  Studies are particularly likely to be
needed in connection with evaluating technical results of the pilot test
zone components, in analyzing food crops marketing problems, opportu-
nities, in reviewing staff training programs and results, in studying
socio-economic and institutional aspects of development in the area and in
offering farmers incentives for the use of improved methods to ferment and
dry cocoa under the cocoa quality promotion campaign (para 3.11).



- 25 -
IV. COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      Total financing required for the Project is estimated at CFAF
14.9 billion (US$55.1 million) over five years with a foreign exchange
component of 34% or CFAF 5 billion (US$18.6 million). This includes CFAF
5.7 billion (US$20.9 million) representing the present level of expendi-
tures incurred by SATMACI in the project area, so that the project cost on
an incremental basis is CFAF 9.2 billion (US$34.2 million) of which CFAF
3.1 billion (US$11.6 million) or 34% is foreign exchange cost and CFAF 1.4
billion (US$5.6 million) or 15% represent custom duties and identifiable
taxes.
4.02      Cost estimates are based on end-1981 prices and include physical
contingencies of 15% on civil works; 10% on operating expenses and 5% on
other costs except wages, salaries, and technical assistance; and price
contingencies based on the following projections:
Expected Price Increases:
Annual Rates %                1982       1983      1984       1985       1986
Local Costs                   12         12        12         12         12
Foreign Costs                  8.5        7.5       7.5        7.5        6.0
The higher price escalation factors on local costs are based on estimated
annual inflation for the Ivory Coast taking account of the composition of
local costs. Cost estimates were made in CFAF and converted to US$ at an
exchange rate of CFAF 270 = US$1.00. Total contingencies are equivalent to
42% of baseline cost estimates, or 30% of total costs of the project.
Detailed cost estimates are presented in Annex 2, Table 1 and are
summarized in Table 1.
B. Proposed Financing
4.03      As indicated above (para 3.01) one of the objectives of the
proposed project is to try to establish valid solutions to the principal
resource constraints facing agriculture in the forest zone, that can
eventually be replicated by SATMACI in its other five regions. Thus, cost



- 26 -
Table 1:  Summary of Total Cost of the Project
- US$ Million. (at 2-D)
CFAF Million        x       1        Net
Total        Taxes    F.E.    Local    Taxes    F.E.    Total
1.  SATHACI
Project Management Unit                                    749.9          19        39       1.1      0.5       1.2      2.8
Extension Service                                        3,084.9          17        16      7.7       1.9       1.8    11.4
Pilot Zones Extension Unit                                 478.1          18        27       1.0      0.3       0.5      1.8
Cooperative Development Unit                             1,026.5          19        31       1.9      0.7       1.2      3.8
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit                             518.0          17        14       1.3       0.3       0.3     1.9
DRU, Agro-economic Section                                 247.0          18        41      0.3       0.2       0.4      0.9
DRU, Agronomic Section                                     275.9          18        30      0.5       0.2       0.3      1.0
Staff Training                                             326.1          19        41      0.5       0.2       0.5      1.2
Field Workshops                                             41.4          14        29      0.2          -1/       -1/   0.2
Agricultural Infrastructure:
- Outside Test Zones                                     482.9         14        66       0.3       0.3       1.2      1.8
- Test Zones                                             434.9         13        56       0.4       0.2       1.0      1.6
Farma Inputs and Equipment:
- Outside Test Zones                                   2,176.4         16        55       2.4       1.3       4.4      8.1
- Test Zones                                             390.9         16        52       0.5       0.2       0.7      1.4
TOTAL SATMACI                                           10,232.9          17        35     18.0       6.4      13.5    37.9
2. BNDA
Expansion of Branch Offices                                144.8         17          9      0.4       0.1          -i/   0.5
3. MINAGRI
Short-term Studies                                          60.0          -       100         -         -       0.2      0.2
TOTAL BASE COST                                         10,437.7         17        35      18.4       6.5      13.7    38.6
4, Contingencies: - Physical                                   431.2          17        57       0.4      0.3        0.9     1.6
- Price                                 4,007.9          12        27       9.1       1.8       4.0    14.9
Sub-total                             4,439.1          13        30      9.5       2.1       4.9    16.5
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                                14,876.8         16        34      27.9       8.6      18.6    55.1
5.  Less:  Present Level expenditures                        5,700.0          16        33     10.        3.4       7.0    20.9
6. TOTAL PROJE.CT COST                                       9,176.8          16        34     17.4       5.2      11.6    34.2
1/ Less than US$0.05 million.



- 27 -
estimates  include  the full program of activities  to be undertaken by
SATf'ACI  in the  Center-West  region--with  appropriate modifications--in
order to (i) ensure that the technical reorganization of SATMACI's service
is carried out and (ii) to avoid a duality of management and extension
structure irn the project area.
4.04      However, to arrive at the incremental cost to Government, it is
assumed that without the project SATMACI would have continued to invest
at present level of expenditures in the Center-West area ; this is estimated
by prorating SATMACI's total 1981 budget (PYO) to the project area,
resulting in an amount of CFAF 5.7 billion (US$20.9 million) during
the project period. On this basis incremental project costs are estimated
at CFAF 9.2 billion  (US$34.2 million).   These costs would be jointly
financed by loans from the Bank (US$13.0 million) and CCCE (US$4.0 million
equivalent), CFAF 2.4 billion (US$8.9 million) from Government and CFAF
2.2 billion (US$8.3 million) by BNDA for farmers' inputs.  These amounts
include pre-project training costs (US$330,000) of which 75% (US$250,000)
are being rinanced by the Bank under its PPF. Joint external financing of
US$17.0 million would cover 50% of project costs or the foreign exchange
cost (Us$11.6 million) and 24% of local costs. The proposed financing plan
is shown in Table 2.
4.05      In order to insure timely execution of the project under the
country's present budgetary difficulties, Government has also requested
CCCE assistance in financing SATMACI extension activities that would have
been maintained in the project area without the project. CCCE has approved
loan financing equivalent to US$11.0 million for this purpose.  Thus the
CFAF 5.7 billion (US$20.9 million) of present expenditures in the area
would be jointly financed by Government CFAF 1.1 billion (US$4.1 million),
farmers, CFAF 1.6billion(US$5.8 million) and CCCE, CFAF 3.0 billion (US$11.0
mil lion) .
4.06      The  Bank  financing  of  US$13.0  million  would  be  loaned  to
Government for a term of 17 years including a four-year grace period, at an
interest rate of 11.6% per annum.  The CCCE financing of CFAF 81 million
(US$15.0 million) would be loaned at an interest rate of 52% p.a. for a
term of 17 years including a five years grace period.  The fulfilment of
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the CCCE loan would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan (para 7.02).
4.07      Combined external funds amounting to US$28.0 million equivalent
and Government funds amounting to US$13.0 million, including US$6.6
million taxes on project expenditures, would be passed on as grant
financing to SATMACI (US$40.0 million) and BNDA (US$0.8 million), to cover
total financing required for the project.   On-lending to SATMACI would
not be appropriate for the purposes envisaged under the project, which
would only generate direct revenue for other public sector agencies such as
CSSPPA (para 1.10). Also on-lending to BNDA is not deemed appropriate,
since the funds would be used to supplement BNDA's working capital for
purposes of extending activities into new areas which would not initially
be profitable.   US$0.2 million would be made available to MINAGRI to



Table 2: Proposed Financing Plan 1/
(Uis$ '000)
TOTAL COST OF PROJECT ------ PPF ------    ---------- Joint Financing ------------
Category of E,;pend.       Total get of Taxes  IBRD    Government  Sub-Total  IBRD               CCCE   Government  BNDA/Farmers
1.  SATMACI
a) Civil l2ork         5,250   4,460           15          10        5,225    2,600           860       1,765
b) Vehicles            2,270   1,265           40          25        2,205         -          995       1,210
c) Local Salaries
and Operating
Costs            10,900   9,580           80          45       10,775    6,300         1,100        3,375           -
d) Aerial Photo-
graphy & Mapping   300        250          -           -           300       150          50          100           -
e) Equipment           1,080      875           -           -        1,080       750           25         305            -
2.  BNDA                      800      670          -           -           800       380         150          270            -
3.  Technical Assistance 4,550   3,600            115           -        4,435    2,120           675       1,640             -
Go
4.  Consultants' Services  750         750          -            -          750       450         145          155            -
5.  Agricultural IgLuts  8,250   7,100              -           -        8,250         -           -                      8,250
TOTAL PROJECT COST  34,150  28,550           250           80       33,820   12,750        4,000        8,820 2/    8,250 4/
6. Plus: Present level
expenditures       20,900  17,900           -            -      20,900         -       11,000        4,100        5,800
TOTAL FINANCING REQD. 55,050  46,450            250           80       54,720   12,750       15,000      12,920  3/  14,050
Percentage
Financing
- Project Cost                              1                                  37           12          26            24
- Net of Taxes                              1            -                     44           14          16            25
- Total Financing Required                  -            -                     24           27          24            25
- Net of Taxes                              -            -                     28           32          14            26
1/ Based on exchange rate of US$1.00=CFAF 270.
2/ Includes taxes of US$4.0 million,
3/ Includes taxes of US$6.5 million,
4/ Includes taxes of US$1.6 million.
5/ Includes taxes of US$2.0 million.



- 29 -
finance the costs of foreign consultants for short-term studies connected
with  the project  (para 3.44).    Proposed  disbursement  categories  and
amounts for the Bank loan are shown in para 4.16 below.
4.08      The remaining project costs consist of farm inputs and equipment
needed for the project and costing a total of US$14.1 million, or US$12.1
million net of taxes and import duties. The full economic cost of these
inputs would be paid for by farmers, who would obtain their supplies from
the source most convenient to them, either from SATMACI's Commercial
Division (DC), or from the private sector (para 3.20). In either case such
purchases would be eligible for credit financing by BNDA. It is estimated
that about 65% of such inputs and equipment would be purchased on credit,
resulting in an incremental financing requirement by BNDA of about US$8.3
million (US$7.1 million net of taxes).  This would not require external
financing because adequate domestic funds are available to BNDA through
the banking system (para 3.43). An estimated US$5.8 million of inputs and
equipment (US$5.0 million net) would be purchased on cash terms and
financed by participating farmers themselves.
C. Pre-Financing Requirements
4.09      Government  would  prefinance  project  expenditures  out  of  a
revolving fund to be set up at CAA for this purpose. The amounts required
would be determined according to quarterly investment and operating
budgets prepared by the project management unit and included in the
national investment budget. The required fund would amount to about
CFAF 1.2 billion (US$4.4 million), equivalent to about six months of
project expenditures, and would be jointly financed by advances from CCCE,
Government and the Bank in amounts pro-rata to their shares of total
financing, net of taxes. Establishment of the revolving fund account and
deposit by Government of its contribution would be a condition of effecti-
veness (para 7.02 (e)).   For purposes of verification of statement of
expenditures against which the Bank would replenish its share of the revol-
ving fund, Government would maintain a separate sub-account with CAA for
the US$1.7 million advanced by the Bank.
4.10      SATMACI would draw on the revolving fund held by CAA to replenish
a project bank account kept at Daloa and used to pay local salaries and
other operating expenses.   These pre-financing arrangements designed to
minimise cash-flow problems which have affected SATMACI's earlier projects
financed by the Bank, would be included in a Convention between Government
and SATMACI, signature of which on terms satisfactory to the Bank, would be
a  condition  of  effectiveness  (para  7.02).    During  negotiations  an
assurance was also obtained from Government, that it would provide
additional working capital (CFAF 250 million) by June 30, 1982 to pre-
finance the operating expenditures of SATMACI's Commercial Division (paras
3.40 and 7.01).



- 30-
D. Procurement
4.11      Works.   The construction of staff houses and offices,  field
workshops, bottomlands development, as well as of access tracks and water-
points in the pilot zone, totalling US$5.3 million, of which the Bank would
finance US$2.6 million, consists of contracts worth less than US$0.5
million each, scattered throughout the project area and unlikely to
interest foreign construction companies. These works would be procured by
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank, with
foreign bidders having the opportunity to participate.
4.12      Goods.    Equipment  for  SATMACI  including  power  tillers  and
threshers, totalling about US$1.1 million of which the Bank would finance
about US$0.8 million, would be grouped as far as possible in appropriate
bidding packages and procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
according to Bank guidelines, or by local competitive procedure if
estimated to cost less than US$100,000. Procurement by ICB is estimated
to cover about US$0.6 million.
4.13      Services.  Contracts for 336 man-months of technical assistance
costing an average of US$13,500 per man-month including all benefits and
taxes, and 63 man-months of short-term consultants services costed at
US$11,900 per man-month, with a combined total value of US$5.3 million
(Bank US$2.1 million) would be procured from international consulting
firms or research institutes, in accordance with Bank and Government
procedures for international recruitment.  According to Ivory Coast law,
all technical assistance contracts are subject to income tax of up to 23%
maximum.  This income tax is included in the cost per man-month.  Aerial
photography, photo interpretation and mapping services for the pilot zone,
costing US$0.3 million (Bank US$150,000) would be procured through a
negotiated contract.
4.14      About US$26.7 million (Bank US$6.7 million) of project expendi-
tures, representing SATMACI and BNDA local staff salaries and operating
costs, would be committed in accordance with established Government
procedures. Farm inputs, chiefly herbicides, insecticides, fertilizers,
sprayers and pruning tools, estimated to cost US$14.1 million, are an
essential part of the project but would not be financed by the Bank.  They
would be prefinanced by the Commercial Division of SATMACI and other
distributors through short-term bank and suppliers credits and procured
through negotiated contracts with established suppliers, which would be
subject to post-review by the Bank.
4.15      Contract Review.   All works and goods contracts or packages,
estimated to cost over US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to the Bank's
prior review of procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of about
75% for the total estimated value of works contracts and about 80% of goods
contracts.   The balance of contracts and project expenditures would be
subject to random post review by the Bank.



- 31 -
E. Disbursements
4.16      Bank funds (US$13.0 million), except for refunding under the PPF
agreement, would be jointly disbursed with CCCE funds (US$15.0 million). A
projected disbursement schedule based on a standard Bank disbursement
profile for agricultural projects in Ivory Coast is given at Annex 2, Table
2. Bank funds disbursed over a 6-year period would cover:
Amount of Loan       % of Total
Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                                     Dollar Equivalent   Financed
1. SATMACI:
a)  Civil Works                           1,800,000                50
b)  Equipment                               580,000                70
c) Local Salaries and Operating
Costs                               4,670,000                25
d) Aerial Photography, Photo
Interpretation and Mapping            150,000                50
2. BNDA Local Salaries and
Operating Costs                           300,000                50
3.  Technical Assistance                      1,650,000                 50
4.  Consultants Services                        400,000                 50
5.  Contribution to Revolving Fund            1,700,000                -
6.  Refunding of PPF Advance                    250,000                100
7.  Unallocated                               1,500,000
TOTAL                        13,000,000
Disbursements against expenditures for civil works, vehicles and
equipment, technical assistance and consultants services would be fully
documented. Disbursements for purposes of replenishing the Bank's share
of the revolving fund (to be utilized to prefinance local salaries and
project operating costs incurred by SATMACI and BNDA) would be against
certified  statements  of expenditure.   Full  supporting  documentation,
showing costs incurred by category, would be retained for inspection by the
Bank during project supervision.   Since this would be the third Bank
project it executes, SATMACI has the required experience to deal with
statements of expenditure.



- 32 -
4.17      The Financial and Administrative Director to be recruited and
posted to the Project Management Unit in Daloa would, in addition to his
other responsibilities, prepare, expedite and obtain necessary approvals
of withdrawal applications against external financing, and maintain all
statements of expenditures.
F. Flow of Funds
4.18      To shorten the time lag between expenditures incurred and their
reimbursement by co-financiers, Government has agreed to undertake prior
to project inception, a thorough review of existing reimbursement
procedures with all agencies concerned with the execution of the project.
Such review would focus primarily on eliminating costly delays incurred
during internal verifications of withdrawal applications, with a view to
shortening the present average of 15 months between expenditures and
submission of withdrawal applications to a period not exeeding 6 months.
The result of this on-going review and proposals for a speedier, simplified
procedure will be discussed with the co-financiers.
G. Financial Control, Audit and Reporting Requirements
4.19      SATMACI  would,  within  the  context  of  its general  financial
management, keep records consistent with sound accounting practice and
adequate to reflect both its overall financial situation and the detailed
costs of operating of the project components executed by it (para 4.07).
In addition, the PMU at Daloa would keep project analytical cost accounts
to allow it to derive necessary information for budgetary purposes. With
the help of the project's Financial Controller SATMACI would ensure that
the accounts and inventories maintained by its Commercial Division were
correctly kept.
4.20      SATMACI's private external auditor (presently Arthur Andersen &
Co., Abidjan) would conduct an annual audit of project accounts as well as
of all statements of expenditures against which reimbursements by co-
financiers were made.   SATMACI's external auditor, apart from reviewing
annual accounts, has in the past also advised on accounting systems, data
processing and financial structure.  Under the interim reorganization of
SATMACI, the Ministry of Finance has already appointed a "Controleur
budgetaire" who will assure internal auditing in accordance with the laws
prevailing for public enterprises, which are exacting and rigorous.
4.21      BNDA would keep separate records for the project funds utilized
to expand its Vavoua and Issia branch offices and for financing credit to
farmers. Its annual audit reports, also prepared by private independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, would include statements certifying that
project funds had been properly utilized in accordance with the Project



- 33 -
Agreement. All project accounts and audit reports would be sent to the
Bank not later than six months after the closing of SATMACI and BNDA's
financial years.
4.22      SATMACI would prepare and submit to Government and the Bank
quarterly project progress reports for the Pilot Village Component and
six-monthly reports for the rest of the project. Such reports would show
actual against budgeted expenditures, statements of physical progress
achieved and objectives for the forthcoming period. The reports would also
contain summary financial information indicating the levels of any short-
term borrowings and of any outstanding receivables (arrears) from
Government or other bodies with respect to budgetary allocations for the
project or for other purposes. BNDA would include in its annual progress
reports statements indicating the progress achieved towards the strength-
ening of its Vavoua and Issia branch offices, a breakdown of seasonal and
other credits extended to project farmers and of repayments due and
outstanding, and information on progress in the area of its various savings
and deposit schemes.



- 34 -
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production
5.01      The  project  would  have  a  significant  impact  on  the area's
production of robusta coffee, upland and swamp rice, and maize.   There
would also be small increases in production of coconuts, groundnuts and
yams as a result of pilot actions and an insignificant increase in cocoa
production, (less than 0.5 percent of Ivory Coast production) due mainly to
rehabilitation of 4,500 ha of young cocoa planted on blocks under the
Second Cocoa Development Project. Increased production levels of rice and
other food crops would be reached by PY5, while additional production of
tree crops would not be fully reached until about PY12. Estimated tonnages
are shown below, compared with estimated total production in 1980 in Ivory
Coast and in the Center-West. These figures represent the expected direct
effects of production programs included under the project, compared with a
without-project situation. There would probably also be further increases
in agricultural output in the area as an indirect response to improved
extension, logistic and credit services.
Expected Production Impact of Project
Estimated 1980 Production 1/               Incremental Production
Ivory Coast    Center-West                     Due to Project
Coffee          295,000 t      60,000 t                  14,700t         (PYll)
Cocoa           365,000 t      75,000 t                   1,500t         (PY12)
Coconuts      130 million nuts   na.                     2 million nuts (PY13)
Paddy           540,000 t      80,000 t                  12,500 t        (PY5)
Maize       2/  280,000 t      25,000 t                   5,500 t        (PY5)
Groundnuts -    55,000 t        2,000 t                     400 t        (PY5)
Yams          2,130,000 t    140,000 t                      600 t        (PY5)
1/ Average 1979-81;
2/ In shell.



- 35 -
B. Marketing
5.02      Coffee.      The   internal  marketing   system  was  completely
reorganized in 1979/80. Coffee is now purchased from smallholder growers
in the form of dried cherry ('cafe coque') and is hulled and sorted at
large scale factories, of which four are in the project area (Map No.
16021). This saves growers the time and expense of village hulling and
sorting of coffee beans, and has improved the average hulling rate by about
3 percentage points, representing an additional 20,000 t of saleable
coffee at the national level. Collection of dry cherry ('cafe coque') from
the villages is mostly carried out by private buyers and agents in
association with the hulling factories.  Efforts would be made under the
project (para 3.27) to increase the participation of village cooperatives
(GVC) in coffee marketing, presently less than 10%, where these show
themselves to be efficient.  GVC receive a margin for truckload deliveries
to the factory (presently CFAF 12 per kg) which is more than sufficient to
cover normal costs of handling and hired transport.
5.03      After grading and inspection,  supervised by CSSPA, nearly all
coffee is exported as beans, only about 15,000 t per year being locally
consumed or processed into instant coffee.   Ivory Coast coffee exports
averaged 4.35 million bags (261,000 metric tons) during 1977-79, including
about 10,000 t per year of soluble coffee.  This included annual exports
averaging 0.4 million bags (23,000 t) to non-member countries of the
International Coffee Organization (ICO). At the 36th session of the ICO
council in September 1981, Ivory Coast was granted a 20 percent increase in
its coffee export quota for the 1981/82 season, to 4.20 million bags
(252,000 t).  Ivory Coast pools its export quota with a group of other
francophone African producing countries, including notably Cameroon and
Madagascar (OAMCAF), which provides a degree of flexibility for
reallocation of export quotas in the event of an exceptionally heavy crop.
The OAMCAF robusta coffee export quota for 1981/82 has been set at
7,162,000 bags (430,000 t). Future increases in country quotas are subject
to negotiation under the terms of the Agreement and cannot be reliably
predicted, but there are prospects for a modest growth in global quota
levels in the medium term of possibly 1.2% p.a.
5.04      The proposed project would not cause Ivory Coast's ICO coffee
export quotas to be exceeded because the expected incremental production
would mostly compensate for declining yields in older plantings and in
marginal areas.   The average age structure of coffee trees within the
Center-West region is slightly younger than the national average
(particularly in Daloa, the northern part) but there are still about 35,000
ha (21.5%) of pure stand or medium-density coffee which in 1974-75 were
already over 25 years old. The coffee pruning program (31,700 ha at full
development) would deal with about 40% of the areas' coffee in the 10-25
year age bracket, which if left untreated would typically begin to decline
in yield from about its tenth year. The planting program of 10,000 ha of
selected coffee clones (para 3.07) would aim to replace some of the 35,000



- 36 -
ha of the older and poorer coffee (25 years or more) wi'h higher-yielding,
well managed smallholders' plantations on the better soils.  If successful
such plantations would serve to demonstrate the possibilities to farmers
of maintenance of their incomes in face of declining world prices through
intensification of production and also by di4ersification out of cocoa,
for which the world market prospects are even worse than for coffee. The
project would also support a gradual regional and local concentration of
coffee production towards the most suitable ecological areas, reducingthe
rate of encroachment on forest reserves and freeing up land for food crops
production.  The project would not cause an increase in coffee supply in
the near term, in fact some production would initially be lost through the
pruning program.   Of the expected 14,700 ic project-generated output in
1995, it is estimated that about two-thirds, or 10,000 t, could be considered
as  replacement  of  old  coffee  taken  out  of  production  in  marginal
areas.   Therefore,  only about 5,000  t wouald represent an increase in
the national coffee production; this is equivalent to only 1.8% of
the  country'  production,  and  less  than  10%  of  its  typical  annual
fluctuation -  and cannot therefore be considered as significant.
5.05      Cocoa.   The internal marketing arLd exporting of cocoa is also
carried out by the private sector, under quality control and export price
stabilization by CSSPA. Marketing and transport operations for cocoa and
coffee, with a combined production volume of about 0.75 million tons in
1981, involve considerable resources and generate a large part of total
employment in non-agricultural sectors of the economy.   However, unlike
coffee, cocoa preparation (pod-splitting, bean fermentation and drying) is
carried out entirely by individual growers and not at modern factories.
These might heip to improve cocoa quality but it would be difficult to
organize delivery of the raw material (pods or wet beans) on an economic
basis.   Cooperatives participate to a large extent (over 30%) in cocoa
primary marketing in some of the older cocoa-growing districts in the east
of the country such as Abengourou and Agboville, but for less than 10% in
Daloa and Gagnoa. Efforts under the project to better organize and train
the GVC would help them to perform more successfully. Farmers would also
be encouraged to improve their cocoa fermentation and drying practices,
which are the origin of quality problems.   Government would conduct a
promotion campaign and relevant studies (para 3.11, 3.44) to encourage
farmers to purchase plastic fermentation boxes which have been designed
and tested by IFCC and recently put on the market by a new local
fabrication plant.
5.06      Rice.  The collection, milling and distribution of rice has been
a major problem area for Government ever since it adopted a new price
structure in 1974-75. This had the effect of rapidly diverting paddy
1/  Standard deviation of national production 1961-80 is 57,500 t coffee
beans, with a coefficient of variation of 0.24.



- 37 -
deliveries from the small-scale private hulling sector to the Government-
owned mills. In the longer term it has also encouraged dependence on rice
for daily consumption amongst the urban population leading to increased
imports which may reach about 300,000 t in 1982. It also created a large
structural financial deficit for rice milling and marketing operations,
which have consequently never been adequately financed.   The dispropor-
tionate increase in the producer price for paddy (from 28 to 65 CFAF/kg at
farmgate) also tended at first to encourage over-investment in rice
production at the expense of other crops.   Later, however,  it led to
disenchantment by rice growers when the official purchase price and
marketing system could no longer be supported at village level and total
production has probably declined by about 10% from its peak of about
600,000 t reached in 1976.
5.07      The structural deficit in the official price structure for rice
led to the dissolution of SODERIZ in 1977. Since then a number of ad hoc
arrangements have been tried for coordinating rice extension, inputs
delivery and credit recovery with primary marketing and milling, involving
at various times SATMACI and CIDT, AGRIPAC (now defunct) and OCPA (an
agency of the Ministry of Commerce).  None has worked well, one of the
reasons being that the problem of assuring timely finance for crop purchase
and milling operations was never resolved. Individual agencies did their
best to alleviate the problems but often it took too long for cash payments
or recommended inputs to reach the farmers. Many of them either turned to
the private sector for their needs or else limited their production to
subsistence requirements.
5.08      Since  early  1981  the Government  has  taken two major  steps
towards resolving the problems of the rice sector. First, it announced a
30% increase in the consumer price of rice (to CFAF 130/kg). The revised
formula will reduce the Government deficit on rice milling and marketing
operations by about 50%, from an estimated 65 to 32 CFAF per kg of milled
rice.  At the present price for paddy (CFAF 60 per kg), rice is no longer a
privileged crop for the farmer and any further price adjustments needed to
widen the milling margin will have to be at the consumer's end of the
chain.   In fact, under the SAL (para 1.04), Government has provided an
assurance that the consumer price of rice will be increased further in line
with general inflation.
5.09      However,  the  need  for  further  additional  increases  in  the
consumer price of rice would be reduced if cost savings could be achieved
at the transformation and distribution stages. As a result of work done by
the Inter-ministerial committee on food crops ( Comite de Reflexion et de
Concertation sur les Produits Vivriers, CRCPV) it is apparent that such
reductions would be possible.   Consequently, Government has taken the
second major step of authorizing MINAGRI to launch an international tender
for private companies to bid for operation of the 11 rice mills, including
responsibility for organizing paddy collection in their respective supply
zones.  Negotiations are underway with interested private companies and



- 38
Government has pro-vided the Bank with an assurance that the reorganized
system  of paddy  co.llection  and -.milling  in the  project  area  will  be
implemented by October 3i-  1982  in time ;4or the end-1982 rice marketing
season (para 701).
5.10      Other Food Crons.  For maize, groundnuts and yams there are no
official irices in effect and marketing is entirely in the hands of the
private  trade, wnich operates  freely,  subject  to some  administrative
controls,    Prolect  incremental  production  is  expected  to  be  mainly
absorbed within th.e Center-West region anl its principal urban markets.
The CDU marketing of ficer would provide assistance in arranging for food
crop sales by GV%1,
5.11      Coconuts.   At the pilot scale of development proposed,  the
expected production of 2 million fresh ntuts (PY13) would find a ready
market at renumerative prices for sale as fresh coconuts, avoiding the need
for complicated marketing arrangements or local transformation into dried
copra.   The latter should still be feasible, however,  if farmers find
coconut to be a worthwhile diversification crop.  At present fresh nuts
sell for about CFAF 35 each in the area, about four times the price of nuts
bought by PALMINDUSTRIE, although the official price is expected to be
raised shortly.
C. Prices
5.l2      Coffee and Cocoa.   For boti of these crops world markets are
inelastic and prices volatile.  Nevertheless, exports of coffee and cocoa
remain the forestay of the Ivorian e:onomy, accounting for 60% of total
exports in 1979, despite successful diversification ventures into oil
palm, rubber and cotton and a growing industrial sector (para 1.02). The
sharp decline in world prices for coffee and cocoa in 1980-81 to below
US$2,000/t is the proximate cause of balance cf payments difficulties
experienced  by  Ivory  Coast.    World  prices  for  both  commodities  are
projected by the Bank to remain at low levels until the mid-1980s but a
strengthening of prices of around 10% is expected in the 1985-90 period.
For coffee the timing and extent of recovery depends largely on the growth
of supplies from Brazil.  For cocoa, the rate of continued plantings and
production in both Brazil and Ivory Coast, the world's two main producers
(each with about 24% of world production), are considered the main factors
in the market outlook,  since consumption is likely to grow very slowly
during the 1980s. At the present time it is considered that any additional
expansion of cocoa production by either country (over and above the rate of
growth in world consumption) cculd lead to negative marginal returns in
foreign exchange to these countries due to the depressing effect on inter-
national Drices.  For this reason the project would not include specific
measures to further increase cocoa plantings and production apart from
those described in para 3009-10.



- 39 -
5.13      However, Ivory Coast is a relatively less important supplier of
coffee on the world market, for which Bank forecasts also indicate somewhat
better prospects  than for cocoa - .  Subject to the timing of market
recovery there could be scope for an increase in the coffee producer price
of about 15% in real terms,  in order to maintain a reasonable balance
between  taxation  and  producer  incentives,  since 2yhe  estimated  net
protection coefficient based on 1981 prices is 0.51 - .  Government will
consider the opportunity of such a price adjustment in the light of market
conditions in 1982 and under the SAL action program has agreed to consult
with the Bank on the results of its review. Government would also consult
with the Bank on the possible payment of cash incentives for the
regeneration of old coffee trees. Such payments might be justified but it
would be preferable to delay their introduction until after the effects had
been evaluated of an increase in the producer price of coffee relative to
that of cocoa.
5.14      Food Crops.  Apart from rice, minimum producer prices for food
crops are not fixed by Government. No reliable series of producer prices
exist  although various market  surveys have been conducted.   However,
retail food prices at Abidjan and other markets are monitored monthly and
indices based on these prices would seem to indicate that the domestic
terms of trade between producing food crops and tree crops have been
shifting more strongly since 1975 towards food crops. With an average rate
of increase of food prices of 20% compared with 14% for tree crop producer
prices, a simple extrapolation of the 1975-80 trend would imply that by
1990 the relative terms of trade (food crops: tree crops) would have almost
doubled,  compared  with  the  late  1970s.    Implications  for  food  crop
profitability are obvious.
Price Indices for Coffee, Cocoa and Food Crops (1970   100)
Average
Rate of
1960   1965   1970   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979         1980   Increase
(% p.a.)
Tree Crops       94      91    100    186    186    206    286    286          333    7.0
Food Crops       65      75    100    149    160    224    249    303          365    8.8
1/ In 1990, 140 c/lb for coffee (Guatemalan prime washed) versus 97 c/lb
for cocoa (ICCO average), both in 1981 terms.
2/ Producer price for dried cherry of 150 (CFAF per kg), equivalent to 283
for beans (53%), compared with an economic farmgate value of 550, based on
FOB export value of 636 (SWP 11, Table 1).



- 40 -
D. Financial Results for Farmers
5.15      Farmers'  benefits were analyzed on the basis of illustrative
farm models for the Daloa and Gagnoa sub-regions (mixed tree crop and food
crop development) and for bottomland rice development. These farm models
and their underlying technical assumptions are shown in SWP3, Tables 62 and
65. The financial assumptions reflect input and output prices of mid-1981
at farmgate, adjusted in the case of coffee and cocoa to reflect changes in
real prices as projected by the Commodity and Export Projections Division
of the Bank (see SWP 11, Tables 1-4 for details).
5.16      Farmers' benefits in 1981 constant prices, returns per man-day
and financial return on investment are summarized in the following table:
Daloa        Gagnoa       Bottomland
(North)      (South)         Rice
------------- (CFAF'000)------------
1.  Average Farm Size (ha)                 7.64         6.11         2.0
2. Investment Cost
2.1  Without Project                 62.5         69.6          97.7
2.2  With ProjecL                   174.3        119.4         191.7
3.  Annual Farm Income I/
2/
3.1  Without Projei5 2'             577.8        462.3          92.4
3.2  With Project -                 992.2        822.0         121.8
3.3  Relative Increase (%)            72%          78%          32%
4. Net Return per Man-Day (CFAF)
7.1  Without Project              1,066        1,014          420
7.2  With Project                 1,277        1,263          597
1/ At full development.
2/ Including remuneration of family labor.



- 41 -
The resulting high financial rates of return on on-farm investment and
positive marginal labor returns indicate that it would be profitable to
farmers to adopt the more intensive farming systems offered under the
project.
E. Financial Results for Government
5.17      The Government cash-flow projection is given at Annex 2, Table
3. The cash flow includes as outflows all project costs except farm inputs
and includes continuation of extension, cooperative and logistic services
after the development period. Returns to Government on project activities
would arise from two principal sources: export taxes and CSSPA marketing
surpluses on incremental coffee production, and estimated taxes on project
costs. The cash flow excludes farmers' on-farm investment and input costs
and corresponding credit transactions between farmers  and BNDA.   The
Government cash-flow projection shows that income from the above two
sources would begin to exceed total costs of operating the project by PY7.
Over a 15-year period Government would, after financing recurrent project
costs during PY6-PY15, including debt servicing on external project
financing, derive a cumulative net cash flow in constant 1987 terms of some
CFAF 26,600 million (US$98.5 million).  For the impact of the project on
the cost-effectiveness of SATMACI, see para 6.08.
5.18      Cost  recovery  from  project  farmers  would  be  improved  over
previous projects by suppression of the cocoa planting grant (para 1.08),
elimination of input subsidies for coffee and cocoa (para 1.08) and for
irrigated rice (para 3.14).  There would be no direct cost recovery for
project investments in village land-use planning and infrastructure under
the pilot village  component.   Cost recovery would be introduced  for
bottomland  rice  development,  which  Government  has  until  now  not
implemented because of the land tenure situation (para 2.07) where most of
the bottomlands are cultivated by aliens under tenancy arrangements with
traditional owners. The possible methods for doing this are to be examined
as part of the general prices and subsidies study (SAL).  Government has
also provided an assurance at negotiations that, by June 30, 1983, it
would submit a proposal for assuring future maintenance of bottomland
investments with an adequate participation by beneficiaries (para 7.01).



- 42 -
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. General Summary
6.01      The proposed project has multiple objectives (para 3.01).  These
concern   agricultural   production,    institutional   development   and
pilot/research aspects.  The expected indirect benefits from the attempt
to launch an improved approach to serving smallholder farmers' technical,
logistic and organizational needs are as important as the expected direct
benefits from increased production, but they are difficult to quantify.
Only the increases in value of output of crops directly attributable to
project actions have been quantified in economic terms.   Nevertheless,
this value is sufficient to indicate that the project, taken as a whole and
including all costs and allowing for foreseeable risks, represents a
worthwhile investment for the economy.
B. Impact on the Project Area
6.09      Impact on Farmers.  Over a period of five years, it is estimated
that the project would involve about 28.000 farmers in technical
improvement programs for coffee, rice, maize and other food crops, of which
4,500 farmers would be concerned by special programs in the pilot test
zones.   By PY5 there should be about 360 GVC functioning properly under
project supervision, in about 60% of all the villages in the project area,
and an estimated 15,000 farmers (18%) would have obtained agricultural
loans from BNDA (para 3.42). For participating farmers typical increases
in net annual income would be between CFAF 29,000 (US$107) and CFAF 360,000
(US$1,333), or from 32 to 78 percent, depending on their farm size and mix
of activities. About 80% of beneficiary farmers would have holdings in the
range of 2-8 ha, the same as the average distribution in the Center West.
6.03      Social Aspects.   The  target group for the project is not a
homogenous mass of small farmers from the same background.   There are
important differences observable in regional and ethnic origin, language
and culture, agricultural tradition and aptitude, system of land tenure,
nutritional and crop preferences, rate of scholarisation, size of land
holding and in family income. These variations are relevant factors to the
project and have been taken into account in its preparation for instance,
in the pilot zones for land-use planning activities, and generally for
cooperative group (GVC) promotion and supervision.  The project management
and monitoring units would pay attention that farmers of different
regional origin had a fair opportunity to benefit from project
services  and incentives.   This might  involve,  for example,  referring
certain   land   tenure   disputes   to  the  appropriate   administrative
authorities.



- 43 -
6.04      Role of Women. The project extension service would make a first
attempt in the area to improve the productivity of women's agricultural
work. They would benefit in particular from improved monetary returns from
upland rice and maize cultivation.  A number of female extension agents
(CR) for food crops would be trained and recruited under the project, and
initially would work in the test zones (para 3.22).
6.05      Nutritional Impact.   The project would significantly increase
supplies of maize and rice, two important food crops consumed by the rural
and  urban  population  of  the  area.   No  evidence  has  been  found  by
researchers in the area to indicate that cultivation of export crops
(coffee and cocoa) results in lower food consumption amongst the farm
family. If anything, farmers with tree crops appear to enjoy a richer and
more varied diet.   However,  rising demand for food in urban areas is
expected in the medium-term to lead to higher relative food prices (para
5.14), probably causing some substitution of food crops production for
cocoa and coffee.
6.06      Environmental Impact.   The natural environment of the Center-
West is already undergoing rapid and irreversible change as a result of
agricultural settlement, which is facilitated by forest logging.   It is
extremely difficult to slow down the rate of agricultural deforestation by
administrative means. Such efforts need to be concentrated on protecting a
certain minimum area of state forest reserves from agricultural
encroachment. There is some evidence that deforestation in the south-east
Ivory Coast over the last half-century has led to a shortening in the rainy
period, and that tree crop yields have fallen as a result.  This is the
reason given by numerous farmers for moving to the Center West.   The
project would explore the possibilities of arresting or slowing down such a
phenomenon throughout the forest zone of Ivory Coast by means of an
intensification of land-use and a shortening of fallow periods without
loss of fertility for food crops. The Development Research Unit would be
particularly concerned with investigating solutions to this problem.
6.07      Institutional  Impact.    The  project  would  help  to  improve
institutional performance in the following areas, supporting policy and
institutional reforms at the national level by MINAGRI under the SAL
program:
(a) regional development - the project would introduce a more
responsive, flexible and cost-effective approach to agricultural
extension by SATMACI through a reorganization and re-training of
its regional personnel;
(b)  village level organization - the project would reform, train and
supervise village cooperatives in the area, increasing their
role in crop marketing and credit distribution;
(c) farm credit - BNDA would be assisted in its decentralization
program, its staffing in the region would be strengthened and
opportunities for increasing rural savings and loans would be
exploited;



- 44 -
(d) commercial development - (i) farmers would have improved access
to farm inputs and equipments, both through SATMACI's commercial
division (DC) and the private sector, with which the former
would compete; (ii) supply contracts would be arranged between
traders and growers of certain food crops, notably plantain;
(iii) existing Government arrangements for paddy marketing and
milling would be overhauled; and
(e) agricultural research - there would be a strengthening of the
liaison between pure research done by the specialized institutes
and the agriculture extension agency, the main channel for which
would be the agronomic section of DRU.
6.08      SATMACI's actions in the Center-West region would be expected to
become more  cost-effective.    By PY10  its  annual  staff  salaries  and
operating costs would be 20% lower in real terms than in 1980, while the
total value of agricultural production is expected to have increased by
about 40%.   In terms of the volume of agricultural production actually
affected by SATMACI's activities, the difference is even larger. In 1980,
SATMACI's costs were equivalent to some CFAF 55 per kg of improved coffee
and cocoa;  by 1990  (PY9)  this would  fall  to around  CFAF  15 per kg,
reflecting partly the coming into bearing of earlier SATMACI plantings but
also the gains from greater efficiency.   (Calculation and assumptions
shown in SWP 11, Table 9).
C. Economic Analysis
6.09      The  project's  economic  rate  of  return  is  estimated  at  28
percent, based on a comparison of the total costs of SATMACI operations in
the project area and the expected incremental benefits.   Details of the
cost and benefit stream are given below.
6.10      Benefits.  Project benefits are taken as the expected economic
value of production of coffee, rice and maize resulting from project
production components, including objectives for the test zones (about 10%
of the total).  This expected production is not the result of previous
years' investments and would not have resulted without the project. It is
therefore  'incremental'  and due to the project.   Calculated  benefits
exclude (i) the value of other food crops (groundnuts, yam, cassava) and
coconut which would be developed on a modest scale in the pilot test zones;
(ii) additional response by farmers to improved credit, inputs and
cooperative marketing arrangements introduced under the project for food
crops, rice and coffee; (iii) benefits from village infrastructure
improvements (access tracks and water storage) in the pilot test zones; and
(iv) the marginal value of additional cocoa (1,500 t at PY13) expected to
result from the rehabilitation and spraying trial components.   Benefits
are calculated for a 20-year period, full development being reached from
PY12 to PY20, and are appropriately lagged in respect to the timing of
costs.



- 45 -
6.11      Costs.  Economic costs consist of (a) all SATMACI's costs for
carrying out the project over PYl-5, including the cost of internationally
recruited staff and consultants, and projected salary, operating, renewal
and maintenance expenses in the post-project period; and (b) farmers'
incremental costs for farm labor and inputs.  Costs exclude identifiable
taxes but include physical contingency allowances. Project costs for the
pilot village component, for cooperative promotion, staff retraining,
monitoring and evaluation and for the development research unit are all
included. A table summarising estimated economic costs and benefits of the
project is included at Annex 3.
6.12      Other Detailed Assumptions are as follows:
(a) incremental maize and rice production are valued at their
import-parity values in the project area;
(b) family farm labor is costed at a shadow wage rate (SWR) of CFAF
500/man-day; hired farm labor (mostly used for heavier work) is
costed at an estimated SWR of CFAF 830/man-day;
(c) project costs and benefits are computed at border prices by (i)
converting foreign costs to local currency at the exchange rate
of CFAF 270 per US$; and (ii) adjusting all local costs to border
prices by an estimated standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.83
which reflects the impact of border tariff distortions.   The
same accounting ratio has been used in arriving at the SWR
estimates.
6.13      Switching Values.  A summary of results of the ERR calculation
and switching values for key variables is given in the table below:
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
Base estimate: 28%.
Switching values (%age increase/decrease in variable at which
ERR falls to 12.0%):
Costs:                             Benefits:
SATMACI costs 212                  Coffee      -   53
Farm inputs   325                  Rice        -  363
Farm labor    209                  Maize       -  898
Net Present Value:  CFAF 16.16 billion (US$59.85 million), dis-
counted at 10%.



- 46 -
D. Project Risks
6.14      The above analysis indicates that the project's ERR should be
satisfactory under various combinations of unfavorable circumstances. It
would require the long-term economic price of coffee, or expected yields,
to drop by 53% before the ERR reached the marginal level of 12%.   The
principal risks are considered to be of an institutional nature, since the
project involves the adaptation of a large organization with established
habits and its responsiveness to a complex set of agro-social problems.
The SAL would help to provide an improved financial, institutional and
policy framework for the project. The importance given under the project
itself to staff training and other institutional support for SATMACI, to
pilot activities and research, and to project monitoring and evaluation,
would serve to reduce the risks to an acceptable level.
VII.  ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) Government would conduct a promotion campaign amongst farmers
for the improvement of quality of cocoa beans, including notably
measures to encourage the utilization of plastic fermentation
boxes (paras 3.11 and 3.44);
(b) Government would, no later than June 30, 1983 agree with the Bank
on its detailed plan for implementing the conclusions of the
agricultural prices study concerning fertilizer subsidies for
irrigated rice production (para 3.14);
(c) SATMACI would make freely available its training center at
Gagnoa for the purposes of training project staff (para 3.26);
(d) Government would provide SATMACI's Commercial Division with CFAF
250 million of additional working capital by June 30, 1982 (para
3.40 and 4.09);
(e) Government would make available to BNDA adequate funds for the
farm credit component (para 3.43);
(f) Government would carry out by October 31, 1982 an action program
acceptable to the Bank for the reorganization of paddy
collection and rice milling activities in the project area (para
5.09); and
(g) Government would, by June 30, 1983, submit a proposal for
assuring future maintenance of bottomlands investments with an
adequate participation by beneficiaries (para 5.18).



- 47 -
7.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be as follows:
(a)  signature  of  a  Convention  (financing  and  implementation
agreement), satisfactory to the Bank, between Government and
SATMACI governing project staffing; the flow of funds to the
project; their banking, accounting, auditing and reporting
procedures; and including satisfactory arrangements for pre-
financing by Government of Center-West project activities and of
the operations of SATMACI's Commercial Department (paras 3.39
and 4.10);
(b) signature of satisfactory BNDA Arrangements (para 3.43);
(c) meeting of conditions precedent to effectiveness of a loan/loans
by CCCE for the purpose of financing the project (para 4.06);
(d)  recruitment, and approval by the Bank, of a suitable Project
Manager and Technical Director for the project (para 3.38) under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
(e) the establishment of a revolving fund and initial deposit by
Government of CFAF 225 million.
7.03      Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$13.0 million.



- 48 -
ANNEX I
IVORY COAST
CENTER-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
List of Staff Working Paper (SWP)
1.    The Project Area
2.    The Extension Service
3.    Farm and Crop Development Components
4.    The Pilot Village Component
5.    Cooperative Organization, Logistics and Credit
6.    Job Descriptions of Key Project Staff and Training Needs
7.    SATMACI, The Project Executing Agency
8.    Project Monitoring and Evaluation
9.    Detailed Project Cost Tables
10.    Farm Budgets
11.    Economic Analysis.



- 49 -
IVORY COAST                                           ANN   2
Table I page I
CENTER-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FIVE-YEAR PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(CFAF '000)
COMPONENT                             PYI           PY2           PY3           PY4          PY5           Total         Tax           Foreign
X    Cost       Exchange
Rate
_%_  X   Cost
Project Management Unit
Civil Works                        10000          -             -            -             -            10000     15    1500       65        6500
Vehicles & Equipment               25800          5000          4400          5700         8600         49500     32   16500       56      27225
Personnel Cost                     40980         42080         42080        48080         48080        221300     15   33195        -         -
Technical Assistance               77000         77000         77000        77000         77000        385000    22   82800        61    236000
Operating Cost                     17625         16625         16625        16625         16625         84125     12   10369       21       19081
Subtotal                    171405        140705        140105       147405        150305        749925     19  144364        39    288806
Extension Service
Civil Works                       154000           -            6600           -          13200        173800     15   26070       65     112970
Vehicles & Equipment              130100         15800         60700        38250         60900        305750     37  113045       45     138493
Personnel Cost                    444680        462680       434480        452480        427880      2222200      15  333330        -         -
Operating Cost                     72450         76450         75510        79510         79230        383150     16   60023       59    225585
Subtotal                    801230        554930        577290       570240        581210       3084900     17  532468        16    477048
Cooperative Development
Unit
Civil Works                        19800         19800           -            -             -           39600     15    5940       65      25740
Vehicles & Equipment               62300          2400         25200        36200         13800        139900     41   57390       49      68445
Personnel Cost                     70520         84920        99320        118820        126020        499600     15   14940        -         -
Technical Assistance               31000         31000         31000        31000           -          124000    21   26040        62      76880
Consultant Services                 6000          6000          6000         6000          6000         30000      -      -       100      30000
Operating Cost                     28520         31320         38820        46170         48570        193400     15   28439       60     115377
Subtotal                    218140        175440        200340       238190        194390       1026500     19  192749        31    316442
Pilot Zones Extension Unit
Civil Works                         6000           -             -            -             -            6000     15      900      65       3900
Vehicles & Equipment                9700           800         16000           800         5200         32500    39   12600        39      12600
Personnel Cost                     48760         48760        48760         53560         53560       253400      15   38010        -        -
Technical Assistance               25000         25000         25000        25000         25000        125000     19   23750       64      80000
Operating Cost                     12240         12240         12240        12240         12240         61200     16    9655       51      31205
Subtotal                    101700         86800        102000        91600         96000        478100     18   84915       27     127705
Monitoring & Evaluation Unit
Vehicles & Equipment               28200           -           12700         3200          9500         53600    30   16020        58      30970
Personnel Cost                     71960         78220         78220        78220         78220        384840     15   57726        -        -
Consultant's Services               6000          6000          6000         6000           -           24000      -    -         100      24000
Operating Cost                     11115         11115         11115        11115         11115         55575     20   10861       32      17587
Subtotal                       117275        95335        108035         98535        98835        518015      17   84607       14      72557
Monitoring & Evaluation, Test Zones
Vehicles & Equipment                6100           -            5300          1900         2100         15400    35    5460        53       8190
Personnel Cost                     12360         12360         12360        18600         18600         72480     15   11142        -        -
Technical Assistance               25000         25000         25000        25000         25000        125000     19   23750       64      80000
Operating Cost                      6470          6470          6470         6470          6470         32350     16    5328       38      12390
Subtotal                        49930        43830         49130         51970        52170        247030      18   45680       41     100580
DRU, Agronomic Section
Civil Works                         8672           -             -            -             -            8672     14    1265       66       5684
Vehicles & Equipment               25700           -            5600           -           2400         33700    22    7430        60      20330
Consultant's Services              13500         18000         12000          7500          -           51000     25   12750       65      33150
Personnel Cost                     26600         26600         26600        26600         26600        133000     15   19950        -        -
Operating Cost                      9900          9900          9900          9900         9900         49500     15    7380       47      23130
Subtotal                     84372         54500         54100        44000         38900        275872     18   48775       30      82294
Training Unit
Cisil Works                         5000           -             -            -             -      -     5500    15       750      65       3250
Vehicles & Equipnent               14540           -            3200          3200         3200         24140     33    8063       S5      13361
Personnel Cost                     15820         14020         17320         17320        17320         81800     15   12270                 -
Technical Assistance               36000         36000         36000        36000           -          144000    23   3312'        60      86400
Operating Cost                     18220         13820         14930        12820         11360         71150      9    6500       43      30807
Subtotal                     89580         63840         71450        69340         31880        326090    19   40703        41     13'72C



- 50 -
IVORY COAST                                            ANNEX 2
CENTER-WEST AGRICULTJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                              Table 1 page 2
FIVE-YEAR PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(CFAF '000)
COMPONENT                            PYi          PY2          PY3           PY4          PY5          Total        Tax           Foreign
%    Coat       Exchange
Rate
-____  _____  _____                             P      Cost
Expansion of BNDA Offices
Vehicles & Equipment                -           4900          1900          -           1900         8700    33    2865        55      4815
Personnel Cost                      -          15200        33600         33600        33600       116000    15   17400         -       -
Operating Cost                      -           3160         5660          5660         5660        20140    22    4421       43       8716
Subtotal                      -          23260        41160         39260        41160       144840    17   24686         9      13531
Workshops
Civil Works                        2625         5250          -            -             -           7875    15    1180       65       5120
Equipment                          2500         5000          -            -             -           7500    10       750     75       5625
Personnel Cost                     1800         5400         5400          5400         5400        23400    15    3510        -        -
Operating Cost                      200          600          600           600          600         2600    15      390      46       1200
Subtotal                     7125        16250          6000         6000        41375        14         5830            29     11945
Studies
Consultants' Services             15000          -           15000        15000        15000        60000      -      -       100     60000
Agriculcural Infrastructure
Outside Test Zones               130650       198450        85970        34040         33810       482920    14   68137       66    318199
Test Zones                       110453       152743       161810         4140          5750       434896    13   58500       56    281822
Subtotal                   241103       351193       247780         38180        39560       917816    14  126637        65    600021
Agricultural Inputs
Outside Test Zones               200119       280962       419517       571445       704390       2176A33    16  348525       55   1139";
Test Zones                        27194        4965s        77698       108551        127763       390860    16   63020       52    202695
Subtotal                   227313       330616       497215        679996       832153      2567293          411545      55   1402569
Base Costs                         2124173      1936699      2109605       2089716      2177563    10437756    17 1762959         35   3687218
Physical Contingencies              112350        93299        88772         63116        73655       431192    17   71208       57    245027
Price Contingencies                 252910       459470       777195       1068600      1449724      4007899    12  497434       27   1097296
Subtotal.                  365260       552769       865967       1131716      1523379      4439091    13  568642        30   1342323
Total Project Costs                2489433      2489468      2975572      3221432       3700942    14876847    16 2331601         34   5029541



- 51-                           ANNEX 2
Table 2
IVORY COAST
CENTER WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(US$ '000)
IBRD Fiscal Yr                      Cumulative    Undisbursed         Project Year
and Quarter 1/  Disbursements    Disbursements Amount                 and Quarter
FY 83      1           _                               13,000         PY1  (82)   3
2            -                -             13,000                      4
3        1,700             1,700           11,300                (83)   1
4        1,000             2,700            10,300                      2
FY 84     1           600             3,300             9,700         PY2          3
2           500            3,800             9,200                      4
3          500             4,300             8,700               (84)   1
4           500            4,800             8,200                      2
FY 85      1           500            5,300             7,700         PY3          3
2           500            5,800             7,200                      4
3          800             6,600            6,400                (85)   1
4           800            7,400             5,600                      2
FY 86.    1           650             8,050            4,950          PY4          3
2           650            8,700             4,300                      4
3          550             9,250             3,750               (86)   1
4           550            9,800             3,200                      2
FY 87     1           550            10,350            2,650          PY5          3
2           550           10,900             2,100                      4
3          550            11,450            1,550               (87)   1
4           550           12,000             1,000                      2
FY 88      1          400            12,400               600         PY6          3
2           200           12,600               400                      4
3          200            12,800               200               (88)   1
4           200           13,000                -                       2
1/ Fiscal Year: July 1 - June 30.
Closing Date: Jtune 30, 1988.
Project Completion: December 31, 1987.



ICIC                  C                                   c                                                                    -          
oC X                 H r' >                nC o a                                                                                        C           CC r            '    C^co   
CC                t'  HtaaO                                                      C                                                              CC                 IC / :  
X H ! M s: > ) CCCCCsr                                                                                             C       CCC 
CC                C              C         C                                      C        CCs'Cg  g  ..'                                           n 
C               C              C                               ]                            C                                                     2 CC C fC
C                       C                                                Cs         CCn       CCCD  *                                         C  C
CC                'C            C       a                                                 -      o,C           n 
CC a               '             C      ,                                                     CCCC                                                CCC    H e X*W    -.        
^  0          _          O       O  OC~ C ' O                                                             COCC_    
Or~~ C                                                                           .   W         U__O CC  WC                              -_WCCC_S   
o~ ~~~                          CC _C                                             CC rC                                                  CC_e? w    C. >  o_w        n
t~~ ~  ~                                                                          CC C_  _C                    
n    _l                                                                                                                                              C
> ~     ~       ~       '        CC                                         C I           CC       C'                                                                C
C' C\0              _             C__              3'C                                                                              C                           CJh    w 
D n                          'CC                       o                       C' C         CC C                              C       C                           C            
3 ~    ~        ~       ~        C CWC'C Vl                                                                                                  C     .         >_W        
n'                     C      C        C              C         C                         C     C C* 
oC                    C       CC oC                                                      C    '' C                             C     'C o'                        '  Cw         o 
_'        _         _C                                                CC n 'CC                                       'C     C      n                     Co|r>o9     
Z~~~~C                                                                          CCC           CC                               C      C0     0 C                                               0  wt  
Cn                                        C           C          CCC                                                            '     C      C'
C                  w          COCC                    '                          '     C    ' CC                                      C      C 
C,                    C       C'CC                    C>        'C      I       CI    CC       '     I                         C.     _      C                    C o'
g C                          'CCC                     Cs         C             'C     'C      C                               C       C0     C                    'C     >_v
C                      C. O'C                          C          C OCC O                                                              C D' W  _iC                                              C WC n>D     -
3' ~    ~       ~       C                                           C5                                                                                                                   I           
.-D                    C'       CC                    C' -'                           'C          CC                           C -C _C
C' C=                         'C    C                 C          C   0   I     I  ICC           C                              C O           'C 0 _   f=
_~~~C 00C _                                                                                              C 00  C0  <  O             O
'C                    C    w' C                       C         C'            .           C      Cn                            C             C
C                 oC  Cs                  CC                     C          C 'C                            C                             C      C      C' ''C     g  I  
C.                _ C              C n  D                                   C' O  In              CCCO  O    ' 'C31                                  5
O                  C  C                                                                                                                   C             C 
I                                                     
_C                      C       wC        I             _          _                    '     I   CC                             I      C      C'                   C
C        'C'           sC       CC WC                              C                     CC         CC                          C'      C wC                        C  
CC                    C         cC                          g S' C'  C                  'C        CC                           C      C      'C                   'C
C                 'C            'C C 1                         C         C' I     o     I    ICC           C C                                 C    CIC
C                               D    1                                                 -        .              w                    I .                -                    'C
C         CC             C C                            C          C                                                                  ICI C   C C
Co  w       C       I C         C      I                C          C            _                             I                         C      C o  
C-C                                                                                                 CC                          1   -         I - oo   I
C          o CC         C     w CC                           I    Cn    I                                                               C~     C ' 1 D1
-         a CC          C'   Cg                                    C                        C   ,    o8          xC                            C_                    C 
nC                     'Co CC                           C             l Co   OD C                                               C   C   C                        I'
I  CC  CCC'                          C          C                     CC         CC                           C      C      C- '_CaG 



ANNEX 2
Table 4
IVORY COAST
Center-Neat Agricultural Development Project
SATMACI: Balance Sheet
(CFAF Million)
As of September 30  l/                       1974/75                     1975/76                    1976/77                    1977/78                     1978/79                     1979/80
Cash and Bank                                    168                        346                        342                         446                      1,667                       1,448
Receivables - Government                      1,828                       3,955                      6,721                      8,692                       9,338                       6,890
- Others                           113                         84                          38                        659                         956                         916
Prepaid expenses                                 113                        382                        341                         404                         531                        895
Advances                                          -                                                     22                         ?23                         1 "                        423
Current Assets                     2,222                      4,767                       7,464                     10,424                      12,778                     10,572
Net fixed assets - State                      1,573                       3,122                      4,443                      6,338                       6,211                       6,324
- 0-                         559                         683                        933                         922                      1,712                       1,048
Long term loans                               1,049                       1,276                      1,427                      1,630                       1,670                       1,903
Other assets                                     267                        264                        284                         282                         248                        236
Fixed Assets                       3,448                      5,345                       7,087                      9,172                       9,841                       9,511
Inventory (Input Supplies)                      706                         647                        754                         849                      1,353                       1,819
Total Assets                       6,376                     10,759                      15,305                     20,445                      23,972                      21,902
Short term debts                              1,248                       2,321                      3,540                      6,790                       2,733                       6,566
Accounts payable - Suppliers                     747                      1,229                      1,539                       2,536                      2,293                       1,648
- Others                     301                         416                        436                         887                        907                       1,787
Accruals                                         -                          217                      1,580                          39                      6,740                          972
Current Liabilities                2,296                      4,183                       7,104                     10,252                      12,673                      10,973
Long term loans                               1,166                       1,612                      1,681                       1,778                      2,202                       2,566
Equipment subsidies                             237                         377                        531                         501                      1,153                         465
Government funds                              1,370                       3,179                      4,489                       6,338                      6,211                       6,324
Deferred reserves                                                            9 90                      170                          70                         200                          -
Long term Liabilities              2,773                      5,258                       8,871                      8,687                       9,766                       9,355
Capital and Reserves                          1,297                       1,309                      1,320                       1,489                       1,483                       1,522
Retained earnings                                 10                          9                         10                          17                          50                          51
Net Worth                          1,307                      1,318                       1,330                      1,506                       1,533                       1,573
Total Liabilities & Net Worth              6,376                     10,759                     15,305                      20,445                      23,972                      21,902
1/ Under the new statutes SATMACI's fiscal year is to be January I - December 31
(With effect from January 1, 1982).



IVORY COAST
CENI'ER-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVEL.OPMENTr PROJECT
Farm Budget (North)
Price/kg                     PYO                                            PY10
Area   Yield  Production  Gross Tncome    Area   Yield   Production  Cross Income
CFAF    (ha)  (kg/hia)    (!g)          (crFAF)       (ha)  (kg/ha)       (Ig)          (CFAF)
Old coffee                       300    1.00    100        100           30,000        -        -
flew coffee planting              "         -      -         -                 -      1.00    725         725          217,500
Coffee in bearing                 "      2.40    275       660          198,000        2.40    495      1,188          356,400
Cocoa In bearing                  "      2.30    400       920          276,000       2.30    600       1,380          414,000
Paddy                             50    1.01    950        960           48,000        1.00  1,710      1,710           85,500
Yamns                             30    0.28  6,800    1,904             57,120       0,28  6,800       1,904           57,120
Cassava                           13    0.12  5,883        706            9,178       0.12  5,883          706           9,178
Plantain                          13    0.20  6,400    1,280             16,640       0.20  6,400       1,28()          16,640
Nlscellaneous                    55    0.10    320         32             1,760       0.10    320          32           1,760
Total              7.51                            640,298       7.64                          1,170,178
Pioduction Costs (CFAF)                                                  62,458                                        173,134
(includlng hlired labor)
Total net farm benefit
CFAF                                                            577,840                                       997,044
US$                                                               2,140                                         3,692
Nlet benefit per manday
CFAF                                                              1,066                                         1,286
1)S$                                                                  3.95                                           4.76
Total faniily labor (HD)                                                     542                                           776
'F ,i
0



IVORY COAST
CEN'rl'R-uItST ACRICULTURAL DEVEIl.OPMENT '1ROJECT
Farm Budget (Soutil)
Price/lg                     HYO                                           PYlO
Area   Yield  Production  Gross Income    Area   Yield   Pro(uction  Cross Income
CrAF    (ha)  (kg/ha)    (Icg)          (CFAF)        (ha)  (kg/lha)     (kg)          (CFAI )
Coffee in bearlng                 300    1.75      300      525        157,500         1.75      540         945      283,500
New coffee planting                        -         -        -                        0.50      825         412.5   123,750
Old cocoa                                0.50      100       50        15,000           _
Cocoa in bearing                   "     2.00      450      900       270,000          2.00      650      1,300      390,000
Paddy                              50    1.01      950      960        48,000          1.00   1,575        1,610       80,520
Maize                              40    0.07      900       63          2,520         0.42   1,474          619       24,760
Yams                               30    0.08   6,800       544         16,320         0.08   6,800          544       16,320
Cassava                            13    0.16   5,883       941         12,233         0.16   5,883          941       12,233
Plantain                           13    0.09   7,200       648         8,424          0.09   7,200          648        8,424
Mlscellaneous                      55    0.11      320       35          1,925         0,11      320          35        1,925
Total              5.77                         531,922         6.11                           941,432
Production costs                                                       69,580                                         119,424
(Including lhired labor)
Total net farm Lenefit
CFAF                                                         462,342                                        822,008
IJS$                                                           1,712                                          3,044
Net benefit per manday
CFAF                                                           1,014                                          1,263
US$                                                                3.76                                           4.68
Total family labor (M)                                                     456                                            651
o,t1 1



IVORY COAST                                                   Aumex 3
T
CENTUR-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVCLOPSNT PRIJ_CT
Sumry of Economic Costs and Benefits (CFAF million. 1981 pric e)
-----------------------------  SATHACI Co ots --------------------------------           ------- Farmers Cost  --       )   (------ Production  neAfite ------)
Civil    Vehicles &   Technical    Consultant   Staff         Operating      Sub-        tsin        Farm        Sub-       Coffee      Rice      maize       Total         Fet
PY     Works      Equipment   Assistance   Services       Salaries   Costs          total       Inputs       Labor       total        __                                         lefits
1      356          224         170           41           616         163         1570         232          262        494          -          -          -          -         (- 2064)
2      247           21         171           30           651         165         1285         372          521         893      (- 53)       10         12        (- 31)      (-2209)
3      115           98         171           39           642         172         1237         613          831       1444       (- Ill      203         29          214       (- 1964)
4       -            66         171           34           688         181          1140        919         1179        2098         312      502         9           912       (- 2326)
5       -            78         112           21           673         181         1065        1225         1319       2544         1212      733        214         2159       (- 1450)
6       18           60           -           -            550         150           778        713         1056        1769       2753       912        405         4070          1523
7                                                                       I                                   1172        18J5       5226       924        411         6561          3896
8                                                                                                           1124        1837        7470                              Ms05         61-90
9                                                                                                           1330       2043        8S645                             990           7159
10                                                                                                           1410        2123       9006                             10343          7442
11                                                                                                           1267        1980       9142                             10477          7719
12                                                                                                           1410        2123        9067                            10422          7521
13                                                                                                           1410        2123       9150                             1085           7504
14                                                                                                           14  0      2133                                                       7 ?a
15I
16 
17
18
19
20



- 57 -
Annex 4
IVORY COAST
CENTER-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF KEY PROJECT STAFF
Key Project Staff                       PYl          PY2          PY3          PY4           PY5
1) International Recruitment Posts:
Technical Director
Financial Controller                                  ___
Training Specialist  (Agriculture)                             __.
Agriculturalist (Extension Test Zone)                                       _
Agro-Economist (Development
Research Unit)
Training Specialist  (Cooperative)               ._.                     _
2) Senior Local Staff:
1 Project Manager
1 Deputy Technical Manager
1 Head of Service, Extension
4 Heads of Zones, Extension (Eng./ITA)                      ___                                                     .
1 Deputy Training Officer (Coop.)                                                       __.
1 Marketing Officer (Coop.)                                                                                         .
1 Head of Service, Extension (Test Zones)                                                _
3 Chiefs of UAP l
1 Head of Unit, M & E
1 Deputy Head of Unit, M & E                                        _
1 Head of Section, M & E, Test Zones
1 Head of Section, Dev. Research
2 Deputy Training Officers                                                 _   ____I
1 Branch Manager BNDA
3) Consultants Services (Man/Months)
Cooperative Promotion and Logistical
Support Services                                     2            2            2             2            2
Monitoring & Evaluation
- Outside Test Zoneo                                 2            2            2             2            _
- Test Zones                                         2            2            2             2
Development Research Unit                              4-1/2        6            4             2-1/2
Short-term Studies                                     5            -            5             5            5
Total                                              15-1/2       12           15            13-1/2|    7



I



Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~' U                                        -~    -  C                                                   (
tf~~~~~~ ~ '"K  > - _ . 5                                                                                                      f   " 5;      
C S ; { ~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                               (   
O ~~~~, r h ~~~~.                                               -  t.>  _ 
; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                 -              ;-<        s . -  r4
D0;                                 ';  .    ---                  -                                       -                '21 -   . -            0.
-'           <2                                                        - '.  -' 'X   -t     
b   Z     a       - 0        ,-~~~~~~~  >                                X               f                        5 . 
m &>   i        N          V             H                               5)'-     -  ~       '0a
_l G, U?S2:Z.tN  fl '  2                   ;            n        2@     < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/'2



I



2
5 FITEY,,'Fk 181
IVORY COAST
CENTER WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
P,oiect boundary                                     Mam  roads
Prolec keadquo,te,s                                 Dthe, roads
Test 7o,es
a                                IDESSA  esea,ch -lostatio,                            DcIport,n-ts
Project experi.ental sites                           Sobp,efectu,es
:5                                                                                                                         Training center                                      Department boundaries
Rice m,11                                            Subp,efectures boQndanes
Coffee hulling factory
66d.l.
KILOMETERS 0         10     20      30      40      30     60       70      80     90      700
T-
MILES  0                         C."         30           40           50           60
00 DA LOA
b
Z.
'M A
I S S I A
D,d                     D-k-,
'Y                     8-.                tZTt
C-61-                                      )OUM
ZI.
1e1.'..t_       (0)
C.ara
'o                                                                                                      gahio\
                                       T,4.1.
-1 M. W-ld
GAPNOA                                                -d                         ......
IK.b.q                                      I.,      MALI
UPPEP VOLTA
r
C;UINEA
L
SIERRA
0                                                        -ri            t- -3  IVORY    COAST                                TO GO
LEONE
GHANA
LIBERIA
G-Y.                                                                   k,



