Document of                   FL                 Py
The World Bank                        ILE
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3309-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR THE
CENTER-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 5, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =        CFA Franc (CFAF) 1/
US$1.00              =        CFAF 270
CFAF 1 million       =        US$3,700
FF 1.00              =        CFAF 50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)             -    0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   =    0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 metric ton (m ton)              2,205 pounds (lbs)
1 hectare (ha)              =    2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)              -    2.2 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
Government:    January 1 - December 31
SATMACI:        January 1 - December 31
BNDA:           October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BETPA    -  Bureau d'Etudes Techniques de Projects Agricoles
BNDA     -  Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole
CAA      -  Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE     -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
DC       -  Direction Commerciale (SATMACI)
IDESSA   -  Institut pour le Developpement des Savanes
IFCC     -  Institut Francais du Cafe et du Cacao
MINAGRI  -  Ministere de l'Agriculture
MINFIN   -  Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
SATMACI  -  Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la Modernisation
de l'Agriculture en Cote d'Ivoire
1/   The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc at 1 FF to to CFAF 50.  The
French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
CENTER-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of the Ivory Coast
Amount:              US$13.0 million equivalent
Terms:               17 years including 4 years grace, at an interest rate
of 11.6% per annum.
Project              The Project is designed to introduce innovative changes
Description:       in the system of agriculture in the Center-West region
and to support newly-defined programs to increase the
production and incomes of some 28,000 beneficiary farm
families in the project area. It also aims to introduce
at the regional level important policy and institutional
reforms of SATMACI, the public agency responsible for
smallholder development in the forest zone, and to streng-
then BNDA's local agricultural credit services. Key
elements of the project are: (a) crop development
programs administered by SATMACI involving a set of
technical packages for coffee regeneration, cocoa rehabi-
litation, and increased production of rice, maize, yams,
groundnuts and coconuts; and (b) agricultural service and
institutional support consisting of an improved system of
extension services including a pilot program with a new
approach to extension and a training program for 280
extension workers, the development of village cooperatives,
applied research, and monitoring and evaluation programs,
and providing increased autonomy, with improved management,
to SATMACI's Center-West regional office.
The main risk that this project faces is that its
innovative character may prove to be beyond SATMACI's
regional management and extension service capabilities.
The Project itself seeks to develop these capabilities
through substantial technical assistance, supported by
applied research and training programs. Moreover, the
monitoring and evaluation program, supported by project
financed consultant services, should further reduce this
risk to an acceptable level.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
Local         Foreign         Total
--------- US$ Million -----------
Institutional and Agricultural
Service Support                          12.4            2.0             14.4
Farm Inputs and Equipment                   2.0             4.6             6.6
Agricultural Infrastructure                 1.0             2.0             3.0
BASE COSTS                            15.4            8.6            24.0
Physical Contigencies                  0.5            0.5             1.0
Price Contingencies                    6.7            2.5             9.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST 1/ 2/                   22.6           11.6             34.2
SATMACI Present Level Expenditures         13.9             7.0            20.9
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED 2/                36.5           18.6             55.1
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan                              8.2            4.8            13.0
CCCE Loan                              2.5            1.5             4.0
BNDA/Farmers                           3.0            5.3              8.3
Government                             8.9             -              8.9
Total Project Cost                    22.6           11.6            34.2
CCCE Loan                              7.7            3.3            11.0
BNDA/Farmers                           2.1            3.7             5.8
Government                             4.1             -              4.1
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                   36.5           18.6             55.1
Estimated Disbursements:
----------------US $ Million----------------
FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
Annual                     2.1      2.1     2.6      2.6      2.6      1.0
Cumulative                  -       4.2     6.8      9.4    12.0    13.0
Economic Rate of Return: 28%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3613-IVC, Dated May 5, 1982.
Maps: IBRD 16021 and 16022
1/   Excluding present level expenditures.
2/   Includes taxes of US$5.6 million and US$8.6 million, respectively, on
Total Project Costs and Total Financing Required.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR THE CENTER-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Ivory Coast for the equivalent of US$13.0 million to
help finance the Center-West Agricultural Development Project. The loan
would have a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, with interest
at 11.6 percent per annum. The project would be co-financed by the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique of France (CCCE) which would provide US$4.0
million on a joint basis and US$11.0 million on a parallel basis. The CCCE
financing would have a term of 17 years, including a five year grace period
with interest at 5.5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        "Ivory Coast:  A Basic Economic Report" (1147b-IVC) was circulated
to the Executive Directors in May 1977. It was published in 1978 by the Johns
Hopkins University Press under the title "The Challenge of Success". Its
assessment of the country's economic prospects, updated by Bank missions in
each subsequent year, is reflected in the following paragraphs.
Introduction
3.        Since 1960, when GDP per capita was US$145, the country has experi-
enced a 7 percent per annum GDP growth rate, a pace of development that has
surpassed that of most non-oil exporting countries and which resulted in a
1980 GDP per capita of US$1,200, the second highest in sub-saharan Africa.
From the outset, the Government has pursued economic growth as its primary
objective. A political framework was established that promoted an open and
stable economy. Political ideology played a secondary role to practical
considerations in promoting growth and development. The open economy proved
to be a strong attraction to foreign factors of production. As a result,
there has been a massive immigration of both unskilled labor from poor
neighboring countries and skilled technicians and managers from Europe.
Today, immigrants (mainly non-Ivorian Africans) constitute about 30 percent
of the country's population. Neighboring countries enjoyed substantial
benefits from the outflow of workers' remittances from the employment that
their surplus labor force was able to find in the Ivory Coast. Close rela-
tions with France through, inter alia, the West African Monetary Union,
ensured currency convertibility and a relatively stable balance of payments
framework.
1/   This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's
Report on the Structural Adjustment Loan, dated November 4, 1981.
Some parts of the presentation have been updated.



4.        From Independence, agriculture was identified as the key to the
country's growth potential. Tropical rainforests covered large areas in the
South, and their successful (if excessive) exploitation gave the country
foreign exchange resources for investment. These areas were suitable for
growing coffee, cocoa, and other crops. The agricultural potential of the
North was more limited, and it therefore was developed more slowly and to a
lesser extent. But food crops, cotton, and livestock were successfully
promoted. Value added in the agricultural sector grew by an average of over
5 percent per year.
5.        In support of this agricultural development, Government developed
physical infrastructure. For example, access to transportation was assured
through a good network of feeder roads linked to a well-developed and main-
tained secondary and trunk road network. An excellent and well-managed
deepwater port was developed at Abidjan, the capital, and a second port more
recently at San Pedro in the West.
6.        Other sectors of the economy also grew rapidly.  Industry, parti-
cularly agro-industry, grew at 12 percent per year. Most investment exploited
import substitution potential such as in cotton textiles. The tertiary sector
grew rapidly based partly on demand generated by agriculture and industry, and
partly on demand resulting from government policies to provide infrastructure
to support development.
7.        The combination of decisions to promote government investment in
both infrastructure and the parapublic sector led to a growing public invest-
ment program. Although investment rates increased from 14 percent of GDP in
the early 1960s to well over 20 percent by the mid-1970s, large public sector
savings and increasing external borrowing were available to finance the
expanded program. Moreover, through the mid-1970s, the balance of payments
position remained strong, as coffee and cocoa prices continued to increase.
Under the impetus of the boom in coffee and cocoa prices in late 1976 and
1977, Government expanded the public investment program in 1978 to more than
$2 billion., almost one-fourth of the GDP, under the erroneous assumption that
prices of these commodities would remain high. With the increase in public
investment, its quality declined. Thus, the 1976-80 Plan experienced a
40 percent overrun in real terms, in contrast to the 8 percent overrun of the
previous Plan. High unit costs as well as excessive scale especially of
sugar, transport and education programs accounted for the overrun.
8.        External debt provided 40 percent of the financing.  Debt service,
therefore, rose rapidly and reached $700 million in the late 1970s. But
because of both lower-priority projects, particularly in the public enter-
prise sector, and projects with very long pay-off periods (in education, for
example), export earnings did not increase commensurately, so that debt
service ratios rose to over 25 percent by the end of the decade. In addition,
current expenditure also increased and public expenditure (current plus
capital) reached 41 percent of GDP. This reduced Government's ability to
react to changing economic circumstances.



- 3 -
9.        Coffee and cocoa export earnings declined precipitously after 1979,
and, by 1981, had lost over 50 percent of their peak (1977 and 1978) prices.
Furthermore, import prices continued to increase with inflation. Thus terms
of trade declined by about 35 percent from 1978 to 1981, and the balance of
payments entered a period of stringency.
10.       Public finance problems also emerged.  Savings fell sharply as
government marketing surpluses from coffee and cocoa were reduced by about
$600 million from 1977 and 1978 to the present. The claims of debt service,
of recurrent costs from completed projects, and of a few large cost overruns
generated strong fiscal pressures. The public enterprise sector began to
incur large deficits because of higher current costs which were not matched by
returns on investment. The recurrent costs of the education sector, which
account for 46 percent of the current budget, have become particularly burden-
some.
11.       Finally, although agriculture had been the key sector in the Ivory
Coast's rapid development, over the last four or five years the sector has,
with few exceptions, lost much of its dynamism. This has been a contributing
cause to the above problems, although changing world market conditions have
also contributed substantially. For example, foodcrop production is apparently
stagnant, requiring increasing imports to meet needs. This can be traced to
growing financial problems, a decline in institutional effectiveness, and
inadequate price and other policies.
Prospects
12.       Three important elements stand out in a discussion of the country's
economic prospects. First, the country still has a strong agricultural growth
potential. Although diminishing returns and changes in world market conditions
make the choice of future investment more difficult, the country's underlying
productivity remains. The period of bold large investment projects in agricul-
ture may be over. What is needed is judicious planning, careful investment
preparation, and better management of the state enterprises, particularly
those in the agricultural sector.
13.       The second factor is oil.  Recent developments in the off-shore
exploration program which started in the mid-1970's are encouraging. Produc-
tion in the Belier field began in 1980 at a rate of 9,000-10,000 barrels per
day through 1981, declining to 8,000 barrels per day in 1982. Production in
the Espoir field will start in 1982, and data so far gathered indicate good
prospects for further findings. There are, however, two problems associated
with petroleum development. The first is the very costly type of drilling and
development required in the Espoir field. Secondly, development to date has
required a long period of time for technical reasons, and future development
is therefore difficult to predict.
14.       The uncertainty associated with petroleum development requires that
immediate action be taken to reduce the balance of payments and fiscal defi-
cits to keep the short-term situation manageable. In the medium term,
improved government planning will be essential to restore growth in agricul-
ture and other sectors. These improvements will ensure that, when large



- 4 -
petroleum revenues become available, they are put to productive use. More
efficient use of resources to meet government objectives is all the more
important since there is a possibility that oil revenues will be available for
a fixed and relatively short period. Income creation based on petroleum will
need to generate self-sustaining growth, including diversification from the
current high dependence on a few primary products.
15.       Thirdly, the country has embarked on a program of financial rehabi-
litation designed to ensure adequate allocations for essential programs sum-
marized in the Extended Fund Facility Agreement with the IMF, and a program
of structural adjustment to overcome the weaknesses described above. The
program calls for strengthening of mechanisms for macro-economic planning and
programming of resources, improvements in agricultural sector planning and
program execution, and identifies programs to be implemented in the public
enterprises and the industrial sector. A key financial objective of the
program is to keep debt service manageable and to maintain creditworthiness
for borrowing on IBRD terms. Very recent indications suggest that as a result
of external factors, principally the strengthening of the dollar vis-a-vis the
CFA Franc, the rise in international interest rates and deteriorating terms of
trade, the pace of the financial recovery program may be slower than envisaged
when the structural adjustment program was defined. These developments will
be carefully monitored over the next few months. Until the full impact of the
financial rehabilitation and structural adjustment program is felt, the Ivory
Coast public finance and balance of payment position will remain weak and
vulnerable, and the country will have to rely on increased amounts of private
capital and external aid inflows to provide balance of payments support and
finance a high proportion of carefully selected public investment projects,
including local costs in appropriate cases.
16.       Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of 1980,
14.5 percent was provided bilaterally by governments, 17.1 percent by inter-
national aid agencies (of which 57.5 percent by the Bank Group), and 57.8
percent by private banks and bond issues, while 15 percent came in the form of
suppliers' credit. About half of the total capital not supplied by interna-
tional aid agencies came from three countries: France (34.5 percent), USA
(12.6 percent), Lebanon (5.6 percent). France and the European Communities
remain the principal source of development assistance in grant form, account-
ing for about 1 percent of the flow of foreign assistance to the public
sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
17.       Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in the Ivory Coast started,
lending has expanded rapidly and now includes forty-three loans totalling
US$875.3 million (including US$14 million from the Third Window), and an IDA
credit of US$7.5 million. Of these loans, fifteen have been for agricul-
ture, supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm and coconut development,
and rural development in the North-East Savannah region. There were six road
projects and a highway sector project. The remaining twenty-one loans were



- 5 -
for education, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system,
water supply, urban development, power distribution, tourism development,
small- and medium-scale enterprises, a regional cement project, a regional
railway project and most recently for structural adjustment and related tech-
nical assistance. IFC's involvement includes participation in the Banque
Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel amounting to US$423,500; a 10 percent
equity investment, equivalent to about US$880,000, in Etablissement R.
Gonfreville (ERG), the largest textile plant in the country; and a US$6.4
million investment in Societe Ivoirienne d'Engrais S.A. (Siveng) to double the
company's fertilizer plant capacity to 120,000 tons per year; on March 1980,
IFC Board of Directors approved an equity investment of US$446,600 and a
US$2.9 million loan for MSO, a flour milling company. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Group operations and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Generally satisfactory implementation of projects in the
Ivory Coast is reflected in better than average disbursement profiles; how-
ever, speedier submission of withdrawal applications to the Bank is possible,
and means to streamline the procedures are being considered by Government.
18.       Bank operations in agriculture have been in support of the Govern-
ment's policy of crop diversification and promotion of exports and giving
more emphasis to developing smallholder production. A smallholder rubber
project was approved by the Board in October 1978, and a rural development
project for the North-East in March 1980. In June 1979, the Executive
Directors approved the first Bank forestry project in the Ivory Coast which
consists of a 20,000 ha plantation program of short- and medium-rotation
hardwood species. The structural adjustment loan, approved by the Board
in November 1981, supports a program of macro-economic reform and of adjust-
ment focussed on agriculture including far-reaching interim and long-term
reforms of agricultural public enterprises. The technical assistance project,
approved together with SAL, provides much of the technical manpower needed
for policy reorientation and implementation of new programs. In the future,
the Bank is considering assisting integrated rural development projects in
the North and North-West regions which will be primarily designed to execute
the integrated crop strategy to be developed under the structural adjustment
program. The Bank is also associated with the preparation of a mechanization
study and pilot scheme, carried out by the French CCCE, to determine the
feasibility of introducing light mechanized farming.
19.       Bank involvement in the transport sector started in 1969 by carrying
out, as executing agency, the UNDP Transport Survey of the Ivory Coast, which
has served as a basis for determining future priorities among transport
investments. Thus far the Bank has granted loans for six road projects
totalling $123.3 million, and for a highway sector project in the amount of
$100 million, which was approved in November 1980. The first project was
completed in December 1974 with final costs falling within appraisal estimates.
The OED report on this project dated June 28, 1977, recommended inter alia,
that more emphasis should be given to road maintenance. This was addressed
in the Third Highway Project. The Second Road Project was satisfactorily
completed in September 1975, after an initial delay caused by project modifi-
cation and subsequent poor work organization for the construction component.



- 6 -
The Third and Fourth Highway Projects, which are completed, incurred substan-
tial cost overruns which the Government has covered; otherwise, execution
proceeded satisfactorily. The Fifth Highway Project, which is near completion,
will contribute to a further improvement of the primary road network of the
country. A feeder roads and highway maintenance project was approved in
December 1977. The highway sector loan to finance a portion of the country's
highway investment program for 1981-83 is now operative. A railway project,
focusing on the improvement of the Bouake-Petionara section of the Abidjan-
Ouagadougou rail line, renewal of rolling stock, technical assistance and
training, was approved in FY78.
20.       The Bank has been closely associated with the Government's efforts
to modernize the education system, in particular, at the primary, secondary
and vocational levels, through two education projects. A Third Education
Project covering primary teacher training, vocational training and informal
education in rural areas was approved by the Executive Directors in December
1979.
21.       The Abidjan sewerage and drainage project, approved in FY75, covers
the first phase of a ten-year government program to improve sanitation in
Abidjan.  The Board approved, in FY78, a second project which includes the
second phase of the program and studies for the third. An urban development
project, whose primary aim is to help meet some of Abidjan's low-income hous-
ing and transport needs, was signed in December 1976. A second urban develop-
ment project, approved in August 1981, aims at improving the living conditions
of populations in low-income urban areas and by assisting Government in
carrying out its regional development policy of shifting rapid urban growth
from the capital cities to regional centers. With respect to the smaller
towns, the Board approved in FY78 a secondary centers water supply project. A
further project for water supply in Abidjan, secondary centers and villages
was approved in April, 1982.
22.       In the energy sector, a First Power Project was approved in July
1980 to finance power distribution facilities in rural areas, technical
assistance and the preparation of a hydropower project which the Bank is
considering financing. Recently, the Government has requested Bank finan-
cial assistance for further exploration and production of the new off-shore
petroleum field, l'Espoir, and the project is currently being appraised.
23.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management
in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing
high priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this
policy, the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises
in FY76, which has been followed up by an artisans, small- and medium-scale
project approved in March 1979. The Bank Group also provided support for
medium-scale enterprises through another local development finance company
and two lines of credit for hotel financing and technical assistance in the
tourism sector. In June 1976, the Bank extended a loan to the Ivory Coast



- 7 -
in support of the CIMAO project which is sponsored jointly by the Govern-
ments of Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Togo. CIMAO utilizes limestone deposits
in Togo for the production of clinker for the cement market of the three
countries.
24.       The Bank Group's lending in the Ivory Coast has increased steadily
from a yearly average of below US$20 million during the early years to an
average of US$84.7 million annually in the 1977-81 period. The average annual
lending rate is expected to continue to grow substantially over the next few
years. The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external debt at the end
of 1980, stood at approximately 9.7 percent (including undisbursed). Its
portion of external debt disbursed is expected to rise from the present 7.2
percent to about 10 percent in the next ten years; its share of total debt
service, 3.5 percent in 1980, is expected to go up to about 6.0 percent in
the mid 1980's.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Production
25.       Ivorian agriculture is highly productive and has been the main
source of the country's outstanding economic growth. Ivory Coast, the
world's biggest producer and exporter of cocoa, is also Africa's largest
exporter of coffee, palm oil, bananas, pineapples and timber. It is also
one of West Africa's main producers of cotton and sugar. The farmgate value
of agricultural output in 1979 was US$9.1 billion or 26% of GDP. Agriculture
and forestry, together with their generated effects on the industrial and
service sectors, account for some 40% of GDP and 70% of total employment.
Growth in the volume of agricultural output averaged 4.2% p.a. in the 1960s
and 3.4% p.a. in the 1970s. Favorable movements in the country's terms of
trade, which improved at an average of 8.5% p.a. in the period 1960-79,
further enhanced agriculture's contribution to economic growth. The reversal
of this trend over the last few years is one of the key reasons for the
present slowdown in agricultural production (See para. 32 below).
26.      The past success of Ivorian agriculture has been based on the
effective exploitation of the country's abundant natural resources by sound
pragmatic Government policies attracting foreign factors of production
supported by the development of a sound infrastructure system, inventive
agricultural research programs, the establishment of a number of crop develop-
ment agencies, a remunerative farmgate price-incentive policy and ambitious
investment programs to expand traditional export crops and later to diversify
into new ones such as oil palm, rubber and cotton.
27.      Most Ivorian agriculture consists of smallholder production of
cash crops of which the most important, in the forest zone, are cocoa and
coffee and, to a lesser extent, oil palm, coconuts, rice and cassava, and,
in the savannah region, cotton, yams, maize and other foodcrops. Industrial



- 8 -
plantations, the most important being rubber and oil palm, account only for
some 3 percent of total agricultural production. After a number of successful
efforts at diversification, cocoa and coffee still account for more than
half of the country's export earnings and about 35% of the value of farmgate
agricultural production. Cocoa production has increased rapidly; the volume
of output has quadrupled over 20 years from 94,000 t in 1961 to an expected
400,000 t in 1981 and is expected to increase substantially up to the mid-1980s
as a result of new plantings by farmers in the mid-1970s. Coffee output has
grown more slowly, reaching 300,000 t in 1973 and has since then stagnated at
that level, due to aging trees and insufficient maintenance and replanting.
Although the Ivory Coast retains the potential for considerable increased pro-
duction of both these crops, any expansion of output must be considered
in the light of the depressed world markets expected during most of the 1980s.
It is expected that the modest increases in coffee output generated by this
project (15,000 tons by 1995) will largely offset reductions in output result-
ing from old coffee trees being taken out of production in marginal areas.
The International Coffee Organization has been consulted during preparation
on the scope and design of this project, which conforms with ICO guidelines.
Institutions
28.        In order to execute agricultural development programs defined by
the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock, Government had over the years
created a large number of public enterprises to promote one or more specific
crops, including cocoa and coffee, oil palm, rubber, cotton, sugar, rice,
fruit and vegetables. These organizations have been responsible for providing
extension services, distribution of inputs and, in some cases, primary market-
ing of production. In 1977, Government announced major changes designed
to emphasize integrated rural development and provide support for smallholder
development on a decentralized regional basis. It was decided to transform
three existing agricultural agencies (CIDT, SATMACI and SODEPALM) into multi-
crop regional development agencies for agriculture, each responsible, under
the control of MINAGRI, for one of the three major agricultural zones of the
country. Some of the other crop agencies, e.g., SODERIZ (rice) and SOCATCI
(rubber) were dissolved. SATMACI was made responsible for smallholder
development in the inland forest zone, a role it has yet to exercise effec-
tively.
29.        SATMACI was established in 1958 as a state-owned agricultural
development company. Its main activities have been the provision of exten-
sion services to cocoa, coffee and more recently rice farmers in the forest
zone; the procurement and supply of agricultural materials; the commissioning
or construction of rural infrastructure, and the management of agricultural
credit. Marketing of cocoa and coffee are handled not by SATMACI, but by
the private sector under the control of CSSPPA 1/, which guarantees producer
1/   CSSPPA:  Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix de Produits
Agricoles (the agricultural price stabilization fund).



- 9 -
prices of these and other agricultural products and controls commodity sales
to the world market. SATMACI has implemented increasingly large annual
programs of cocoa plantings on behalf of Government, reaching 26,600 ha in
1980, but the yields of these programs have been low and the main increases
in cocoa output have arisen largely from the private initiatives of farmers.
In recent years, SATMACI's operating budget and administrative staff have
expanded disproportionately; moreover, its programs and the nature of the
extension services it provides have become increasingly ill-suited to current
needs. This project initiates a major reorientation of SATMACI's functions
and objectives and takes important interim steps in reorganizing its financial
and management structure (see paras. 35 and 36 below).
30.       Agricultural research is undertaken by several specialized insti-
tutes controlled by the Ministry of Scientific Research. Coffee and cocoa
research is undertaken hy the Institut Francais du Cafe et du Cacao (IFCC),
which acts also as the Technical Advisor to SATMACI and has provided some of
its senior technical staff. Most of the research work on food crops is done
by IDESSA (Institut pour le Developpement des Savanes) which operates one
research station in the Center-West region.
31.       The Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole (BNDA), the
main source of formal credit to smallholders, mostly operated in the past
through the crop development agencies which handled the credit in their
respective subsectors. BNDA is now actively engaged in decentralizing its
operations with the objective of dealing more directly with farmers and
village cooperative groups, promoting savings and monitoring its loan
portfolio. BNDA is well-managed and its loan recovery rates are generally
satisfactory. It operates five regional or branch offices in the Center-West
of which two would be expanded under the proposed project. This would help
to mobilize a greater amount of savings from the region, for which BNDA offers
a number of attractive schemes, as well as meet the expected increased demand
for agricultural loans.
The Current Agricultural Situation
32.       Over the past few years, Ivorian agriculture has lost much of its
vitality and has been facing increasingly serious problems involving several
factors. Of key importance has been the precipitous decline in coffee and
cocoa prices by more than 50 percent since 1977/78, which, with rising import
prices, led to a 35 percent decline in the terms of trade from 1978 to 1981.
The resulting fiscal stringency made it difficult for Government to fund
adequately even the essential services of the major agricultural public
enterprises, which have had to resort to heavy private borrowing, giving rise
to serious financial problems. At the same time, the institutional reforms of
1977 (see para. 28 above) led to increased administrative costs for the three
regional agencies. Moreover, the quality of investment decision-making
deteriorated and a large part of the limited public investment in agriculture
was allocated to the costly and uneconomic sugar program.
33.       The pattern of price, tax and subsidy policies for various crops
became increasingly inappropriate, giving rise to distortions in the mix
of agricultural output. Thus, Government maintained both its subsidy for



- 10 -
planting new cocoa acreage and equal producer prices for coffee and cocoa
since 1976, despite increasing evidence of generally stronger world markets
and higher unit production costs for coffee. The excessive producer price
for rice between 1974 and 1980 is another case in point.
34.       Resource constraints have also begun to emerge.  The past pattern
of expanding an extensive type of agriculture has led to rapid deforestation
as well as to increasing demands for farm labor. Recently, with increased
migration to urban areas, the supply of laborers has not been sufficient to
meet the growing demand for hired labor on medium and large sized farms in
the Center-West and shortages are frequently reported. The more intensive
pattern of agriculture being initiated by this project would not only alleviate
the long term consequences of excessive deforestation, but would also, through
increasing farm incomes, assist in reducing the pace of rural/urban migration.
Policy and Institutional Reform
35.       Government has recognized that agriculture continues to be the
sector with the most potential for the expansion of output, the regional
redistribution of income and for producing surpluses to support overall
development. In the course of defining a program of structural adjustment
(which the Bank is supporting under the SAL approved by the Board in November
1981)and during the preparation of this project, Government has agreed to
several far-reaching reforms to deal with the situation confronting Ivorian
agriculture. These include inter alia (i) a 60 percent reduction in the
government program for encouraging new cocoa acreage and the elimination of
cash subsidies for new cocoa plantations, (ii) the launching of a major
agricultural pricing and fiscal study, (iii) the adoption of financing plans
to cover the large accumulated arrears of the major agricultural public
enterprises, including SATMACI, (iv) a substantial reduction in SATMACI's
staffing and in its 1981 budget and the initiation of a longer term study of
its organization, management and finances, (v) an increase in the consumer
price of rice and increased involvement of the private sector of parastatal
rice marketing and milling operations, and (vi) a major program to strengthen
the Ministry of Agriculture's capacity for assessing, preparing and implement-
ing projects. Some of the reforms initiated under SAL have been essential
pre-conditions of proceeding with the Center-West project.
36.       The proposed project is very closely linked with the structural
adjustment program and is designed to transform several of the above policy
reforms affecting SATMACI into practical operational programs. As this
will be a complex managerial task involving changes in most aspects of
SATMACI's operations, the project has been designed to include the entire
program of SATMACI in the Center-West, one of the six regions in which it
operates. Under the project, SATMACI's regional office for the Center-West
will be strengthened and will achieve greater autonomy and be responsible
for implementing and monitoring the new policies, systems and procedures so
that they could be replicated in the five other regions at a later stage.
The project should demonstrate the viability of a more intensive system of
agriculture, focusing on maintenance and rehabilitation, and will establish
a totally new system of extension services that this entails. In addition,
SATMACI's present function of providing long-term cocoa planting loans and



- 11 -
its existing portfolio of such loans will be taken over by BNDA. SATMACI's
Commercial Division will be a financially self-supporting profit center,
providing at market prices those essential products inadequately stocked
by local traders. Government has agreed to provide SATMACI with adequate
working capital for this purpose as a condition of the proposed loan. (Loan
Agreement: Section 3.02).
Past Experience in the Sector
37.       The main focus of the Bank's substantial support for Ivorian agri-
culture (15 loans totalling US$168.6 million - see paras. 17 and 18 above)
shifted in the 1970s from plantation crops to smallholder production and, more
recently, to an integrated rural development approach. Overall, as confirmed
in PPAR reports, the Bank has made significant contributions, particularly in
oil palm, coconut, rubber and cotton development. The two Bank-supported
cocoa planting projects (IVC-686 and IVC-1069), both undertaken by SATMACI
and covering parts of the Center-West region, suffered from a single crop
approach, ineffective extension services and a lack of built-in monitoring and
evaluation systems. Whereas the PPAR on the first cocoa project (SEC M78-113)
indicated a rate of return above the appraisal estimate, more recent MINAGRI
survey data show much lower yields resulting from high planting losses, delays
in reaching the full production stage and poor maintenance by farmers. The
present project has been specifically designed to overcome these deficiencies
as well as to address the institutional weaknesses in SATMACI that earlier
projects revealed.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The project was identified in February 1979 jointly by the Bank
and BETPA, the project preparation unit of the Ministry of Agriculture.
BETPA prepared the project assisted by consultants financed by CCCE. The
project was jointly appraised by the Bank and CCCE in May 1981. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington in January 1982; the delegation was led by
Mr. Gbozia, Director, CAA and included representatives of MINFIN, SATMACI,
MINAGRI and BNDA. CCCE participated in the negotiations. Staff Appraisal
Report No. 3613-NC dated May 5, 1982, which is being distributed separately,
describes the project in detail. Supplementary project data is provided in
Annex III.
Project Objectives
39.       The project's main objective is to introduce innovative changes in
the system of agriculture in the Center-West region, involving more intensive
land use, diversified farming systems and increased rehabilitation, through
newly defined programs which should directly increase the productivity and
incomes of some 28,000 farm families, representing 35% of the smallholder
farming units in the project area. As these programs are to be administered
principally by SATMACI, the project also aims to introduce at the regional
level important policy, institutional and managerial reforms of this agency,
which should improve its effectiveness in catering to a wide range of farmers'



- 12 -
needs. The project further seeks to improve the delivery system of agricul-
tural credit in the area by strengthening BNDA's local services. It is
expected, following successful implementation of these programs, that similar
programs would be replicated by SATMACI's five other regional offices within
the forest zone.
Project Design and Description
40.        The project, to be carried out over five years, consists of a set
of technical packages for the development of a variety of crops and a closely
interrelated set of programs of agricultural services and institutional
support. To avoid a duality of management and extension structures within
this region, and to facilitate the dissemination of technical innovations,
all of SATMACI's programs in the Center-West have been integrated into the
project design so that they can be adapted over the project period to conform
to the needs of the new agricultural systems being introduced.
41.        Crop Development Programs.  The project makes arrangements for
SATMACI to assist farmers with the following programs:
(a)  to plant on some 10,000 farms about one ha each of improved selected
robusta coffee clones, from SATMACI nurseries, with food crops
grown for the first two years between coffee rows, to demonstrate
the efficacy of higher-yielding small coffee gardens over tradi-
tional extensive coffee cultivation; the planting of 250 ha of the
new hybrid Arabusta coffee in a pilot test zone by more advanced
smallholders able to deal with the technical problems involved; and
the regeneration of 14,300 ha on 10,800 farms of 10-25 year-old
coffee through heavy pruning and fertilizing. These programs are
collectively expected to yield about 15,000 t of coffee by 1995;
(b) to increase bottomland rice cultivation by 2,200 ha and to improve
upland rice output on 5,500 ha leading to incremental production
of about 12,500 t of paddy by 1987. SATMACI workshops would provide
reDair and maintenance services for the light machinery used in
bottomland rice;
(c) to improve maize, groundnuts and yams on 3,300 ha, 360 ha and
300 ha, respectively, resulting in an increased production of 5,500
tons of maize, 360 tons of groundnuts and 600 tons of yams;
(d) to rehabilitate about 4,450 ha of young cocoa planted in blocks, to
organize pest control treatment covering 1,750 ha of cocoa and
to introduce improved cocoa fermentation methods (leading to better
quality beans) on about 20,000 ha of cocoa. Total incremental cocoa
production is estimated to be about 1,500 tons by 1995; and
(e) to plant about 300 ha of coconuts as a potential diversification
crop surrounding the bottomlands.



- 13 -
42.       Institutional and Agricultural Service Support.  SATMACI's regional
office in the Center-West and its operating systems will need substantial
reorganization and support to enable it to implement the project objectives,
to undertake the above programs and to continue its general support of
agricultural production in the area. Key measures to be implemented under
the project include:
(a) strengthening the management and staffing of SATMACI's regional
office at Daloa, which as the project implementation unit would have
prime responsibility for overall project staffing and for commitment
of project funds, and of its Commercial Division;
(b) a major reorientation and reinforcement of SATMACI's extension
services including the establishment of a new extension approach
focusing on improved farm management, initially in a pilot zone of
30 villages, but which by 1987 should cover most of the region; the
addition of 50 field agents; enlarging the capabilities of SATMACI's
Center-West training center at Gagnoa so as to provide basic courses
for about 280 extension workers and more advanced courses to upgrade
about 60 of them into agricultural advisors;
(c) creation in SATMACI of an adequately staffed unit to be responsible
for assistance to some 360 village cooperatives which would play a
growing role in obtaining group credit and input supplies, and in
crop marketing for smallholder farmers;
(d) creation of a small applied research unit in SATMACI, with close
links to the main agricultural research institutes, which would
undertake on-farm studies concentrating on real smallholder
conditions;
(e) establishment in SATMACI of a well-staffed monitoring and evaluation
unit, with a sound program to assess project performance during
implementation, paying particular attention to the effectiveness of
extension services and to the management of the crop development
programs; and
(f) the expansion of two of the five BNDA branch offices in the region
to meet the expected increase in demand for agricultural credit.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
43.       The total financing required for the project is estimated at US$55.1
million over five years, of which foreign exchange costs amount to US$18.6
million (34 percent), and customs duties and identifiable taxes amount to
US$8.6 million. This financing requirement covers the full program of activi-
ties to be undertaken by SATMACI in the Center-West region, which the proj-
ect is designed to transform substantially. In order to estimate the incre-
mental costs of the project, the 1981 level of SATMACI expenditures in the
project area have been excluded for each year of the project. On this assump-
tion, the total project costs are estimated at US$34.2 million, including



- 14 -
US$5.6 million in taxes. The above estimates are based on end-1981 prices and
include (a) physical contingencies of 15% on civil works, 10% on operating
expenses and 5% on other costs except wages, salaries and technical assistance,
and (b) price contingencies of 12% p.a. on local costs and of 8.5% declining
to 6% p.a. on foreign costs. Project costs include pre-project training costs
of US$330,000 of which US$250,000 is being financed by the Bank under a Proj-
ect Preparation Facility advance. Project costs include US$4.5 million for
technical assistance at an average of US$13,500 per staff-month (covering
salaries, benefits, travel overheads and Ivorian income taxes) and about
US$800,000 for short-term consultants at an average of US$11,900 per staff-
month (not subject to Ivorian income taxes).
44.       Project costs of US$34.2 million would be financed jointly by loans
from the Bank (US$13.0 million) and CCCE (US$4.0 million), with a Government
contribution of US$8.9 million and BNDA financing of US$8.3 million for far-
mers inputs. The US$17.0 million of joint external financing would cover just
over 60% of net of tax project costs and includes US$11.6 million of foreign
exchange costs. CCCE has decided not to limit its own contribution to project
costs, but also to provide US$11.0 million of parallel financing for SATMACI's
program in the project area, as part of its overall balance of payments and
budgetary support to the Ivorian Government in a period of acute financial
stringency. This parallel financing would be used principally to cover sal-
aries and operating costs of extension services in the project area. The
effectiveness of CCCE financing totalling US$15.0 million equivalent would be
a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan (Section 6.01 (f) of draft Loan
Agreement).
45.       Funds equivalent to the total external loans (US$28.0 million:  Bank
US$13.0 million plus CCCE US$15.0 million) as well as Government's contribu-
tion to the total financing requirement of US$13.0 million, including US$6.6
million of taxes on expenditures, would be passed on as grants to SATMACI
(US$40.0 million) and BNDA (US$0.8 million) to cover expenditures, with US$0.2
million being provided to MINAGRI for its foreign consultancy costs. The
remaining US$14.1 million of total financing required is to cover inputs to be
acquired by participating farmers, for which it has been estimated that some
US$8.3 million would be financed on credit provided by BNDA. Whereas in the
past deposits from farmers and rediscount facilities at the Central Bank have
provided BNDA with adequate funds for these purposes, Government has agreed to
ensure that BNDA will have sufficient funds to meet the credit requirements of
farmers in the project area (Section 3.07 of draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
46.       SATMACI would be responsible for overall project implementation,
except for the short-term studies to be carried out by MINAGRI and for the
expansion of BNDA offices. SATMACI's Center-West regional office, which
would execute the project, would be substantially strengthened under the
project by hiring about 30 senior staff, of which six would be internationally
recruited on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The recruitment of
one of the latter, the Technical Director for the project, and of a suitable
Project Manager would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement,



- 15 -
Section 6.01.c). To facilitate project implementation and avoid cash-flow
problems which have affected earlier Bank financed SATMACI projects, a revolv-
ing fund of US$4.4 million, to cover an estimate of six months of project
related expenditures will be set up at the CAA. It will be funded by the
co-financiers in proportion to their financing (net of taxes and of inputs
purchased by farmers), i.e. US$1.9 million from CCCE, US$1.7 million from the
Bank and US$0.8 million from the Government. The establishment of the project
and revolving fund accounts and the deposit by Government of its contribution
to the revolving fund would be conditions of loan effectiveness (Section
6.01(d) and (e): Loan Agreement). Government and SATMACI would enter into an
agreement (Convention) governing SATMACI's obligations and responsibilities,
including staffing, the flow of project funds, accounting and banking pro-
cedures, and covering pre-financing arrangements by Government. The signing
of this Convention, on terms satisfactory to the Bank, would also be a condi-
tion of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a): Loan Agreement). A further
condition of loan effectiveness would be the signature of an agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, between Government and BNDA defining BNDA's tasks
and responsibilities under the project (Section 6.01(b): Loan Agreement).
Selection of technical assistance staff for the project would be made by
MINAGRI and SATMACI according to Government and Bank established guidelines.
It is expected that the above arrangements will ensure satisfactory imple-
mentation of the project.
Procurement
47.       Civil works valued at a total of US$5.3 million, consisting of bot-
tomlands development, access tracks and water points in the pilot zone, and
the construction of staff housing, field workshops and offices, which are
scattered throughout the project area would be procured by local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank, with foreign bidders having the
opportunity to participate. Equipment for SATMACI (US$1.1 million of which
Bank would finance US$0.8 million) would be grouped as far as possible and
procured by ICB according to Bank guidelines, or by local competitive proce-
dures for contracts below US$100,000. Local staff salaries and operating
costs would be committed by SATMACI in accordance with established Government
procedures. Technical assistance would be procured in accordance with Bank
and Government procedures for international recruitment of consultants. It is
expected that the Commercial Division of SATMACI would sell about half of the
US$14.1 million of farm inputs required (mainly herbicides, insecticides,
fertilizers, sprayers, and pruning tools) to cooperative groups and individual
farmers, with the balance being supplied by competitive distributors in the
area. These inputs will not be financed by the Bank but SATMACI will procure
them using local procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursement
48.       The Bank loan would be disbursed over six years and would cover:
(a) 50% of the total costs of civil works, technical assistance and
consultancy services, aerial photography with interpretation and
mapping, and of specified BNDA local salaries and operating costs;



- 16 -
(b) 70% of specified equipment costs;
(c) 25% of SATMACI's local salaries and operating costs in the center-
west region, and
(d) refinancing in full of the PPF advance for staff training.
US$1.5 million of the Bank loan would be unallocated. Disbursements for
expenditures on civil works, equipment and vehicles, technical assistance and
consultants services, and aerial photography would be fully documented. Dis-
bursement for local salaries and operating costs of SATMACI and BNDA would be
against certified statements of expenditure: full supporting documentation,
showing costs incurred by category, would be retained for inspection by the
Bank.
Production, Prices and Marketing
49.       The main direct effects of the project's crop development programs
will be increases in the area's production of coffee (15,000 t by 1995),
rice (12,500 t by 1987) and maize (5,500 t by 1987). There would also be
relatively small increases in the area's output of cocoa, groundnuts, yams and
coconuts.
50.       Given the expected depressed world markets for cocoa and, to a
lesser extent, coffee (see paras. 27, 33 and 35 above), Government has agreed
to consult the Bank following a review of the producer prices of these two
crops. The increases in official producer and consumer prices introduced by
Government in early 1981 and February 1982 will reduce the Government deficit
on rice milling and handling operations by more than 50%, but it is expected
that significant further cost savings can be achieved by reorganizing rice
collection and milling arrangements. Government is currently negotiating
with three private firms to assist in the management of these operations in
the three main agricultural zones of the country. Negotiations covering the
project area are proceeding well and Government has undertaken to put the
proposed new arrangements in the project area into effect no later than
October 1982, in time for the next rice harvest. (Loan Agreement: Section
3.05). There are no official prices for the other food crops affected by the
project and the increased output is expected to be mainly absorbed within the
region. A marketing officer to be recruited under the project would assist
farmer's groups with marketing of surplus food crops.
Financial Aspects, Audits and Reporting
51.       Over the five-year implementation period, the project would create
an estimated demand on Government resources, ofCFAF 8.7 billion (US$32.2
million). However, over a 15-year period, Government would derive a cumulative
net inflow of some CFAF 26.6 billion (US$98.5 million) in constant 1987 terms,
after financing recurrent project costs and external debt service. This
income would derive mainly from export taxes and CSSPA marketing surpluses on
export of incremental coffee production.



- 17 -
52.       Both SATMACI and BNDA would have their accounts audited by indepen-
dent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and their reports would be submitted
to the Bank within six months of the end of their fiscal years. SATMACI's
independent auditor would also audit the project accounts and the statements
of expenditure against which reimbursements from the co-financiers were
claimed. SATMACI would prepare quarterly reports showing actual against
budgeted project expenditures, statements of progress achieved and objectives
for the following quarter.
Economic Benefits and Project Risks
53.       In estimating the economic returns of the project, only the expected
economic value of increased production of coffee, rice and maize arising
directly from project financing were taken into account. The value of the
relatively small increased outputs of cocoa, coconuts, yams and groundnuts
were not included in the calculation. A comparison of these calculated incre-
mental benefits with the total costs of SATMACI's program in the project area,
including all extension and other support service costs as well as incremental
farm labour and input costs, results in an economic rate of return of 28 per-
cent. Sensitivity analyses demonstrate the robustness of the project's eco-
nomic worth. It would require the long-term economic price of the critical
crop coffee, or expected coffee yields, to drop by over 50 percent for the
rate of return to fall to 12 percent. Excluding the benefits from rice or
maize totally from the analysis would not affect the rate of return signifi-
cantly. Finally, although unquantifiable, the benefits of the major institu-
tional reform of SATMACI that the project supports should not be ignored in an
overall assessment of the project.
54.       The main risk that the project faces is that its innovative character
may prove to be beyond SATMACI's regional management and extension service
capabilities. The project, itself, seeks to develop these capabilities through
substantial technical assistance, supported by research and training programs.
The major monitoring and evaluation program, supported by project financed
consultant services should further reduce this risk to an acceptable level.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory Coast and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement among the Bank, SATMACI and BNDA and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
56.       The draft agreements conform generally to the normal pattern for
agricultural projects. Special conditions of the loan agreement are listed
in Section III of Annex III.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, DC
May 5, 1982



- 19 -
TABLE 3A                                                 ANNEX I
IVORY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                    Page 1
IVORY COAST                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             322.5                                   MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       68.5                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPlTA (US$)                    270.0        540.0    1150.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        71.0        209.5      230.2                  707.5                    1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  3460.0         5000.0    8262.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 19.3            27.6      39.6                   27.7                       64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          14.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            47.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         10.7         15.5       24.6                   55.0                      34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       61.2         86.7      115.9                  130.7                      94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.8         42.9       44.7                   46.0                      40.7
15-64 YRS.                           53.6         55.0       53.3                   51.2                      55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.6           2.2       2.0                    2.8                       4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.1          3.7/c      5.0/c                  2.8                       2.4
URBAN                                6.0           7.3       8.6                    5.1                       3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        50.2        49.3       49.6                   46.9                      31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       26.2          21.0      17.5                   15.8                       8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.3          3.3       3.3                    3.2                       2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)            99.0         97.0      111.0                   89.9                     108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    118.3        118.8      106.6/d                92.3                      107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            56.6         59.4       53.27E                 52.8                      65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         14.8         16.0       15.8/d                 16.1                      34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       39.3         32.3       26.1                   20.2                       7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.2           42.2       47.1                   50.8                      64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            173.0        148.5      126.8                     ..                      70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..       19.0/e                 27.4                      65.7
URBAN                                  ..          ..       50.0/e                 74.3                      79.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..        5. 0o7                12.6                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         5.0       25.0/e                   ..                      59.9
URBAN                                 ..         23.0       33.0/e                   ..                      75.7
RURAL                                  ..          ..       22.0/                    ..                      30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           29187.0/f   14084.5   15220.0/g                13844.1                    1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2920.071i    2880.2/f  2368.071, g             2898.6                    1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              678.8        792.7         ..                 1028.4                     471.2
URBAN                                 ..        492.7         ..                 423.0                      558.0
RURAL                                 ..       1331.4         ..                3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                3.4/i          ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                1.8/i         ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                1.O/j         ..         ..
URBAN                                0.7/k         ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..



- 20 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                              Page 2
IVORY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
IVORY COAST                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE9AGES
- MOST RECgNT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  46.0         63.0       74.0                   73.7                     101.7
MALE                  68.0         81.0       91.0                   96.8                     103.0
FEMALE                24.0         46.0       58.0                   79.0                     101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0           9.0      15.0                   16.2                      35.3
MALE                   4.0          14.0      23.0                   25.3                      34.9
FEMALE                 1.0          4.0        8.0                   14.8                      35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  12.7             7.4      ll.O/e                  5.3                       30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             40.7         45.0       41.1                   36.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                              ..        21.1         ..                   23.6                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           5.0/j      20.0       41.2                     ..                      80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.3         11.3       11.9/e                 32.3                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          15.9         15.0      118.1                   69.0                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4/h        4.6       41.0/d                  8.0                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     2.3         8.8        6.7                   20.2                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        0.8                    0.7                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1857.9       2658.0    4127.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    46.2         42.7       41.5                   36.7                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               89.0         84.0       79.0                   56.6                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   2.0          3.0        4.0                   17.5                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  53.7        53.2       50.0                   37.2                      31.8
MALE                                   58.4         59.3      56.5                   47.1                      49.0
FEMALE                                49.1         46.7       42.9                   27.5                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.9          0.8       0.9                    1.3                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   30.9/1            ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.87T            ..      50.0/1, m
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6/1           ,,        9.0/1, m
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.571           ..       20.07T'
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      274.0                  381.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..       96.0                  156.2                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      487.0                  334.3                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      244.0                  137.6                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   Tue group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to immigration population growth rate is higher than rate of natural increase;  /d 1977;  /e 1976;
/f Government personnel only;  /g 1975;  /h 1963;  /i 1957-58, African population in the city of Bouake
only;  /j 1962;  /k 1956-57;  /1 Population;  /m 1973-74.
(Preliminary)
May, 1982



- 21-                                                                                                .ANNEX I
um Of SCA  ocT.OM                      ~          Zi i * ?''t   t~o                                         Page  3
rotor.  fCh.p ara (17 teem ftooctwry   o    o ~&ly . sabisth -oatroc() a 0h0r5.0.7 stoo alible.i   4 sootSber Moeted ch.,  they    L . ao.cr  aroap
-CL  blyo ..oq ctry  (suasp  fotr  1-kf 1.00        011adie  dfaporO oss ru -do-.Pt10-ad byc dierstb ,Afrtica t L1.1 oletst"  t. at... baos  otf  Ctra
sOI.-   tta   tfaal..   Is Lb.  sf-ras. Me         toop ido- tha - at- taics aeet. epltlo . n-ts'MJ. cotdl f.,       sa fab. .-      tiao   .  ss         cy
salrIt .of L. cas..iP.      in a1 Uo.    ha. data for Lis  totLuator.  -Is.7  (bs a .srs  of ao.7 P.* ants cbs Lodloatar  dap.Ps   LbsPM  aslabLlLc  O-f data
0.4 La ajft uMbra.tuto (-. t C.,  oxtloat I  ral~ootpo.rs   of.   Wm. Latiotat t  Ideestb                 Tiash MCIass  ot  ondly goafaL. .1w  ba      l, fb  01..  It
0f staO    Latin  sas   cb  aaocr  04- rfac.  frau .s.                 -p.t--gt                    .tet.-          .,.btd.C.WAe,.l    0
f  .         C     A  (thoacard                         "L   .    SZ.th                  t Ia.  pOpLota  Memes Epthe  ltdic. - total  M. urban   o  ruralbi-t to.a o   (total
Tacol - Total  .Crfouo.o    Loorl do 1.4 rs  ad bloIato.t.r.; 1379  a.                            rC    c dece.      dLo.ts  by tbolr ososait   = .-rofholtLb
Atiaraloot-   - toiMeta  of             -talusla.  uad tsopoaLily or poontastly                  cosiabl  t. P I.ha 0.  PrIroa   .sti  Spaol.aL  .t booicl   40*
f.,  -rop. P-C-a.., we'kst ad ktlcbs  srtaswa or to .115 folos; 1979 data.                     h" lL cloLo  astara.  Ncepltals -.  wsc*lisicint   por,onacly  sc.-f
by ccIsaac as  Pbylyiato.  EacabLieh.cca proolisi.  prL-ofp.ily ... t.-
GNP Pt  CAlf TA (ULk$) - IN? pea toIc  Ott-ca    at _stcteakt PCILso  a0                            Llaao.ot thelotsd.' Wei h.sspLt.l.. beWsr. 1.0104. bsaith
raoa   y  a    oascoLbd  .ara  ah01. (53744  bao.)e1e.L4  .ta                                                      wecs .Coa  Me Mwb.a:17t.19affa  by . qbyalain  (b.c bya
1970, oat 1300 taca.                                                                             asito  a.aloteet. -too,a midwife, a..C) which atitsr Le.-p.ctL           .-
A-L   f   -.1.1  -a  (C."                      tdLl. 04 poods    ISItd    .. a   Wmtua.                                "Lltia  arsas
t Lt   009T0   U117       oalaasta    tantliar                             001da  .,.Iao b.lob.. hospital.  h.c..d                           tl  -  .. 00   rctlg ,l we aspita... u
LrLCIL) Is  ilusr.a atcoal  qoir-lo-  p.r  .Pit.; 1960. 1970.  c  1I97                   c.sto....   SpaoiLttd hto.pltaI. or. lalsAMd .019 aca   toal
data.                                                                 ,i.oso.~~~~~~~~'M . tlMsit  54  . Total  o.W-   f ed"..sLwe  toortlOharZat
fr MhsIa. dewdo  by tao .asho  of hd."
POPOLTII05f19 VTALSTAISITICS
Tao  .ooaLoc.  Ld_tsa Cthau_Oat   - A.  Aat    y L; 1960. 1970. 0.4 19400                  012414
tac.                                                                                        kso.Io   fbabL    croaptbssod    o.                             Crhao   0  rt
Uthas PODul.tLac (Deroatc at total) -  0010 at -Aria. cc tot. Iooolc                                .ossdcnoso*Bo.a   Oitol   t   ht  lilqact
tLff raa  t.(ItsLc ooflos oredo so,  ffat~ -oo-billlty ot taC.                                 0.4  ftheir asia aoLa.   Ahoder o-  lad,.r  my or my cot ho LOolata  10
-ng    t1or.oa; 10. 1970. 5.4  1960 ataco                                                   tIc haaobs1d faasol.to  pevabooa.
"PuclaclosPoolc                                                                                 ...af.   fMos   s   a    ftotlobs.  Ma4 tol - M-aag  eeot-
Purlatos  0  toO200  -Ctr.t, lop.laclaca.               bi0sar   .oad 01940                                                            -.1fpr0o  a   ost   llobt  ua  atopld   -oasttoal
total P.PolotL.. by ago oat Mo 04 choir nttallty  .   tartlty ta.-.                         daL&lnso. tcOpeetteloy.  OMMLlLcgO  ooladw no-potasoct .,-C.-uo    oMA
ProSJettoc Point.r. tar so,-rts] -cytaco  c ri_r of  Ar  I.-L. .*_,                           -..Ptemlo  pasts
sotoC  f.f ortstllty t.Co        ha,. thme  lowels 7asoolo  daiLn   o I                     o  totl.. arbos. o4  -totl twoLIsg  -npooUMnIY.
fCtltcarlc t oa    0.1L ao  p"t foally plas.Lcu poft torso..
Coot corty       hew10  osijpd an  of chaos ci. Cosjblcatt        ft socLty            0030AT1O6
004d fortllcy Ir..setfs tot .prloaclo  pr.atoa.                                            A4kot!0449101sp041i
ScaLocary PocoLacLio    -. Ioc t -leay PoPolLLibe LIsts 10 a  geCr:bi  10                        iii~lo4.sl ML.0.4 Anl.-Gra. total. 0.1. sot fan1
ti. hItch rats is o-ltol to o. doocth rato. 50d ala  cho as. strutoro  r-                       ectalInto t .11  50a  tbs ptl0.ty10,0  00 P..r.o..a.. of OssP0tl,
.0100   -taca.        UL00Iaoulha-d aely aftto   hotuiiy rot. toollo  co                       Proasa  eobeel-OS. pool               ree. en.ly i-Ilado  Childto  010  6-11
0.1  reyosCt 101 of urit at roprdtotl   rotc.. shoe oat. aAco-Libo                             Ysars ho  odjasot tot dittsos.c lnftgbh  at PrILMry  aaata            o
.sLoo   a h.cbeefal  of ci. V.., atat chotC.otsloLc. of Lb. boai-o aa    -a  pwVIo ott bolos or sla- lbs afflalo1 school .s
(a to _rar  005  54 chs rats ot 40011. of fertility reto to r-ploa-                        Sooor   tat-Lcl01   0    e.- Coc.ao  sc ohoo; sscaa0ay
soo  1-oa.                                                                                     .dato   ootca   co   otyears6 at apotovo  Pranrey lcoaL
Nat ot.tiocar   io      tLac Iseached - NI. yewo abs ccsCLanr  PoPMIAtIO                         pft,tds. ss.oral. ocOa1ocL. atC.sbe  tr-inin   L ... -tioO  f at popils
cbsw sIll ha oscd.                                                                             .Isoly at 12 to 17 ,ooro of-satrtsad                   or.. or. weedtaly
P.r so. kts.   KtdL-Y.ar paplatlo. par .ba. kLot (100 h..taOa)  LllcaIaoin   s.a.   fstooy  LVoaoLoa .Lts..t......
ttlt.;160. 1970 tat 1979 aato.                                                        eltlods 1=1bcLOal. lotoottll. or othar ptorede .,bc    P.t... Ibep-d-
Per .0. 0.      I .. ar l.ac l..   - CopCed o- abe,  for aalottL. lot                             ly ot a  dcpotntoe  of ofoodadt Licsal-uhoc
oclyA 1960. 1970 sa  194 Ata.                                                             PCO11---tosa rcl.U         ary   . aodry-?tal  todweto act-LI"  to
Poualcic t-     tr                  ChiIdtn  Il-14 y-aSl, osrkla5-ft. (1)-                 ptLsocy 004 Mewb.d.    loal  Wst. t].y E.~ooo   aa ot   b
ho yoots) (, art  "rsttc     1    sa  d ots)aspoewcoas.  of tlt'ica   9090_                    .-rnpedAng 1sslo..
1011.; 1960. 1370.  ed, 1oa0 tac.                                                            Aotllsor aslara -0 "St    ILtewcte                   .bts labi  to teod 04  -tlt.)
mlocno  far  P91-60  C909. C0   37-".Ad-                  bC.e f-b pp-                        PomuTovoetCr   srLoo.  oofie       aosa   oscoto   oa
Cr-40 iltl Rots (Pct thooa-dl - Aweewl liebsirtabo P., choa...   of 514-yo                       car..... cotLc  10.. ci.  lt L   oroas  ostldassfSaas  h-ssed 00
p" W-lati; 1930. 1070. ott 1940 tata.                                                          silOtay osblis*..
C'..s D..th Lets (Mat ChousooLi - Asco-l d-sb. pot thoasc   a   odya                           0.4t. bom    -.r  (Per                  Lee.)aocoa~oo     All lye., af  -oai-   for rodia
1P.pL.tiao; 1960, 1970. .,W 1900 daa.itdA.t   oi.s.  pslaprItsa                                                                               f popolacLot; soclados.
=ot aoal  aprourtl.   7.14Itcs         -oot..c prosot ocs-sPaLft I  ts-                      coaan0   f st  Mt,r fIr 0000.   yats  a  sot ho .asPaabll  .1-0
tailiy rat.; acaslly f lt-ysr - &M s        ..dae . sc L.;1  1960. 1970, .4d 1930.             sot  ootrs  aholLs5d L'Cas.la4.
P0.1) Plianlc          P Oat rs. A"sO   (Loaea)-.ol t.r  of ...P.pcr                           17Totalvars1 los1.t tfoodrAMC=Lo) - ~C- rOOI,    f.r br-ttos  to
at hiti-catroltoNIs ustt ooploo.at at.cI fftsly  planc  po.         s.Boa   abl   a   iss0   P.pM.oia.;  Wcldsootioao  rV  -aI,r.
U0,Pln. -         (Unto   fttaa   at aried  -n)   P-PtoC.ga of werrlot                 L-  -osatL.. sad to yeers  . A-  -lAot.Ola  Mt TV1 cot. as1ofal
emt'sO4 aun    .co   ov  soop.                                                                  C.,               scro  tooao  .-spP-Pe.  dsfLtoo  he a petidiool
PubILoal..i   tsctd Pei-filly to rstatdlm  soewhel  -n.  It Is CanL6dto
to ho `4totSy- It L, oPpt-. ot lbeaf f- stcLass o  wes,
(0400 of Pa  Ptadoaalaa050 CoaLto  1939-)l.i03   - Scoot atP.t -apita.sa      Csa -I    01 acesta, oI AM 2M "    Uc   Yew Tsa- 94.93 00 tho o.ewe  of
PoodottLs of allf oat aontLtlss.Pradalt cstlato  a.   act faed otlheo01    r.atcy:ct. lalt Led ed"."-a to trIo-to. Clesas
1  ...Icaleda  Y.cr boab.  Con        .Cant prissy, .ad. (o... -oort-                      ad 0.b1l0  -it..
Itta  of .cssr  hblb Mrs edible ad a-assi  tft             k.s;.g. ..ff- n a
tea cr. s._leded ).  hgarelts PrC"-,rCl  of  Wot  oaowttr  L. hoo.      0                  .11P0
totan    -Pas~  Pr-doa-  PrltanIuts;IlI .1970. s.d 190 were.                              TtlIo   crsthcat)- f                       ..o L,al   tllprs..lldn
ts.r La0S It scaly st cLori..lar o         f pl   toatltafa)   COoptodfi                         at for   oca0poydb.   -XnLoa   bssoso *-                     odoc.ac.
stotf  oqsoslas  at   t fot  uplo  ao oL. 1.ao.typ.   aptolveig ppsLsCIn of .10 ape.  0sf lottIns  t  vans  aa.cl    r
P., da.   ,0101  sopl.   ooao  tuasotL   pocdotti. iopsat.  la LeeuMCtoarb    1940. 1970 ad  1340 were.
pt.;.-ad ahoas   L. stork.  met MopplLoo sallds aaS.l fad, soot.,                                       at.   Femelo Lb.,s feet.  Portso                at . Ioo  labor fot.-
qasoLlttos  o.0 10 tadprassolog.0.4 10.0.0to tlattbhtl*..  IaqML,M-                                EL~4~4401) - L""0 fattt Is farttp. fwedtecr. boctl .d
ally ad  is Lt coOoldra -ao.toetta   tctaeL.t.  hoyLe.t   s                                    lg9l~9       oa  frot   lb.ostat.nsstrs
icoobOl  10001;1954d   1970P ad  1977 data                                                    1960. 1970em    Cwe Ieei-u"f  ad  1300mcjp dots. brfe.;1IG,17      L*d
to cica asalh of 4root"l    itr . o  00 t- Protsl   bedas   of bts tapa                      P.Vt ffoto lass los t L-  tobs. as. L                             wo .pl- erweeeot-s or
15   a il ftad.L. pa  day.: sac  uppy ofto    10 tatlso    as" abas. to-                  atlot  taoM      o   opntts   oaa.C       seetv  foasla 101st tstts 
aoosso  60,Bra  uf Cocol protoi  pat toy a" d 20 arce of coLnal s.                       1960. 1970. ad  L,40 taco.  Tha-  oos bsoOd - 11.0'. PerttiptLti   totes
psI.. Prrt. Lo. of bLab 10 Sm. absld is osinl-  pt.... J.  Than  5LtJ                         roflsotlc1  apan twte a of  bs popLttot. aed 1005 cIa tint.  Al
ards or. lose  tbs. Ohwe of 71 arew of tatal process an  23 Iran  of                           fs cotinta  or. 0l ra  ottasc  sauoa.
amla   Protole -x oMer---   for tao werId. Pepropoo  by PAD Lo It.. Thira10 Ik am                                3001e"M". - Stso at popoloolos od     5 ad  11 .sd    r
W., l4 toot Ouny; 1961-91. 1970 ad 1977 data.                                                  o. t   totaL lb1c  E.,,.
no.  trt oLal  adpolos  o sasopsoda;1961-61. 1970 oat 197  taco 
ac =tu  1-4)ysRm. t  ctlldtoc ICthlo- agOtroep.60fa pe nat tysloiogcs-                      $ptoL   tis   0Itsc  p55c2   oa.   c   oro   0r
atCo  at  trls  lot  hIts  011.; 194.  19t0 ad.  19t -tCod.                                 Of oanncCt
AtIT                                                                                        POVUTCPI TAAf                                     P-er. 14P--400eel
01. hcrdti;      df           lf.tb 1960, 1190 ad  1010 0ott.                                00  oh-1old.h.aapoa    tIcoodrbsasla
atOopo   iaaO   iu   Its  16 .1970  rt 196  data   If.                                     P Olclt  poGot  lenC-             s   ata   cao100   on.1t     iia
Acaso C ta. Acot(paaso  oftoclotoOS   toal.itb. Ot trd     ab-           ctrLLo.Idy adobsoto... dLo  plusb        clla-oo    ogL s1   u
hotatp031  (Ocl.or..  a   trd th-     oLc.-  Ie'lol t.h   acat.f . to oats               atfotoMC1  bi..Ine, ,b
roco.oS      oa  tl   tce      ,ILv Pep 1:lo1thas    s0  urbL. at.c PoilLc -0t50101 dtooos o                            tie O0tty1  0010. Lso  lc Ostd -4fro-. t L. roto
ltecls0 U"      Opat  ocas  ta Lra  Lbs.20  ato. trt     bonsyf ts   l                                   uutatt1g.  oLoflrt   0abt.0
cclsrdas110   511 ...L.5l5orsNeelIbo 1_0.   1  ouro  araLatt 'yboOaalOlb    blc    osty1 m101(rct      r
r.a Mply orc.LAsoool.   l t. hat do hasolf  or e      noto-   al Lb    -1-4sl            C.,4tr        sco   fpplao   alsotrot   h   t   Ool
do cot hove to spat a t        -fpotaao   part at tic                                                      ,.-ay  It foathIat cia:
If thsoO 10 toctbt  Olo.oP., --I  Ltat ate usul,tl ol -  a-t J. ucCt,daft tlb.l--
Lb. -t o- lo. aped Mtiopol -.Vth Ot lpert tosthe. oe f. soaroth
fito... .... O ca4..
P.  laLa9.  soh.L. Osran C- Poacl1ti-t401    by  .t.cr a   -raln                                                                                layI19"
slb. a041-suaSo ardasts ras. 5t0010.soet torsos e.           fralel toebrn,  .0
torIa :t -1b llIr                    .tms.  tteefpi osL." .LL



-22-
ANNEX I
Page 4
IVORY COAST - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
PopuLation:  8,240 (mid-1980, thoua-nds)
CNP per capita: US0I,250 (1980)
(million US$                                                     Ann.U I gersth rates (7.I)  t constant enices -
Indicator                          at current prices)                          Actual                                  Preli=i-ary                                Projected
1980                               -  -  -      ------ -----          - ------------   ----   -    _  _                      --------------------
1975        1976        1977       1978         1979        1980         1981        1982         1983        1984        1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
iCcu  Du.oestic Product a/                  10523                  7.0        12.3          6.7        9.9         4.7          6.8         3.6          5.4         6.7         9.1          8.9
Agriculture                                2659                 15.5         3.1          3.9        3.6         4.0         13.0         3.2          3.7         4.2         4.9         4.9
loduntro                                   2488                  6.9        15.6        19.0        24.9         5.1          9.4         0.1         2.5          6.0         8.1         8.1
Suroices                                   5278                  1.1        16.1          7.6       16.1         5.0          1.4         1.8         3.6          5.7         8.2         8.2
Counuoptien                                   8053                 9.6        13.3         22.3        1.5         6.1          3.2         1.6          3.9         6.3         7.6          8.0
ron svinrec                                   31 20               15.4        27.4        44 1         9.1         3.8          6.5         1.2          4.6         4.4         7.8          6.4
Exputts of GNPS                               3434                -6.3        12.8       -15.7        27.9        -1.7         10.9         1.2          3.6         8.9        12.2         11.3
Imports of GNFS                              4087                 -6.8        21.7        26.3        25.2         1.6          5.9        -4.4         O.O2         5.8         7.6          7.3
G.ross Natiunal.  utings                      1574                 1.6        18.6       -97.5       -22.1       -19.8       -26.5         10.3        12.9          9.7        17.8         14.7
PRICES
l.DP Deflato-  (1980   100)                                      54.5         64.8        81.5       90.1         91.1       100.0        106.8       115.6       125.1       134.9        154.4
E-chauge Rato (0S01       )                                      214.3       239.0       245.7       225.6       212.7       211.3        268.0       220.0
ShAue uof GP at Barket Prices (i)                                     Average Aoou.l Increas- e (.  )
(at current prices) b/                                              (at nuostant pnice-)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990             1960-1970    1970-1975        1975-1980       1980-1985       19S5-1990
Gcr-- Dolestic Pooduct                                    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                 8.0           5.5             7.4             6.8             8.0
Agriculture                                              43.5    27.2    28.8    25.0    22.1    19.1                 4.2           4.3             2.9             4.2            4.9
Iodustry (locludiog  .il)                                14.1    21.5    21.5    31.3    36.7    39.3               11.S            6.7            12.2             5.1            8.1
Services                                                 42.4    113    49.7    43.7    41.2    41.6                 9.7            5.7            -1.0             5.6            8.2
Ceo-mpiuon                                                 82.9    76.8    80.3    76.5    72.0   72.1                  8.5           4.6             9.3             5.6             9.2
in   I-esun   t                                            14.6    22.1    22.4    29.6    27.1    22.3                12.7           6.6            17.9             1.0             2.9
tuports of GNFS                                            37.1    38.9    38.0    32.8    33.6    33.6                 5.5           8.4             1.9             7.6            8.0
Imports of CNFS                                            34.5    37.7    40.7    38.8    32.8    31.1                6.8            9.2            10.8             3.6            6.7
Gross Natio-al Saviogs                                     10.6    17.0    11.7    14.9    19.9    20.6                 7.2           7.2              4.9            5.9             0.7
As % of GDP
1960       1970       1975       1978
PUBLIC FINANCE (7
Curre- t Reveuues                                                 28.0       20O.       19.8       20.6
Currer IExpenditureu                                              14.6       16.1       16.4        15.2
Sorplu I (+) or Deficit (-)                                        5.4        4.0        3.4        5.4
Capitel Expendi-ure                                                4.9        7.5        8.4        3.1
Foreign Fonemciog                                                  0.7        1.4        1.4        0.1
1960-1970      1970-1975       1975-1980       1980-1985      1985-1990
OThER INOICATORS
GNP Crouth Rate (I)                                         7.9             5.6            7.4             6.9             8.4
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (7.)                              -               -             29              2.3              .7
Energy Censumption   on-th Rate (3)                          -               -               -            33.9             7.3
ICOc                                                        1.7             3.0             3.7            5.2             3.4
Marginal Savingu Rate                                       0.3             0.4            -0.9            0.3             0.3
Import Elauticity                                           0.9             1.7            1.5             0.5             0.9
a/ Ac market price-.
b/  Ptnjecitd years at c--utaot prices.
f/ Central governmenct cO-.
A/ Ceoutaut 1980 price-.



-23-
ANNEX S
Page 5
IVORY COAST - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population:  8,240 (rid-1980, thousands)
GNP per capita- US$1,250 (1980)
Annual Growth Rates (7) at Constant 1980 Prices
Indicator                                (=illion  'S0  at                         Actual                                 Preliminary                                   Pro-j-tod
currnot prices)          ----------------------------- ------             --------------------_--              --_______      ------     ------------
1980              1975        1976        1977         1978        1979        1980        1981         1982        1983        1984        1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchaodi-e Expunto                               3037               10.7        -6.3       -26.3        22.7         -0.8        23.5         1.2          3.7         9.5        12.5        11.4
Primary                                        2508                9.4        -4.2        -28.0        24.2        -4.6        21.8          1.1         3.4         9.4        12.0         10.8
Manufactunos                                     529              34.4        -39.1        15.9        13.3        25.0         31.8         2.0         6.0        13.0         16.0        16.0
Petroleum                                         -                -            -           -           -           -                         -           -        443.5        117.6        50.8
M-rnhandis- Imports                               3045                0.3        23.1        41.1        27.8        -3.7          5.9        -7.0        -1.8         5.6          7.4         7.1
Food                                            393              -19.1        18.3         77.3        21.1         0.5         9.2          2.5         3.0         4.7         6.4         6.2
Petroleum                                       445              - 6.9         37.7        11.1         1.9        45.9        32.4       -64.0       -100.0
Machiiery and Equipment                         1552              10.9         19.5        67.4        41.1       -16.0          5.1         4.2         4.1         3.9         6.9          5.8
Others                                          655              -17.3         22.4        27.5        25.0         3.0        -1.5          1.6         4.2         7.4         8.0          8.4
PRICES
Export Prito Index  (1979  : 100)                   98               51.4        67.5       104.5        91.8       100.0         98.0        87.3        93.3       104.3       116.6        129.0
Inpect  Price Iudex (1979 * 100)                   116              70.9         77.2        86.9        90.1       100.0        116.0       124.4       133.5       144.2       155.0        156.0
Ter-ss of Trade Index (1979 - 100)                  85               72.5        87.4       120.3       101.9        100.0        84.5        70.2        69.9        72.3         75.4        78.0
Composition of Merohandise Trade (%i)                                       Avnruge Annual I snsatre (-t)
(at turrent prioes)                                                  (an constant 1980 prices)
1965    1970    1975      1980    1985    1990              1965-1970      1970-1975       1975-1980      1980-1985       1905-1990
Exports                                              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                   6.6             7.9             2.4            7.9             7.8
Primary                                             93.0    92.0    91.6    82.6    60.0    40.1                   5.7             6.6            1.6             7.6            6.4
Mlanufacuturs                                        7.0      0.0      8.4    17.4    14.2    17.7                15.2            16.1           12.1            10.1           16.0
Petroletm                                             -        _                 -     25.8    42.2
Imponts                                              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                   9.0             7.2           -0.7             2.6            6.5
Food                                                10.0    11.0    12.0    12.9    14.6    13.9                   7.4             0.5            8.2             4.8            5.6
Petrolet                                             9.0      9.0    14.0    14.6         -       -                7.5            10.7            0.7
M  chinery and Equipmnt                             30.0    20 2      20.0    32.1    56.8    31.7                 6.5             5.3           -6.8             4 9            2 7
Others                                              51.0    54.0    46.0    40.4    48.6    54.4                  10.8            -0.1            0.6             6.1            9.4
Share of Toade tsth                             Share of Trade with                                        Share Trade with
Todostrial Cosountin  (:)                       Developing Cou-tries (T)                            Capital Surplus 0il Exportors (7)
1965    1970    1975                                                      1979 1965    1970    1975    1979  7.
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                               82.4    86.9    70.0    81.4                    13.0    11.1    24.2    11.3                              0.6      0.2      0.0      2.7
Prim  ry                            84.2    89.9    75.9         -                  11.0      7.9    18.2        -                            0.6      0.2      0.0      -
Manufac-tu.es                       50.3    38.2    26.5         -                  49.0    60.7    68.1         -                            0.0      0.0     0.0        -
Imports                               84.7    84.0    71.8    81.3                    14.1    14.3    21.4        6.5                           0.0      0.1      1.3    11.7
E/ P-nlisiory actual.



-24-                                                                          P.S. 6
IVORY COLAST  -  AINE! or P              EXITN.363. CAPITAL A4D 1387
(sillia.. 0SS .t content prince)
Popu lti-on   8,240 (.id-1980,thaxand.)
GNP per  . pit: US$1,250 (1980)
A-ct- al  ----- ---       --            ---------- rVuoec,ted_--------------
Irdicatoc                                 1970       1975         1976        1977        1978           1979         1980           1981         1982        1983        1985         1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of Good- and S rvioee                       573       1507         1998        2768         3072          3330         3798           3489         3909        4750        7290        16331
of  hich:  Herhadie f..b.                         497       1239         1735        2391        2616           2719        3037            2739        3034         3714        5761       13013
topoJt  of god    d an                         646       1933        2188         2827        3440           3930        5375            5595        6129         7036        9352       17112
fofhih:        rhndiso f.o..b                     372       1012         1161        1562        2045           2203        3046            3037        3201         3653        4830        8934
Net Tranafern                                        34          42         -59        -331         -417          -529           33             38           44          50          67          134
Current Account Bal.noc                             -38       -304         -249        -390        -783          -1149       -1344           -2068       -2176        -2235       -1996        -697
Private Direct Inve-rnt                              31          81          37           3           55           119           62            269          371         408         670         249
MLT Lo.so  (opt                                      50         249         277         725          976           625          404            923         1418        1651        1462         1014
Official                                           34          75          65         158         730            648          64             334         978         1306        1287        1014
Private                                            15        174          213         367         169            -23         340             589         440          343         173        -0.1
Other Capita1                                        -4         -39         -35        -256           45           300         235             338          261         251          19         225
Change in rserve-   (iDcrease -)                    -39         93          -30         -82         -234           105         843             538          126         -75        -155        -841
Incnroationxl R ..rr.r                               -           -           -           -            -             -         -866           -1404       -L530        -1455       -1300         -459
of which: Gold
Oenrrvr-   an  -onthe inporte                        -           -           -           -            -             -         -19             -1.7        -1.3         -0.8         0.2         1.5
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Groan Jiaboreemtnte 8/
Official Grerte                                    -          -            -           _           20             25         30               35          39           42          51          83
Corre.ainnel Loa.                                  32         34           44          44          64             27         41               71          64           42           7        0.08
DAC                                              24         23          37           24          30             15         27               25          24           18           3          -
Opic
IDh                                              -           1           2            4           1             -          -                 2           3           3            2        0.08
Other                                             8          9            6          17          33             12         14               44          37          21            2          -
No.-o.reae.io..l Loan.                             45        291          342         865         932            978        888             1401        1940        2244         2636        3503
Official Exporta Credite                          6         20          21           89          28            101         26              186         821        1179         1500        2193
LBSD                                              3         25          14          37           58            51          40               64          77          89          109         144
Other Maltilaite-l                                1         15            7          11          32             28         18               92         119         110            4          -
Private                                          34        231         299          727         815           798         805            1059          923         866        1023         1164
Eiternal Debt
Debt Oxtatonding and Diabhce-d                    256        916        1167         1962        2667           3502       4062             4985        6403        8055       11203        17008
Official                                        144        370         433         612         1374          2083        I111             1449        2427        3233        6446        10439
rivate                                        4112       535          734        1331         1093          1419       2947             3536         3976        4321        4756        15570
Undiehonsed Debt                                  168        560         974         1666        1626           1548       1828             2727        3101        3376         3280        5341
Debt Sentio
Total Service PaYICeta                             39        132         175          288         415           568         855              928        1044        1201         1995        3741
Inte_eet                                         12         56          66         104          171           250         329             379          418         567         814         1251
Paymnent  xc % Export.                            6.7        8.8         8.8         10.4          14             17         23               27          27          25           27          23
Avrcxfe Interfet Rate on Ne.  Loane (7)             5 9        8 0          7.5         7 7         8.6           891         8 5              8.2         8 2          8.2        802          8.1
Official                                          4.9        7.3         6.9          6.6          -              -          _                _           _           _            _
Private                                           7.5        8.5         7.6          8.1                 -
Av-r-ge Matority of  Vo. L.nan  (yeace)            18.5       12.6         10.6        11.2          9.8          11.5        8.0             10.7        11.1         11.1        10.5        11.5
Official                                         22.5       1800        16.9         18.7          -              -          -                _           _            -
Priv-tr                                          12.0        8.7         9.0          9.1          -              -          -                -           -            _
A. 2 of Debt Outstanding
at End of M.rt Racrat
YeTr  (1979)
Matixity Str-rt-ca of Debt Oxtetarding
Principal doe within 5 peace                                                                                51 8
Principal don within 10 year-                                                                               8076
Interest Stroctore of Debt Oxtetanding
Internet doe within five y.rn-                                                                              26.6
a  ibOtehr-ent data for 19708r   niae.
Want Africa Region
KarcO 1982



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits 1/
(As of March 31, 1982)
US$ Millions
Loan or      Fiscal                                         (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower            Purpose           Bank     IDA      Undisbursed
One           Credit Fully Disbursed                                7.5
Eighteen      Loans  Fully Disbursed                     162.77
981-IVC       1974   Ivory Coast        Telecom-          17.4                   7.2
munications
1069-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Cocoa II          20.0                  2.9
1077-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Cotton            31.0                  3.9
1124-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Tourism            9.7                  2.6
1161-IVC      1976   Ivory Coast        Highways V        43.0                  3.3
1162-IVC      1976   CCI                DFC                5.6                  1.5
1177-IVC      1976   BIDI               DFC                8.0                  2.3
1347-IVC      1977   Ivory Coast        Urban Dev.       30.0                   7.6
1348-T-IVC   1977   Ivory Coast         Urban Dev.        14.0                  3.6
1484-IVC      1978   Ivory Coast        Water Supply    16.0                    2.4
1501-IVC      1978   Ivory Coast        Feeder Roads    29.0                    8.2
1575-IVC      1978   Ivory Coast        Rubber II        20.0                   3.2
1577-IVC      1978   Ivory Coast        Abidjan
Sewerage II      33.0                  24.8
1633-IVC      1979   Ivory Coast        Rubber III         7.6                  2.8
1663-IVC      1979   Ivory Coast        CCI-Artisans    12.6                   10.3
1698-IVC      1979   Ivory Coast        Tourism II        14.2                 11.2
1735-IVC      1980   Ivory Coast        Forestry          18.0                 11.8
1777-IVC      1980   Ivory Coast        Education III   24.0                   22.6
1827-IVC      1980   Ivory Coast        Rural Dev.         9.4                  8.9
1896-IVC      1981   EECI               Power            33.0                  31.4
1914-IVC      1981   Ivory Coast        Highway Sector 100.0                   98.7
2048-IVC 1/  1982   Ivory Coast         Urban Dev. II   51.0                   51.0
2058-IVC      1982   Ivory Coast        Structural       150.0                101.5
Adjust.
2059-IVC      1982   Ivory Coast        Tech. Asst.       16.0                 15.8
TOTAL                                         875.3      7.5       435.5
of which has been repaid                42.7       -
TOTAL now outstanding                         832.6      7.5
Amount sold                           5.1
of which has been repaid        5.1       0.0       -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                832.6      7.5
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                             435.5      0.0       435.5
1/   not yet effective.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1982)
US$'000
Type of
Year     Obligator                   Business         Loan      Equity       Total
1965     Banque Ivoirienne           Industrial         -        204.0       204.0
de Developpement         Development
Industriel               Bank
1978     do.                         do.               -         219.5       219.5
1977     Ets R. Gonfreville, S.A.  Textiles                      884.7       884.7
1980     Societe Ivoirienne          Fertilizers  5,120.0    1,272.0    6,392.0
d'Engrais
1980     MSO                         Flour Mill   2,900.0        406.7    3,306.7
Total gross commitments                   8,020.0    2,986.9   11,006.9
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid                                   -         -          -
Total commitments now
held by IFC                            18,020.0    2,986.9   11,006.9



_27 _
ANNEX II
Page 3
C. Projects in Execution -
Ln. No. 981             Telecommunications Project:  US$25 million Loan of
May 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project has experienced a four-year slippage due initially to delays in
appointing engineering consultants and subsequently to management and organi-
zational deficiencies. After the Government awarded the contract for switching
equipment to other than the lowest evaluated bidder, the amount earmarked
under the loan to finance the equipment (US$7.6 million, including contin-
gencies) was cancelled as of March 31, 1977 (R77-128). A reorganization of
the Postal and Telecommunications Office took place in the Fall of 1981,
together with the appointment of competent managers. This important develop-
ment is expected to result in completion of the project by mid-1983. The
Closing Date of the loan has been amended accordingly.
Ln. No. 1069            Second Cocoa Project:  US$20 million Loan of January 10,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 30, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Upon receipt and payment of the last disbursement application, to be sent to the
Bank momentarily, the outstanding amount of the loan will be cancelled and the
loan closed.
Ln. No. 1077            Cotton Areas Rural Development Project:  US$31 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 4,
1975, Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
The project has been satisfactorily completed. Following processing of final
disbursement requests, the outstanding amount of the loan will be cancelled and
the loan closed.
Ln. No. 1124            Tourism Development Project:  US$9.7 million Loan of
June 11, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily. Four hotels are opened and the
fifth is under construction. The loan has been fully committed.
/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the progress
of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems and
actions being taken to remedy them. They should be read with the under-
standing that they do not present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



_ 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Ln. No. 1161             Fifth Highway Project:  US$43 million Loan of September 5,
1975; Effectiveness Date: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project has been satisfactorily completed. Upon receipt and payment of last
disbursement application, to be forwarded to the Bank momentarily, the out-
standing amount of the loan will be cancelled and the loan closed.
Ln. No. 1162             Small-Scale Enterprises Project:  US$5.6 million Loan of
September 5, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Cancelling by CCI of a number of previously approved sub-projects has reduced
commitments on the line of credit from 100% to 91%. Disbursements stand at
73%. Given the availability of funds under the second line of credit (Ln. No.
1663-IVC), the uncommitted balance of this loan is being cancelled.
Ln. No. 1177             BIDI DFC Project:  US$8 million Loan of December 12,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 17, 1976; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1984.
The availability of less costly funds to BIDI in the past slowed down the
commitment of this line of credit. As the situation has changed during the
last year, however, the loan has now been fully committed.
Ln. No. 1347             Urban Development Project:  US$44 million.  Loans
and 1348-T               (US$30.0 million and US$14 million on Bank and Third
Window terms respectively) of December 15, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: March 9, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983.
The execution of the project is progressing satisfactorily. The transport,
trunk sewer, community facilities, technical assistance, and low-cost housing
components are completed. The upgrading component which suffered delays
because of administrative and legal procedures is now proceeding well and
would be completed by the end of 1982.
Ln. No. 1484             Secondary Centers Water Supply Project:  US$16 million
Loan of September 9, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 9,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1982.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily on schedule.
Ln. No. 1501             Feeder Roads and Highway Maintenance Project:  US$29
million Loan of December 22, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
October 17, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Overall work progress is slower than anticipated, particularly as it relates to
works being carried out by the local contractor. Actions being taken by RMWA
are expected to speed up the implementation of the project which otherwise is
proceeding satisfactorily.



-29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Ln. No. 1575            Second Grand Bereby Rubber Project:  US$20 million
Loan of June 9, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 15,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Because of the establishment of a separate entity to manage the Grand Bereby
rubber plantations (SO.G.B.), the structure of the legal documents for this
project had to be amended. Execution of the project, nevertheless, proceeded
satisfactorily under Bank staff supervision. On July 17, 1980, the new agree-
ments to substitute for the original ones were submitted for approval to the
Executive Directors (R80-213) and signed on August 6, 1980. They became effec-
tive on September 15, 1980, and US$16.8 million have been disbursed to date.
Ln. No. 1577            Second Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:  US$33
million Loan of June 9, 1978: Effectiveness Date:
September 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily, although house connections to
the sewerage system are progressing at a slower pace than anticipated. Remedial
action in this respect is being discussed with Government.
Ln. No. 1633            SAPH Rubber Project:  US$7.6 million Loan of November 30,
1978; Effectiveness Date: October 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Smallholder rubber plantings
are ahead of schedule, although estate development is lagging, due to start-up
delays.
Ln. No. 1663            Artisans, Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises Project:
US$12.6 million Loan of June 15, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: November 28, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily, although commitments and dis-
bursements are about six months behind schedule because of a slackening in demand
resulting from the overall lower investment activity in the country.
Ln. No. 1698            Second Tourism Development Project:  US$14.2 million;
Loan of June 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: May 9, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Three large hotels are under
construction and nine small hotel sub-projects have been approved. Over 60%
of the loan amount has been committed.
Ln. No. 1735            Forestry Project:  US$18 million Loan of August 2, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: January 14, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The 1980 plantation program
covering 4,000 ha was executed and plantations have been well maintained.
Subsequent plantations have been on schedule. All project provided staff have
now taken up their appointments.



_ 30 _
ANNEX II
Page 6
Ln. No. 1777             Third Education Project:  US$24 million Loan of
December 28, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
After initial delays of about one year due to the technical weakness of some
consultant architects and slowness in awarding civil works contracts, project
implementation is improving and most components are expected to be successfully
implemented. A sharp increase in disbursements is expected now that civil
works have started. The training of local staff and the preparation of equip-
ment procurement are well underway.
Ln. No. 1827             North-East Savannah Rural Development Project:  US$9.4
million Loan of May 27, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 22, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
Project execution began well, but has not been progressing as smoothly during
the past year, owing to the difficulties involved in coordinating the various
actions called for by a number of institutions. The applied research program,
however, is proceeding satisfactorily and project progress is being closely
monitored.
Ln. No. 1896             First Power Project:  US$33 million Loan of September 11,
1980; Effectiveness Date: March 27, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The studies under the project have been carried out on schedule. Physical
works, however, are delayed for about one year, due to the much longer than expected
time required for selection by CIDA and EECI of engineering consultants for the
project (including Bank financed components) and subsequent negotiations with
the consultants.
Ln. No. 1914             Highway Sector Project:  US$100.0 million Loan of
March 19, 1981; Effectiveness Date: July 31, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily, and the dialogue on sector policies
and issues is proving fruitful. Disbursements, however, during the first nine months
of implementation are slower than projected at the time of appraisal, but are now
expected to pick up considerably.
Ln. No. 2048 1/          Second Urban Development Project:  US$51.0 million Loan
of October 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Delays in finalizing the
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government of the Ivory Coast and SOTRA are
delaying the effectiveness of this loan. Nonetheless, invitation for tenders and
selection of consultants procedures are being carried out on schedule.
'/ Not yet effective.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No. 2058            Structural Adjustment I:  US$150 million Loan of
December 3, 1981; Effectiveness Date: December
29, 1981; Closing Date: December 1. 1982.
Disbursements as of March 31, 1982, amounted to $48.5 million and it is now
expected that the first tranche of the loan ($100 million) will be disbursed
by July 1982. Initial steps of the adjustment program are being implemented,
some with minor delays. The "Committee of financial coordination and invest-
ment control" established under the SAL program is working well. The Public
Enterprise Sector Study has been completed, discussed with Government and an
immediate action program has been agreed. Work on the Agricultural Prices
and Subsidies Study is proceeding and the final report is now expected at
the end of June 1982. Preliminary studies of CIDT and Palmindustrie are
underway and TOR for the study of SATMACI are being discussed with Government.
The 1982 investment program was reviewed by the Bank in February and found
to be broadly satisfactory. A mission to review in detail fulfillment of
conditions of release of the second tranche is scheduled for May/June 1982.
Loan No. 2059            Technical Assistance Project:  US$16.0 million
Loan of December 3, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
December 29, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
The project is being executed satisfactorily. Detailed T.O.R. for most key
positions have been drawn up. Advertisments in January for the 8 long term
advisers in the Ministry of Agriculture attracted a strong response and
selection is now underway. Short term advisers have visited the Ivory Coast
to assist Government in preparing a master plan for agricultural research.
Detailed task descriptions have been agreed for industrial sector advisers.
Loan No. 2130            Second Water Supply Project:  US$43.0 million
Closing Date:  March 31, 1988
1/ Loan not yet signed.



- 32 -                        ANNEX III
IVORY COAST
CENTER-WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Identification                               February 1979
(b) Agreement with Government on
project concept                                    November 1980
(c)  Appraisal                                            May 1981
(d)  Completion of negotiations                           January 1982
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness                        September 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   The conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) Effectiveness of CCCE financing amounting to a total of
US$15.0 million (para. 44)
(b) Recruitment of Project Manager and of Technical Director
for the project (para. 46)
(c) Signature of agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, between
Government and SATMACI and Government and BNDA defining in
detail SATMACI's and BNDA's tasks and responsibilities under
the project, (para. 46)
(d) The establishment by Government of a project account and of
a revolving fund, with a separate account for this purpose,
into which Government shall have deposited an initial amount
of CFAF 225 million (para. 46)
2.   During negotiations, the following principal assurances were
obtained:
(a) Government would make sufficient funds available to BNDA
to finance expected increased credit needs of farmers for
input purchases (para. 45)
(b) Government would provide SATMACI's Commercial Division
with CFAF 250 million of working capital by June 30,
1982 (para. 36)
(c) Government would carry out by October 31, 1982, an action
program, acceptable to the Bank, for rice milling and distribu-
tion in the project area (para. 50)



W -:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f~L ,,Q   i',  ''' a i - ie;%
<     t       +ffi\i qox*2 _ g  \  o     , r ,   S   ot 0|  i    t; r < w 6 0  ; 3"NN'm Al a
. Q   v                   -jj                                       ;  < X  i  >tii  ti  
0~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R. i3  FSr~
s  ;>  r > 4>X o l-5  kA 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;     rJ  _s- 
; 2 E ] . t u S S E L S * W I St * t d W s s > y E t = = X s r ! ; R j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-R






IBRD 16022
6'                                                                                                  SEPTEMBER 1981
N X >-.. oba                         (oo \IVORY  COAST
/g                                        sollFIto               8             1 CENTER WEST AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
itDonor+4    oSiil>7                                                                                           Project boundary                                  Main roads
Proiect headquarters                             Other roads
i..iZ] Oa   Test zones                                     Rivers
Os..                                              /   =U?                                          *     IDESSA research substation                f3     Departments
0tnia aroebZ   eb   NrDD(ilt 2.                           vZiEnD5                      0     Promect experimental sites                 @      Subprefectures
tg       go-sID     Vavoa   D                          d      Training center                      *            Department boundaries
-^  Vaa,,s,jas             Ud/a            -       5                            9       Rice mill                                       Subprefectures boundaries
OKODIbII   F,l*{,   D.d,.fI.  g   < )                              ti@    Coffee hulling factory
< DleFakas5sbai,  rO                         A                                                         = =  KILOMETERS 0  1 0 2  0 30 40 50    60            70      80    90      100
QX   ~         0  -l                     -w                                                                     _    _    _    _    _    _     _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _ ' ZS     t  It
________   _-                 ~         ~                 L .Nat {lid'S;                  RS          MILES  0           10         20          30          40          50          0
7                                  B                                                                                   .....  8Tae&aDifl flsFfIa
B.. _i     Na abo6   a.                                                                /S \-,fl. 
- .ObDALOA                                                                   .                                              t
G.1ai.aba Ni0i$    Sita.           a'a          *ai
) Guww<> g w5 9b..              Gb.tit.nbJ%      Esloron     .fO?D;9OEI
^; ~ ~       ~      ~      Graa  inW,     n-        :_i,B k.nt*                                                                '2 -F               Tsrou
D-sa i         5 di K. .  goo    O                  \sbtsb'|'                                  
o         z       (/x                        Is--9K,ait   osaaabeO  -  oN'asaa0^>                         Sat,biZra -Ooi   -!kEb                                                                        00ttibM
GMst                  Ja~~~~~~~~N...".a                                                                                                            013-b.usAk -
iA                 -      0   2       z             Lsobo    -                       -b  -   -.  9                   0ltS&t5 -                                  ha s
K .,                       ":::  - -      oi oe4%./1   c        985661  T.2Dd..                        -   
Badadi-a               Bib'-            Is.Rs.         -     -      a 
,,7         Noal  .   -. TDgtSaa            E         S..6Oua        ahia     Bma{D Z..  1    1ada  -i  o 
t.~h%a       ..A 4  G, b'16 a0       K-ko   T5~                    u.a.tFt
Z.,,.ta  *     ..-..,aa.raa5s
f-b   *EAItX)~~~GINE
--  takrabsstia  G,.a.sm    Jtt.4t0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOR    COSTGo
.br6 ~        -a~,          ~       -  ti,bs 
/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~EI a
G051   Zatis.        aiaas',
a  OaRs                                      $1                        t  --2;4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~



