Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10370-MLI Type: (SAR)
HALL, J.  / X34999 / J9 135/ AF5AG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALI
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MAY 1, 1992
Africa Region
Sahelian Department
Agriculture Department
lbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit i CFA Franc (CFAF)
USS 1.00 - CFAF 272
WEIGHTS i MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
Janubry 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AV        Village Association
(Association VillagsoiLe)
AVV       Extension Agent
(Anim1teur-VulguLrissteur V&llageois)
CCA-ONG  Non Government Organization Action Coordinating Comnittee
(Comite de Coordination des Actions des Organisations non
Gouvernementales)
CILSS    Sahelian Inter-State Comnittee of Drought Control
(Comite Inter-Etat de Lutte Contre la Secheresse dans Is Sahel)
CCCE      French Central Economic Cooperation Fund
(Caikes Centrals de Cooperation Economique)
cIMU      Central Implementing and Monitoring Unit
(Unit# de Mise en Oeuvre et de Suivi)
CLD       Local Development Committee
(Comitl Local de Developpement)
CHDT     Malian Cotton Company
(Compagnie Malianne pour le Developpement du Textile)
CRD       Regional Development Coanittes
(Comitd Regional de Ddveloppement)
DAF       Administrative and Financial Department of MAZE
(Direction Administrative et Financiore du MAZE)
DNA       National Directorate of Agriculture
(Direction Nationale de l Agriculture)
DNACOP   National Directorate of Cooperatives
(Direction Nationale de 1 Action CoopErative)
DNE       National Directorate of Livestock Production
(Direction Nationale de 1 Elevage)
DNEF      National Directorate of Water and Forestry
(Direction Nationale des Eaux et Forets)
DNGR      National Directorate of Rural Infrastructure
(Direction Nationale du Genie Rural)
EIS       Environmental Information System
(Systeme dlInformation our I'Environnement)
ESHAP    Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
(Programme de Gestion du Secteur Energdtique)
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization
(Organisation des Nations Unies pour 1'Agriculture at
1 Alimentation)
GIS       Geographic Information System
(Syeteme dlInformation Gdographique)
GTV       Village Land Management
(Gestion du Terroir Villageosa)
GTZ       German Technical Cooperation
(Cooperation Technique Allemande)
IDA       International Development Agency
(Agence du Developpement International)
IER       Rural Economy Institute
(Institut d Economie Rurale)
INSAN     Sahelian Institute (CILSS)
(Institut du Sahel (CILSS))
MAEE      Ministry of Agriculture. Livestock and Environment
(MinistEre de l'Agriculture. lElevage et 1PEnvironnement)
NRM       Natural Resource Management
(Gestion des Resources Naturelles)
OAPF      Forestry Management Operation
(Operation d'Amdnagament et Production Foreastiere)
OPNBB    BaoulE National Park Authority
(Office du Parc National de la ioucle du Uaould)
PDRH      Mopti Area Development Project
(Projet de Dveloppement de la Region de Mopti)
PNCC      Project National Coordinating Comnittee
(ComitE National de Coordination)
PNLCD    National Program of Desertification Control
(Programse National de Lutte Contre le Desertification)
TST       Technical Support Teams
(Equip. d'Appui Technique)
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
(Programme de Diveloppement des Nations Unies)
UNESCO   United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
(Organisation des Nations Unies pour la Culture)
UNSO      United Nations Sudanno Sahelian Office
(Organisation dea Nations Unies pour 1. Sahel Occidental)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- iii-t
REPUBLIC OF MALI
NATURAL RESOtRCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS ...................................i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY.................................................. vi
1.    BACKGROUNDs    . *.o.*o9ooe     .os.9oa9ooo#a9*                                               .1
S. Introduction c.m....................................................l
B. The Malian Economy ..............
C. The Agricultural Sector ............................
D. Natural Resource Management .......... t ...3
E. Government Objectives and Strategy for Natural Resource Management.... 5
F. IDA Strategy ...............................6
0. ExperiencewithPastLending ......................................... 7
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission carried out in Mali
from November 18 to December 14, 1991. The mission included World Bank staff:
J. Hall (Mission leader), Mo. C. Dejou (Agro-economist), J. Lewis (Ecologist),
W. Lusigi (Environmentalist), Q. Doan (Extension), GTZ staffs C. Ehrich (Team
leader), Ms. V. Koite (Training), E. Dudeck (Land planner), G. Daraspe
(Monitoring and evaluation); Malian Counterpartst S. Bouare (Team leader), M.
Diarra (Institutions), Y. Berthe (Environment), D. Sylla (Training), Ag Hamaty
(Forestry), Ms. M. Diarra (WID) and Consultants from UNSO:   J. Bonnemayer
(Environmental information); UNDP: P. Dejace (Bio diversity); and IDA: D. Wall
(Adult Training), J. Sabet (Technologies), and Ms. N. Lansry (Gender issue). The
mission was accompanied by donor representativest   H. Hertel (G72) and V.
Papazian (CCCE). Peer reviewers are Messrs F. Falloux (AFTEN), S. Rietberger
(APTAG) and J. Silverman (AFTIM). Ms. J. Masterson was responsible for cost,
financing, disbursement and procurement aspects and supervised the COSTAB input
which was processed by Mrs. Guillemette Rohan-Schieferstein and Ms. Marie-Claire
Tsang. Ms. K. Marshall and S. Darghouth are the Department Director and the
Managing Division Chief respectively for the operations.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iv -
Table of Contents (continued)
Pages
II.   PROJECT BACKGROUNG              ................10
A. Institutional Set-up ............... ,,, 1
B. Ongoing Natural Resource Mar.ag8 wnt Projects .........ll
C. The Community Natural Ressource Management Approach..13
D. Status of Projact Preparation ...         .....14
III.  THE PROJECT..,...... ,............16
A.  Rationale and Objectives............. .. ... .. .......     . . .16
B.  Summary Description .................. . * * **  - **.16
C. Detailed Features 1      7......     ................. 17
1.  Community Resource Management ..................... 17
2.  Baoule National Park and Biosphere Reserve ........19
3.  Institutional Support for Government Services .....19
4.  Skills Development and Public Awareness ...........21
5.  Technical Assistance and Research...........o.s.21
F.  Procurement  ....................................... 24
G.  Disbursements .......................................28
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ........... .. .. . .... .......     .30
A.  Project Organization ...............  ......... . ,   .     30
B.  Implementation of Project Components ................32
C.  Coordination with Other Projects and Programs.......37
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation .......................39
E.  Financial Management, Accounting, and Audits ........40
F.  Supervision and Mid-term Review .....................42
G. Environmental Impact           ................. . 43
V.    PROJECT BENEFITS. RISKS. AND SUSTAINABILITY ............. 45
A.      Benefits ............................................ 45
B.  Ri skees. . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . * . * . . . . 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 .  . . . . . . . . . 0 * . . 46
C.  Project Sustainability .............................. 47
V.    AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS    ....              48
ANNEXES
1.  Natural Resource Management
2.  List of Pilot Operations
3.  Menu of Appropriate Technologies
4.  Project Area
5.  Project Cost Tables
- Table 1s Summary Accounts Cost Summary
- Table 2: Project Cost Summary
- Table 3S Summary Accounts by Project Component
- Table 4: Summary Accounts by Year
6.  Schedule of Disbursement.
7.  Project Implementation Schedule
8.  Project Supervisiont Schedule
9.  Project Key Indicators
10.  Organisation Chart



11. Proposed Technical Assistance
12. Content of the Project Implementation Volume
MU
IDED No. 23503  I4aliP  Sois and Rainfall
IBID No. 23502 The Project Area



- vi -
MALI
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEIENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                       Republic of Mali
Beneficiaries             s    Farmers and herders (approximately 95,000
persons in 150 villages located in 3 regions of
Mali
Amount                    :    SDR 15.0 million (US$20.4 million)
Terms                     :    Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project Descri2tion       :    The Project is the first five-year timeslice of
a long-term national program to provide the
necessary support to village communities to
enable them to establish, implement, and monitor
village management plans covering the natural
resources in their communities. The main
components of the Project are: (a) village-
level investments to stop the degradation of
soil, water, and natural vegetation and to
establish infrastructure, and productive
facilities with immediate, direct impact on the
communities' quality of life, in about 150
villages within three of Mali's eight
administrative regions; (b) modification of the
boundaries of the Baoule National Park and
implementation of a long-term management plan;
(c) support to Government services at regional
and local levels to assist villagers to set up,
implement, and monitor community natural
resource management plans; (d) support to the
newly created Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation Department within the Ministry of
Agriculture, Livestock and Environment, in
establishing an environmental information
system; (e) implementation of a training and
public awareness program; and (f) technical
assistance, consultant services, applied
research and technical studies.
Economic Rate of Return  a    Not applicable
Benefits and Risks             The Project will help improve the quality of
life of about 95,000 rural people living in the
project area by (a) improving agriculture,



- vii -
forestry, and livestock production performance;
(b) strengthening local management capabilities
and empowering villagers to manage their own
development; and (c) restoring ecological
stability and introducing a sustainable land-use
system which would seek to balance production
against resource consumption. Environment and
resource management experiences would be
available for extension to other parts of Mali
not covered by the Project. Mali's capacity to
improve the use of natural resources and to
monitor changes over the short and long-term
would be strengthened. The preservation of
Mali's biodiversity for future generations would
be tided through the sound management of the
Baoule National Park with the participation of
local population. The Project would lay an
excellent foundation for the development of a
National Environmental Action Plan for Mali.
RISKS:                         The risks are:  (a) a possible falloff in the
degree of political commitment shown by the
Government; (b) insufficient understanding and
poor implementation of the community natural
resource management approach, since it requires
skills very different from those involved in
conventional top-down practices; and (c)
insufficient authority of the Central
Implementation and Monitoring Unit, which might
undermine its efforts to build up a national
capacity to coordinate natural resource
management activities. To minimize these risks,
the following actions will be taken: (a)
together with other donors, IDA will encourage
reforms likely to contribute to effective
adm:nistrative aecentralization; (b) project
implementation will be supported by well
focussed supervision; and (c) future
developments aiming at addressing environmental
issues comprehensively will be closely monitored
and encouraged.



- viii -
Estimated Costs and Financins Plan
Estimated Costs !/               Local         Foreiat _  Total
Village Level Investments                6.1               9.5         16.6
Baoul* National Park                     0.8               1.1         1.9
Field Technical Support                  2.2               0.8         3.0
Central Implementation and
Monitoring Unit                          0.6               0.2         0.7
Skills Development and Public
Awarones.                                2.0                -          2.0
TA, Research and Studies                 0.6               2.8         2.9
National Environmental Monitoring
Unit                                     0.2                0.6        0.7
Refinancing of PPF                       0.2                 0          0.2
Total Base Costs                        12.6              14.4         27.0
Physical Contingencies
Pric- Contingencies                      0.8               1.8         2.1
Total Project Costs                      1.2               1.8         3.0
146        I     17-.         32.1
I/ Not of identifiable taxes and duties
(US$  m)    _____
Financing Plan-           Local       Foreign        Total
Beneficiaries                    4.0            -            4.0
IDA                              5.4           15.0         20.4
Norway                           3.3           1.7           5.0
Germany                          1.0           0.2           1.2
UNDP                              0.9           0.6          1.6
TOTAL                            ii7§          17 6-1
(USS m)
IDA    FISCAL   YEAR
Estimated IDA Disbursements b/        99 94             96        98       97      98
Annual                                   0.6  |  8.1       4 4    |  6.5   | 8.3  | 1.6  | 0.4
Cumulative                               0.6      8.7      8.8      15.1    18.4   20.0   20.4
hi Projections are identical to the standard disbursement profile for agriculture projects in
Mail with the exception of FY96 where one semester is compr-ssed and the percentage becomes
62% instead of 54%.



REPUBLIC OF MALI
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECS
STAFF APPRAUISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01        The proposed project would start a process under which the current
trend of natural resource degradation, which is threatening the livelihood of
Mali's rural and urban populations, would be progressively slowed, stopped,
and reversed. This would be achieved through the design and implementation,
by village communities, of their own community-based Natural Resource
Management (NRM) Plans. These NRM plans would be designed to ensure the
sustainable use of land, water, natural vegetation and wildlife resources
through an innovative participatory and inter-sectoral approach (para. 2.13).
Similar approaches have already been tested and developed in many pilot
operations in Mali (para. 2.05) &nd in other Sahelian countries. The Project
would not address other environmental protection issues such as urban growth
and pollution, since these would be dealt with by a National Environmental
Action Plan to be implsaiented in the future, based partially upon the results
of the proposed project (para. 1.16).
3. The Malian Economy
1.02        With a per capita income of US$270 (1990), Mali is one of the
world's poorest countries. A landlocked country covering 1,241,000 km', Mali
had a population of 8.5 million in 1990 and an annual population growth rate
of 2.5 percent. Eighty percent of the population lives in rural areas;
population density ranges from 22 inhabitants per km2 in Segou to 1 inhabitant
per km2 in the Tombouctou and Gao regions. A large area in the south (140,000
km2) previously affected by onchocerciasis (river blindness) has been
partially freed of the disease by a campaign launched in 1974, and is now
being intensively developed fe: cotton production. Obstacles to economic
development include the meager resource base, the poor infrastructure, and a
highly variable climate. The Malian economy is extremely dependent upon
agriculture and, in particular, on cotton and cereals. Growth in the
agricultural sector is constrained by low rainfall, fragile soils, and the low
productivity of traditional technologies. A literacy rate of only 17 percent
and one of the world's lowest primary school enrollment rates are additional
obstacles to long-term development.
1.03        The Malian Government has pursued adjustment and stabilization
efforts since 1982, and the country has shown strong adjustment performance
over the past four years. In mid-1988, it started implementing a medium-term
adjustment program as defined in a first Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for
1988-90. A second PFP for the 1990-92 period was approved in early 1990.



- 2 -
After a temporary disruption of economic activity in the wake of the March
1991 events, the transition Government quickly agreed with the Bank and the
IMF on a revised macroeconomic framework for 1991, which was implemented
satisfactorily. A third PFP is currently being considered. Structural
measures implemented since 1988 have included the price liberalization for all
products except petroleum, the easing of regulatory procedures, the abolition
of quantitative trade restrictions, and tax reform. A public enterprise
sector adjustment program has been implemented. Three adjustment operations
are currently in progress: Education, Structural Adjustment, and Agriculture.
In the agricultural sector, the Government's reform program focuses on (a)
restructuring the cotton subsector and implementing a performance contract
between the Government and CMDT, the national cotton company: (b) liberalizing
the cereals subsector and implementing a performance contract between the
Government and OPAM, the cereals marketing agency; (c) selected institutional
reforms for the rural development agencies; and (d) natural resource
management and land tenure studies.
1.04        The policies implemented since 1988, combined with relatively
favorable weather, have spurred average real GDP growth of 3.4 percent per
annum. Macroeconomic performance was weaker in 1991 as a result of poorer
weather and the social unrest in early 1991. Fiscal management has improved
greatly in recent years, with the overall Government budget deficit before
grants falling steadily from a peak of 15.3 percent of GDP in 1985 to 7.7
percent of GDP in 1990, although it rose again to 11.3 percent in 1991 due to
the aforementioned disruptions. Mali's external accounts have also improved
significantly since the mid-1980s: the balance of payments has recorded
surpluses since 1988 after more than a decade of consecutive deficits.
C. The Agricultural Sector
1.05         Mali's agroclimatic zones range from Saharan to Guinean (see Map
1). Climatic factors account for the extreme diversity of the country's
vegetation and agricultural potential. The northern Saharan zone covers about
50 percent of the country; it receives less than 150 mm of rainfall and
supplies less than 10 percent of the total grazing biomass. The Sahelian zone
covers about 20 percent of Malian territory and receives 200 - 600 mm of
rainfall; outside of the Niger Inner Delta, rainfed crop production here is
concentrated on coarse grains (i.e., sorghum and millet). The Sudanian
savannah covers 25 percent of the country and receives good rainfall (600-
1,200 mm), while the Sudano-Guinean zone (5 percent of total area) has the
highest agricultural potential as well as the highest population density.
1.06        Agriculture in Mali is primarily rainfed, although major
irrigation schemes exist for rice cultivation. Cereals, mostly sorghum/millet
and maize, are the most important food crops. They are grown by 90 percent of
farmers and contribute about 25 percent of GDP. Cereals are primarily
cultivated for home consumption; only about 20 percent of total production is
marketed. Rice is also a major consumption item, but mostly in urban areas.
It is grown in large-scale irrigation schemes (mainly the Office du Niger,
Operation Riz Mopti and Operation Riz Segou) and in lowland plantations
(particularly in the Mali-Sud Region). Cotton, the most important cash crop,
is also Mali's major export crop, representing 45 percent of foreign exchange
earnings. Livestock is the second most important agricultural export,
accounting for about 30 percent of total exports, but it is actually the



- 3 -
country's most important agricultural activity, occupying an important place
in all agricultural production systems. The Touareg and some Peul tribesmen
in the north of the country are pure pastoralists, deriving all of their
livelihood from herding. Farmers in the central and southern part of the
country use livestock (mainly oxen) for plowing and as sources of manure for
fertilizer. The animals produce milk, mainly for home consumption, and meat,
both for market and home consumption. Animals are used for transport in both
pastoral and sedentary productian systems. Livestock production in Mali is
basically a low-input/low-output system, primarily depending on extensive
grazing of natural pastures. There are only a few large-scale, intensive
commercial dairy and poultry farms, and these are located outside Bamako and
other urban centers.
1.07        The Malian economy is based to a considerable, but decl-  ig
extent on the primary sector, whose share of GDP dropped from 58 percent in
1981 to 49 percent in 1989. Since this falling-off was larger than the
decrease in the active population employed in agriculture, the result '-as been
a drop in agricultural income for the rural population as a whole. While
arable land totals 11.4 million ha, the area actually under cultivation in
1989 was 2.8 million ha. The recent increase in sorghum and millet production
(from 654,000 tons in 1980-81 to 1.9 million tons in 1988-89) appears to be
due, in addition to increases in cultivated area (from 1.4 million ha in 198n-
81 to 1.97 million ha in 1988-89), to the temporarily higher fertility of new
lands. Traditional transhumant grazing systems are encountering major
difficulties due to shrinking rangelands and competition with crops. This has
caused a drift of herds from the Sahelian to the Sudanian zone, the transfer
of stock ownership from herders to farmers and traders, and the progressive
collapse of traditional transhumant production systems.
D. Natural Resource Management
1.08        Degradation of Natural Resources.  The major constraints affecting
the management of soil, water, vegetation and biodiversity in Mali are: (a)
population growth, which has put unsustainable pressure on agricultural and
non-agricultural lands (forest, rangeland, bush fallow), overtaxed soil
fertility, polluted water supplies, and caused a loss of biodiversity; (b) the
overlap of traditional land tenure arrangements and of Government regulations
that have jeopardized time-tested traditional practices without replacing them
with viable modern alternatives; (c) a slow cattle market which has caused an
accumulation of unproductive animals; and (d) certain production practices,
such as slash-and-burn agriculture a-a herd expansion, which may have been
relevant in the past but have proven so be inefficient and highly destructive
of the resource base. It should be kept in mind, however, that overgrazing,
however extreme, is never as destructive as the cultivation of marginal land.
1.09        Over the past 30 years, rainfall in the entire Sahelian region,
including Mali, has declined considerably, resulting in a southward shift of
isohyets of about 110 km, and a corresponding southward change in vegetation
and climatic conditions suitable for various types of agriculture. The
pattern of degradation of Malian agriculture is characterized by: (a) missive
soil erosion by wind and water in volumes reaching 6.5 tons per ha per annum



-4-
In the Guinean sones (b) loss of soil fertility leading to a progressive
decline In cotton yields in the south; (c) accelerated forest degradation due
to excessive fuelvood use within a 50 km radius of Bamako and a shorter radius
of maller ci.ieol td) overall degradation of rangeland due to overgrazing, as
evidenced by the disappearance of palatable perennial species, which have been
replaced by annual species; (e) lowering of the groundwater table by 6 to 12
meters in some parts of the country over the past ten years; (f) a decline in
fish catches in the Niger from 120,000 tons to about 50,000 tons per annum in
recent years; and (g) accelerated loss of biodiversity, evidenced by the
disappearance of major big game species in the Baoule and Gourma areas. The
true extent of this trend and its permanence are open to debates researchers
have found amazing resilie&ce in. the Northern Sahel, where good rains can
cause good pasturas to spring up in places that have seen no vegetation for 20
years.
1.10        A study of land degradation in Mali' est!mated losses from soil
erosion in the country's most productive areas at 6.5 tons/ha/year, implying
that, vith a 10-year horizon and a 10 discount rate, for example, the mean
present value of net farm income forgone for each year of soil loss would
range between US$12 and US$43 per ha (1988 prlces). At the national level,
gross losses from erosion were estimated at US$30 million to US$106 million
annually (15-5.3 percent of estimated 1988 GDP). The major practical
ccnclusion of this study is that, even based on relatively conservative
assumptions, economic losses due to soil erosion in Mali are probably high
enough in certain areas to justify snbstantial investments in farm-level soil
conservation.
1.11        Thhe Baoule National Park and Biosuhere Reserve is the largest
conservation area in Mali, with the broadest range of flora and fauna still to
be found in this part of West Africa (Map 2). The Baoule reserve complex
consists of the Baoule National Park (3,500 km2), and the Kougossambougou (950
kW2), Badinko (1,930 km2) and Jina (1,630 km2) fauna reserves. The resources
of the complex were documented in a Dutch-financed study in 1981. Management
of the park and reserves has been complicated by the presence in the
conservation area of several villages that have grown over the years, by
transhumant herders' use of the area, and by rampant burning of vegetation
both by pastoralists and settlers. Poaching also occurs in the park, since
park authorl_ies lack resources to enforce conservation laws.
1.12        Women in Natural Resource Management.  Women are both victims and
perpetrators of the rapid natural resource degradation in Malis they supply
their households with water and fuelwood, participate in cropping activities,
and often herd, feed and milk farm animals. Thus, women should be the main
target of any program of improved natural resource management. However, as is
the case of most traditional ethnic communities, women are excluded from
decisions affecting the community. They have little control over the nature
and location of activities to be performed at the village level; they have
little access to land ownership, formal credit, or schooling; and female
Josh Bishop *The On-site Costs of Soil Erosion in Mali%, World
Bank, 1989.



-5-
extension agents. 'iho would be natural candidates to assist women's groups,
are rare. Finally, those who develop and disseminate new technologies seldom
consider the possibility that those technologies will be implemented by women.
There is growing concern about this situation in Mali. As a result, WID
specialists are being hired by increasing numbers of NGOs and government
development institutions.
1.13        Land Tenure.  Existing .egislation has failed to promote effective
land tenure practices and protect natural resources. Clashes among religious,
traditional and modern laws governing land tenure have contributed to
insecurity of land ownership and consequently to overuse of lands and soils.
A new strategy would define the lands to which religious/traditional rules are
to apply and those that are to come under the modern laws of individual land
ownership. At the same time, studies should be carried out to determine the
reasons for the unsatisfactory implementation,enforcement of existing natural
resource legislation, which may need revision in collaboration with local
populations. According to studies carried out under the ongoing IDA-supported
Agricultural Sector Adjustment/Investment operatione, the problems arising
from existing land tenure practices and the possible solutions, vary widely
depending on the nature of the area, so that water (in the Niger Delta),
rangeland (in the Sahelian zone), gazetted forest (close to Bamako), and
agricultural land (CMDT 3rd Region) should all be treated differently.
1.14         En Mali, it is clear that the major land tenure issue is the
forest code, which was legally enacted in 1986. It incorporates special
provisions for trees and forests in the Sahelian zone. The area falling
within the general jurisdiction of the Forest Code la the 'forest domain",
defined as all land not cultivated or planted to orchards, land in cities and
towns, and non-wooded parcels of land to which individuals have title under
the Code Domanial et Foncier (that is, surveyed and registered land, a minimal
percentage of the country's total area). About 90 percent of the Malian
territory is considered forest domain under the terms of the code. Cultivated
land which has been left fallow for more thea five years is considered part of
the forest domain. All protected species listed in the code are protected
wherever they grow in the country, including in cultivated fields. Within the
forest domain, territorial units are further classified as 'protected
forests', 'forest zeservesn, or 'p4rimbtres restauration".  Cultivation and
grazing are forbidden in reserves, except in special circumstances and under
controlled conditions. Subsistence farming is permitted in protected forests,
as is grazing.
E.  Government Obiectives and Strateav for Natural Resource Mananement
1.15        Land degradation is regarded by the Malian government as the
country's single most serious environmental problem. The National Plan for
Desertification Control (PNLCD), issued in 1985 and updated in 1987, manifests
a serious commitment to the issue. This comprehensive document includes eight
2 C. Coulibaly and G. Hesseling, 'Note sur la Problematique fonciere et
la decentralisation au Mali', 1991.



-6-
priority programs, most of which have begun and are at different stages of
implementation: (a) a national land use planning program: many community NRM
projects have been implemented (see list in Annex 2), such as the three Test
Zones implemented by the PNLCD Monitoring Unit (para. 2.06); (b) "green belt'
protection against desertificationt settlement protection against sand dune
invasion has been carried out in the 6th and 7th regions; Ic) coordination and
monitoring of the PNLCD program: national conferences have been held,
including one workshop in November 1990, at which the community natural
resource management approach (para. 2.13) was acknowledged as the approach to
be applied under the PNLCD; (d) a national program of training and public
awarenesss NRM education programs promoted by the Permanent Inter-State
Committee for Drought Control in the Sahel (CILSS) have been implemented at
primary-school, secondary-school and University levels; (e) an appropriate
research program on desertification issues: A comprehensive Agricultural
Research Project currently being prepared with the assistance of IDA; (f)
strengthening and, when required, adjustment of ongoing NRH projects and
programs; the identification of .. wing projects for inclusion in a
monitoring program was started by the PNLCD Monitoring Unit in 1991; (g)
household energy-saving measures to save fuelwood: following a national
improved stoves extension program, the Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program (ESMAP) strategy is being finalized; and (h) the enactment of
legislative, institutional and financial supporting measures: crucial policy
issues have started to be addressed, one of these being land tenure, which was
discussed at a seminar held in November 1991.
1.16         In addition to the foregoing, the establishment of the PNLCD has
created considerable environmental awaren.ess among technical staff and, to a
lesser extent, among the public. It has shown that a problem of such
dimensions cannot be tackled piecemeal, but that its solution requires a
comprehensive and inter-sectoral program. Although the above initiatives have
been targeted to the major constraints identified as affecting natural
resource management (para.1.08), they have fallen short of curbing the
degradation described in para 1.09. The Malian Government is aware of these
problems and is actively pursuing solutions. One of the main responses is the
use of the innovative participatory approach (para. 2.13), already part of a
wide range of government interventions in the field of natural resource
management. The Government is aware that the successful implementation of
this new strategy will require lengthy testing and development, adaptation to
local conditions, significant training and re-training, and an extensive
public awareness program. The Government recently expressed its interest in
natural resource development in the context of a comprehensive approach to all
environmental issues, in the form of a National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP), to be prepared with the support of IDA and other donors. The database
to be established under the proposed project will contribute to meeting the
objectives of the future NEAP.
F. IDA Strategy
1.17        IDA has recommended that the Halian Government's priorities in the
agricultural sector should lie in the following five areas: (a) active
participation of villagers in the design and implementation of agricultural
policies, and providing them with maximum incentives (Agricultural Sector



-7-
Adjustment/Investment operation); (b) improved technical support enabling
villagers to increase and diversify production (essentially by implementing
the ongoing Agricultural Services Program) (para. 4.23); (c) rehabilitation of
existing irrigation schemes rather than building new ones (Office du Niger);
(d) a comprehensive natural resource management program, and the establishment
of a new legal and institutional framework giving local communities more
authority and accountability in its implementation; and (e) reforms aimed at
streamlining demand-driven services, intensifying production through
appropriate land use policies and extension, and improving the international
competitiveness of Halian exports.
1.18        According to a recent review by the Bank of environmental
strategies relevant to Mali, the causes of environmental degradation should be
addressed by:
(a)   viewing the demographic problem as one component of a complex
issue embracing population, agriculture and the environment;
(b)   seeking economic and technological alternatives, relevant to both
men and women, to ease pressure on resources, particularly through
the intensification of agriculture and stockraising, provided this
is compatible with the preservation of basic resources;
(c)   developing public awareness and intensifying all types of training
relative to the use and protection of natural resources;
(d)   developing practical and acceptable solutions to problems of
legislation and land tenure;
(e)   establishing planning procedures for land operations, starting at
the grassroots level and proceeding upward to the regional and
national levels;
(f)   adapting macroeconomic policy to sustainable development; and
(g)   encouraging the establishment and/or strengthening of institutions
and programs involved in the production and dissemination of
environmental information.
G. Experience With Past Lendint
1.19        IDA's Portfolio.  The Bank's program in Mali has focused
increasingly on the environment.  The now-mandatory pre-appraisal
environmental assessment of all projects is of special importance in
agriculture and forestry, and water supply. In addition, environmental
concerns are addressed to some extent in the urban and energy projects, as
well as indirectly in the education project. With respect to the agricultural
and forestry sectors, three ongoing projects should be mentioned. The Mopti
Area Development Project (Cr. 1597-MLI), initially geared to agriculture and
animal health, has encouraged the creation of pastoral associations that will
be essential to the successful introduction of sustainable rangeland
management practices in the Sahelian part of the country. The Forestry II



-8-
Project (Cr. 1654-MLI) was designed to address the increasing threat of
deforestation, the diminishing supply of fuelvood, and biodiversity
conservation.  The Office du Niger Consolidation Project (Cr. 1906-MLI) aims
at rehabilitating and maintaining existing irrigation structures and improving
the institution's management.
1.20        More recently, an Agricultural Services project (Cr. 2235-MLI) was
approved that specifically provides for the dissemination by individual agents
of messages relevant to agricultural, livestock, and natural resource
management. The Agricultural Sector Adjustment/Investment Loan (Cr. 2163-
MLI), approved in 1990, addresses environmental concerns in two ways. First,
in the context of preparation of the Mali Sud investment program, it provided
for a special environmental reconnaissance mission to identify, in the
Bougouni region, the measures needed to minimize potential adverse impacts of
the development program. This mission mode a number of recommendations, on
the basis of which the project executing agency (CMDT) pledged tot (a)
prepare a wildland management plan by March 1992, and a natural resource
inventory of the Bougouni region with numerous soil maps (completed); (b)
monitor, on a regular basis, the impact of pesticide/fertilizer use on the
water quality of the Bani River; and (c) protect the region's cultural,
historic and archaeological sites. Second, the adjustment component of the
credit supports certain natural resource management measures to be taken in
coordination with preparation of the proposed Natural Resource Management
Project, namely: (a) the full and appropriate staffing of the national
coordination unit; (b) the presentation of a national resource management
strategy by July 1991; and (c) the completion of a study on traditional and
modern land use rights in different regions. A first set of studies on test
operations and legal issues in the area of land tenure in Mali has already
been launched with CILSS and USAID financing. Based on the results of those
studies. a second set of studies of local land tenure problems and solutions
should be launched later this year.
1.21        The ongoing Health, Population and Rural Water Supply Project (Cr.
2217-MLI) deals with several of the causes of environmental degradation
described above: the health component aims at increasing the coverage and
quality of health care, focusing on decentralization and community
participation; the population component is designed both to strengthen the
institutions in charge of disseminating and implementing the national
population policy and of planning, managing and evaluating family planning
programs, and to improve family planning services; the rural water supply
component aims to improve the supply of safe drinking water in rural areas.
1.22        Performance Assessment.  Of the past agricultural projects, the
two Mali'Sud operations (Cr. 669-MLI and Cr. 1415-MLI) were remarkable
successes as they have resulted in increasing cotton output by 40 percent over
the targets set at appraisal. The functional literacy programs included in
these operations have also made a particularly useful contribution to the
establishment and self-management of villagers' and herders' associations. On
the other hand, a performance analysis of the free-standing livestock and
forestry projects indicates that these projects were not as effective as
initially planned. While there were many different reasons for this, four key
problems kept reappearing:



-9-
(a)         the projects ignored the crucial inte:-sectoral linkages
that are essential in any rural environment. The proposed
NRM Project would deal simultaneously with all subsectoral
aspects (pastoral, agricultural, forestry) of villagers'
production systems (para. 2.13);
(b)         the local communities were insufficiently involved in
project planning and implementation and, therefore, had
little incentive to participate (Mali Livestock Project (Cr.
538-MLI)). In the proposed project, Community NRM Plans are
established by the villagers themselv_s (paras. 2.12-2.13);
(c)         centralized project management units were poorly placed to
react to complex ane highly specific local conditions. In
the proposed project, decisions would be made at the field
level by villagers with the support from regional TSTs and
local authorities (para. 1.10); and
(d)         the establishment of fixed, long-term physical targets was
not only unrealistic but also often detrimental to project
implementation (Mali Forestry I Project, Cr. 883-MLI). Under
this system, managers were unable to react to' lessons
learned during implementation and to dynamic changes in the
natural environment. In the proposed project, in addition
to key indicators determined at appraisal, village specific
indicators would be established gradually as each village
designs its own community NRM Plan (para. 3.07).



- 10 -
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. Institutional Set-uM
2.01        The Ministries of Agriculture and of Livestock and the Environment
merged in 1991 into the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Environment
(MAEE) for the purpose of better coordination of their activities.   They have
maintained strict individual chains of command from capital to field, with
minimal intersectoral linkages. To overcome such shortcomings, the Government
is sponsoring studies and national consultations which will certainly result
in additional institutional adjustments aimed essentially at implementing the
Government's decentralization policy (para 2.03).
2.02        The MAEE and the Ministry of Interior and Regional Development are
in charge of rural development, although two other ministries -- Health and
Social Affairs and Planning -- are indirectly involved. MAEE includes four
Departments directly concerned with the management of natural resources: the
National Department of Agriculture (DNA), the National Department of Water and
Forests (DNEF), the National Department of Rural Infrastructure (DNGR), and
the National Department of Animal Husbat.dry (DNE). In addition, the MAEE
includes institutions such as the Institate for Rural Economy (IER), dealing
with agricultural research, and a small unit under the MAEE Cabinet dealing
with environmental issues, the Monitoring Unit of the National Desertification
Control Program (PNLCD) (para. 2.04).
2.03        Decentralization in the rural sector is handled at two levels.  At
the administrative level, the relevant bodies are the Development Committees,
which operate within the regional, district (cercle) and subdistrict
(arrondissement) contexts. At the community level, responsibility resides in
Development Councils consisting of popularly elected delegates. The Local
Development Committees (Comitds Locaux de D6veloppement-CLD), consist of
representatives of the technical departments of the MAEE and are chaired by
the local administrative leader. These leaders are the *chef d'arrondissement
at the subdistrict (arrondissement) level, the "commandant de cercles at the
district level, and the "gouverneurm at the regional level. Local Development
Committees prepare the rural development budgets which must be approved by the
Local Development Councils. The people's elected representatives on the
Development Councils were previously political appointees from the state party
and played virtually no role in the programming and budgeting process.
Consequently, most local power has remained in the hands of the local
administrative authorities, at the expense of the effective popular
participation that is the ultimate goal of the policy of decentralization. As
a result, tax receipts earmarked for local rural development expenditures,
which have always been small and are declining, have been mostly controlled by
the local administrative authorities and often used for things other than
rural development. The Government is aware of this problem, which is the
subject of several ongoing studies, and has been an issue in such grassroots
consultations as the 'Etats Generaux du Monde Rural* held in November 1991.
2.04        PNLCD Monitorina Unit. In October 1989, the Government established
a unit charged with implementing the PNLCD. Known as the PNLCD Monitoring
Unit, it was placed under the Office of the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock
and Environment, and was funded by a US$2.5 million Norwegian grant



- 11 -
administered by IDA. The unit also received technical assistance from UNSO and
Germany (GTZ), which have provided, since late 1990, respectively one and four
expatriate specialists. The first set of activities carried out by the unit
included the monitoring and evaluation of ongoing programs and projects, the
exchange of information on community natural resource management, and the
organization of seminars and workshops and preparation of NRM operations with
the Government and donors. The second set of activities of the Unit consisted
of implementing the natural resource management approach in Test Zones, as
discussed below (para. 2.06).
B.  OnRoing Natural Resource ManaRement Proiects
2.05          A 1990 survey inventoried as many as 130 projects directly
related to the management of natural resources, of which 110 were implemented
by NGOs (see details in Annex 2). They include: (a) in addition to the Test
Zones (para. 2.06), efforts at integrated development by the Canadian agency
CIDA (Terroir Management of the Bani, Niger Area, ATD2), UNSO (Tonka Wetland
Area Project), and the French CCCE (CMDT Terroir Management Program); (b) some
land and water conservation operations in agricultural areas, such as CMDT's
Mali Sud Erosion Control Project (PLAE) and the bia Agro-Ecological Project
financed by Germany's GTZ; (c) pastoral organizatior and rangeland management
under development by IDA, CCCE and Norway (Mopti Area Development Project,
MADP), Saudi funds (Pastoral Development in the Occidental Sahel, PRODESO),
the CCCE (Agro-pastoral Project in Sikasso, PAAP), a.nd others (Kaarta
Integrated Development Operation, ODIK); (d) forestry management under IDA and
CCCE projects (Forestry Production Management Operation, OAPF), Switzerland
(PADREF and OARS in Sikasso), the Netherlands (Seg;ou Rural Forestry, FORS),
USAID (Mopti Vi.llage Forestry Project, PRV and Nisfounke Project), and FAO
(Koulikouro Forestry Project); (e) biodiversity ar.d wildlife conservation
operations by IDA (Baoule National Park, financed under Forestry II), Norway
(Gourma Area Project) and IUCN (Youvaro Project).
2.06        Three districts (cercles) were chosen as Test Zones for the
proposed project, with Norwegian funding administered by IDA. These districts
were Djenne in the Delta (5th Region) and Koutiala and Kadiolo in the Southern
cotton area (3rd Region). These pilot operations have been carried out in a
total of 31 villages since late 1990, and should be completed by the end of
the Norwegian grant period (December 1992), but they will continue to be
supported and monitored under the proposed project (para. 4.26).
2.07        Lessons Learned.  These numerous operations reflect a massive
donor commitment to natural resource conservation. They touch on diverse
aspects af natural resource management and represent a comprehensive range of
experience in this area. Although often poorly coordinated and sometimes
overlapping, these operations have generated a large number of technologies
that have been thoroughly tested and can be applied in agricultural, pasture
and forestry operations on different types of soils and slopes. Costs given
in Annex 3 are only indicative, since they can vary according to the soil
type, distance from raw materials, degree of mechanization, etc. Among the
techniques available, those intended for water harvesting and erosion control
(e.g., different types of bunds) have proved to be of special interest in
agricultural lands (see Annex 3).



- 12 -
2.08        The primary benefit of these techniques is to maintain the long-
term productivity of the land base, although field studies increasingly
indicate that significant short-term yield gains are also possible. In three
agroclimatic zones of Burkina Faso similar to those of the project area2, a
three-year evaluation of impermeable earthen bund anti-erosion systems built
during the previous five years showed an average grain yield increase of 30
percent (170 kg/ha) on sorghum fields and 43 percent (90 kg/ha) on millet
fields. Permeable rock bund water-harvesting systems show even higher short-
term productivity results. A four-year evaluation of such systems constructed
by farmers in the highly degraded Yatenga region of Burkina Faso demonstrated
yield gains of nearly 55 per cent. Because bunding systems require little or
no cash outlay, and construction is done during the dry season when the
opportunity c,)st of labor is low, these techniques are well suited to small
farmers' resources. Economic analyses of the package tested by ICRISAT have
shown that. a break-even annual sorghum yield increment of only 155 kg would
assure a return of 15 percent on the labor and cash investment. This
increment was exceeded by 67 percent of farmer participants in the Sahelo-
Sudanian zone, but by fewer than 20 percent in the Sudano-Guinean zone.
2.09         One can conclude from these diverse preliminary experiments that:
(a) although pilot operations have not always been wall implemented, the
overall approach is welcomed by communities; (b) communities have responded
particularly well whenever traditional leaders have been associated with the
process; (c) given the interdisciplinary nature of production systems and the
continuous adjustments they require, technical support must be provided
simultaneously by all technical departments through a single channel of
communication; (d) the definition of a management unit must take into
consideration all the component groups of a given community (agriculturists,
herders, fishermen, etc.), and (e) when a resource is to be shared with other
villages or social groups, the management unit needs to include all the users.
Pilot operations have also highlighted some difficulties and constraints: (a)
a variable, but lengthy, period of time is required for the whole process; (b)
full empowerment and involvement of local administration and villagers is
required; (c) training of all parties involved is a prerequisite; and (d)
addressing crucial policy issues, such as land tenure, is essential.
2.10        The experience gained from this profusion of pilot operations
shows that a national capacity for coordination, monitoring and evaluation is
needed to avoid duplication of research and to encourage the dissemination of
results. This process, already initiated by the PNLCD Monitoring Unit, has
shown how closely NGOs are associated with NRM activities in Mali: a survey by
the CCA-NGO iri Bamako has identified 90 NGOs dealing with natural resource
management and requiring training in this field. Any program aimed at
improving resource management in Mali will clearly need to take advantage of
the considerable experience of NGOs in this area, either by calling upon them
as consultants or by sub-contracting certain village-level project components
to them, or both.
2      Peter J. Matlon "Prospects for Improving Productivity in Sorghum
and Millet in West Africa", ICRISAT 1989.



- 13 -
C. The Comunuitv Natural Resource Management ApDroach
2.11        Based on the experience gained under the above-mentioned NRM
projects and elsewhere in the Sahel, the Government has developed a new
approach to NRM operations in Mali (see Annex 1). The French term "terroir'
designates an expanse of land and water from which a giver. community (settled
villagers or nomadic herders) makes its living, individually or together with
other communities, permanently, seasonally, or occasionally (in the case of
drought). For practical reasons, this concept has been rendered as the
uCommunity Natural Resource Management Approach", since it is not intended to
apply only to settled villagers, and is not restricted to the areas around
villages.
2.12         The main aim of the approach is to develop a system to improve
the effectiveness and sustainability of land, water and natural vegetation
management by rural communities, taking into account the important role of
women in natural resource management. There are four elements to the
approach: (a) increased local participation in the identification and
implementation of rural development and natural resource managemkent
activities; (b) the development of incentives and skills to enable the local
community to exercise greater responsibility in land management and local
development; (c) the establishment of clear, openly negotiated agreements
between administrative and technical authorities and local communities; and
td) the development of multi-sectoral community NRM plans (dealing
simultaneously with agriculture, livestock and forestry activities) that will
result in demand-driven. rather than supply-driven, services.
2.13        The approach is flexible and can be adjusted to local conditions.
It should be stressed that, because it is a 'process" rather than a
'blueprint' for rural development, it is relevant to any production system or
combination of production systems found in Mali: multi-sectoral (fishing,
irrigated crops and livestock) in the Delta, pastoral in the Sahelian Zone,
sylvo-pastoral in the Sudanian Zone, and agro-sylvo-pastoral elsewhere. The
approach is implemented in seven essential steps:
(a)   identification and support of relevant local institutions:  Local
Development Committees (para. 2.03) on the side of the authorities
and community NRM groups (para. 4.02) on the villagers' side;
there should be a sensitization and training phase to prepare them
for the tasks ahead;
(b)   identification of the agendas of the different groups constituting
the local village community (including occasional resource users
such as transhumant herders). These agendas includet
(i)    quality of life (social structure and values, security,
equity, social service priorities);
(ii)    production and income generation; and
(iii)   a vision of the landscape best suited to achievement of
the production and quality-of- life goals defined above;



- 14 -
(c)   a pre'im':,ary survey, carried out with the community involved, of
local resources and constraints, and covering all private,
communal and public (domanial) land of relevance to the community
(defined as the community's Oterroir"); the survey aims at
identifying possible tools (whether currently used or not)
available to help achieve the community's objectives;
(d)   the establishment of a simple community NRM plan, including long-
term land use projections, choice of technologies most likely to
result in achieving the goals, and the necessary resources
(financial, labor) required,
(e)   negotiation between the villagers and local administrative
representatives concerning the community NRM plan and funding
requirements, leading to a common understanding of the respective
roles, responsibilities and contributions (in both cash and kind)
required from the authorities and the community;
(f)   implementation of the community NRM plan: inputs, funding and
other resources would be provided according to the agreed
schedule; the plan should have sufficient incentives and positive
advantages to encourage all parties to abide by the schedule;
(g)   an annual qualitative and quantitative review by both parties of
achievements under the Plan and associated agreements; based on
the results of a close monitoring of operations, they will
identify any constraints and adjust the community NRM plan to
changing circumstances.
D. Status of Project Prevaration
2.14        Without waiting for the three Test Zone operations implemented by
the PNLCD Monitoring Unit to reach full development, the Malian Government
decided to set up a national program of natural resource management based on
the following observations: (a) the seriousness of the observed resource
degradation (para. 1.09); (b) the experience of earlier projects, which was
sufficient to allow the rural communities to start full-scale implementation
of the approach; and (c) the obvious inability of isolated test operations to
tackle such issues such as land tenure, decentralization, effective access to
resources by rural communities, and skills development, all of which must be
addressed at the national level. At the request of the Malian Government, the
proposed project was identified by the Norway-funded PNLCD Monitoring Unit and
its German GTZ and UNSO technical assistance together with an FAO/CP mission
in April 1990, followed by two preparation missions in November 1990 and June
1991 (also from FAO/CP). These missions produced the project document
submitted for appraisal by the IDA mission in December 1991. Project
preparation was entirely participatory, with three action planning workshops
organized in November 1990 and April and November 1991 with the relevant
institutions and donors.
2.15        Proiect Preparation Facility (PPF).  Several actions, which have
cost implications, should be carried out before project implementation. These
are: (a) recruitment of four contractual staff before project effectiveness;
(b) establishment of a computerized accounting system, production of a manual



- 15 -
and training of future accountantos (c) carrying out of several pre-
implementation workshops; (d) preparation of bidding documents for procurement
under the training component; (e) obtention by IDA of evidence, verified by a
consultant, that the proposed land tenure arrangements are possible; (f)
preparation of a "manuel de procedures' by a consultant, and (g) recruitment
of an auditing firm. In order to finance these operations prior to
effectiveness, it was agreed during negotiations that a PPF in the amount of
US$200,000 would be requested.



- 16 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale and Obiectives
3.01        Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The proposed project
supports the strategies of both the Government and IDA in terms of
ensuring efficient and sustainable use of natural resources in Mali
(paras. 1.15-1.17). The Project's participatory approach corresponds to
IDA's strategy of enhancing local governance. The proposed project
would: (a) build upon natural resource management experience gained
under recent projects funded by IDA and other donors, such as the Mopti
Area Development Project, the Forestry II Project (para. 4.24), and the
IDA-administered Norwegian grant supporting the Government's PNLCD
program (para. 2.04); (b) reinforce IDA's leading role in such key areas
as agricultural extension services by building on the recent
Agricultural Services Project (FY91); and (c) contribute to the
continued improvement of donor coordination.
3.02        Obiectives.  The primary objective of the Project is to
introduce a rational land use system which will stop and reverse the
process of degradation of the natural resource base, which is currently
the greatest threat to sustainable agricultural growth. The specific
objective of the Project is two-fold: (a) to build up the capacity of
local communities to manage their own natural resources, and build
institutional capacity within the MAEE to enable it to advise villagers
on these matters; and (b) to build an environmental information system
for coordinating and guiding the diverse initiatives underway throughout
the country, and incorporate the lessons of those field experiences into
a national NRM strategy.
B. Summary Description
3.03        The proposed project is regarded as the initial five-year
experimental phase of a 15-20 year national program. The core of the
Project will consist in helping rural communities design and implement
sustainable management plans for their lands and natural resources.
Since the content of the Project will depend to a great extent on the
demands expressed by the rural communities, project design must be
flexible. The Project will enable the Government to provide technical
and financial support to community land management design and
implementation, and includes provisions to strengthen the legal and
institutional framework necessary for the success of the operation.
3.04        The Project will support the following:
(a)   identification, design and implementation of Community
Natural Resource Management Plans involving about 150
villages within three administrative regions of Mali and
distributed among representative agro-ecological zones of
the country;
(b)   design and implementation of a management and monitoring
plan for the Baoule National Park, in addition to the
establishment and execution of Community NRM Plans in the 10



- 17 -
villages (of the 150 villages to be covered by the Project)
currently located inside the park that will be outside its
boundaries when these have been redrawn;
(c)   institutional support for central and local govermnent
authorities (i) to help with project management and assist
rural communities in implementing their Community NRM Plans,
and (ii) to provide the Government with basic environmental
monitoring facilities which could be further developed;
(d)   a  comprehensive training and public information/awareness
program on natural resource management; and
(e)   financial support for the provision of technical assistance,
consultant services, audits, applied research and studies
required for project implementation.
C. Detailed Features
Communitv Natural Resource Management
3.05        The Project would finance two types of investments at
village level: (a) actions designed to stop the degradation of soil,
water and vegetation, whose production impact can vary from short-term
(e.g., earth bunds in agricultural land in mixed farming systems) to
very long-term (e.g., rehabilitation of natural forests and restoration
of degraded rangeland); and (b) limited social services/infrastructure
and productive investments with direct and immediate impact on the
communities' quality of life. These investments would involve roughly
150 villages covering 15,000 km2 and comprising around 95,000 villagers
(roughly 1.5 percent of Mali's total area and population).
3.06        These villages are distributed within 11 of Mali's 46
districts (cercles) (Map 2) located within three of the country's eight
administrative regions (lst, 2nd and 5th). They exemplify the country's
major agroecological and production systems (Annex 4). These
investments would be part of Community NRM Plans based on the villagers'
expressed long-term objectives and resources (cash and labor) and would
be carried out in step with the progressive development of the working
relationships between the project field staff and the villagers. The
average capital cost per village over the project period would be about
CFAF 29.0 million (US$104,000), i.e. an average cost per beneficiary of
CFAF 46,000 (US$165), of which at least 25 percent would be financed in
cash and labor by beneficiaries (para. 3.20).
3.07        Investments in Natural Resources.  In accordance with the
community NRM approach (para. 2.13), the final choice of technologies is
made based on the existing ecological constraints and the community's
objectives. Therefore, the following list of investments is tentative
and should not be viewed as quantitative project objectives or
subsequently as indicators of project achievements. The long-term
project implementation indicators (Annex 9) would reflect the
socioeconomic and ecological impact of the community NRM approach.



- 18 -
Short-term implementation would be monitored according to the specific
investment objectives included in the project's annual work plan, based
on the Community NRM Plans after they have been negotiated and agreed
upon with project Technical Support Teams (TSTs) and the District
Coordinator (para. 4.32).
3.08        In addition to labor, to be supplied mostly by
beneficiaries, the land and water conservation techniques to be used
involve the following inputs to be financed under the Project: (a)
transportation (stones, earth, water, building materials); (b) plant
material (trees, seeds); (c) mechanization (earth-moving, boring,
firebreaks, harrowing, pitting); (d) building materials (concrete, beams
and wire netting); (e) fencing material (posts, barbed wire); (f) sand
dune fixation devices (weaving, plastic); (g) pumping equipment; (h)
small implements (shovels, picks, wheel barrows); (i) small supplies
(paint, fertilizers).
3.09        The cost tables have been prepared based upon the following
assumptions concerning possible investments ir- the village land and
water conservation component:
(a)   water harvesting techniques over about 10,000 ha, including
earth, stone and vegetation contour bunds, and the deepening
of 90 natural ponds;
(b)   erosion control, including different watershed correction
techniques (stones, plantings) over 1,500 ha, and planting
of 7,500 ha of watershed areas threatened by erosion;
(c)   soil fertility rehabilitation and dune control, with
agroforestry plantations over 1,500 ha and fixation of 600
ha of dunes using biological (planting) and physical
techniques;
(d)   protection and rehabilitation of natural vegetation through
the establishment of 1,500 km of firebreaks, 3,500 ha of
forest plantations, and 3,200 km of grazing area boundary
marking to facilitate proper grazing practices;
establishment of 90 village tree nurseries.
3.10        Social Infrastructure and Productive Investments.  To
encourage villagers to invest in natural resource rehabilitation, the
Project would use the proceeds of a Norwegian grant as a matching fund
to finance social and productive investments up to a maximum of 30
percent of the cost of a given community NRM plan. Taking past
experience into account, such investments will only be funded under the
community NRM package when (a) a community expresses strong demand and
shows serious commitment to its further operation and maintenance; (b)
there is no other source (credit, other program) likely to deliver the
investment; and (c) a specialized entity, NGO or other project (para
4.22) is able to provide back-stopping for the sustainability of the
investment. In areas where drinking water would not be provided by the
Second Health, Population and Water Supply Project and the Mopti Area
Development Project, investments to be financed under this component



- 19 -
would include about 12 boreholes, 10 wells, 10 earth dams, in addition
to the improvement of about 60 km of rural roads, the construction of 12
village grain stores, 375 carts for animal traction, F' grain mills, and
22 oil extraction machines.
Baoule National Park and Biosphere Reserve
3.11        Support would be provided for the conservation of Baoule
National Park (para. 1.11) through the following activities:
(a)   realignment of park boundaries to exclude village
settlements and the establishment of livestock corridors
which would not interfere with the conservation area; this
redemarcation would take into account the results of the
socioeconomic survey now underway under the IDA Forestry II
Project (Cr. 1654-MLI);
(b)   support, with the UNDP parallel financing, to the Park
Authority (Office du Parc National de la Boucle du Baoule)
(para. 4.08) in the form of 11 vehicles, equipment, and
temporary technical support, as well as 10 staff-months of
overseas training, technical assistance and operating and
maintenance costs, aimed at strengthening the Park
Authority's capacity to establish, implement and monitor the
management plan for the Park;
(c)   physIcal delimitation, under IDA financing, of the new park
boundaries (trail grading and stone markers), rehabilitation
of internal trails, and rehabilitation and upgrading of some
existing buildings, in addition to the investment costs of
Community NRM Plans for 10 of the villages included in the
150 villages covered by the Project;
(d)   Possible later support by UNDP for this component through
the Global rnvironment Fund (GEF), to be assessed during the
Project's mid-term review (para. 4.37).
Institutional Support for Government Services
3.12        In addition to providing the Government with environmental
and institutional monitoring facilities, the proposed project would
finance the additional technical support required to set up, implement
and monitor the Community NRM Plans:
(a)   At the village level, the Project would be implemented by
extension agents operating simultaneously under the proposed
project and the Agricultural Services Project (para. 4.23);
their tasks are described in para. 4.03. In order to
provide a higher agent/villager ratio, the Agricultural
Services Project would supply 21 extension agents, while 24
agents would be recruited on a contractual basis by the
proposed project. To ensure adequate extension services to
women, half of the 24 new agents would be female. Overall,
the average ratio would be one extension agent (Animateur



- 20 -
Vulgarisateur Villageois, AVV) to two to three villages, or
1/200-300 households;
(b)   the Project's Regional (3) and Local (10) Coordinators, at
the regional and district levels (para. 4.05), would be
provided by the MAEE Directorates of Agriculture, Livestock
and Forestry and would therefore not have to be recruited.
However, the three accountants in charge of the project's
regional second generation special account would be financed
under the proposed project on a contractual basis;
(c)   five technical support teams (TSTs, para. 4.04), based in
Kayes, Diema, Koulikoro, Kolokani and Mopti, would also be
recruited on a contractual basis and financed under the
proposed project for its duration, together with five
secretaries to work in the offices of the project's Local
Coordinators in the above mentioned cities. Each TST would
be staffed with three specialists: one sociologist, one
ecologist and one administrator;
*d)   three of the six members of the Central Implementing and
Monitoring Unit (CIMU) established in Bamako under the MAEE
(para. 4.06) would be recruited on a contractual basis; and
Ce)   at the central level, a National Environmental Monitoring
Facility would be established within the Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation Department of the MAEE. In
addition to financing one professional, one secretary and
one driver, the credit would supply for 20 staff-months of
consultants, 12 staff-months of studies, map production
equipment and would supply aerial photography and satellite
imagery, one four-wheel drive car, and one geographic
information system (GIS) eoftware package.
3.13        In addition to incremental salaries for additional
contractual staff, the proposed project would also cover investment and
operating costs, including the rehabilitation of existing offices,
office equipment (photocopying machines, personal computers when
required), five four-wheel drive vehicles for the technical support
teams, and medium-sized cars for the 13 coordinators; 102 small
motorcycles for the additional extension agents and their coordinators
(staff of the Agricultural Services Project). As in the case of the
Agricultural Services Project, these motorcycles would be sold to agents
on credit, with monthly payments withheld from their salaries.
3.14         The CIMU would receive three four-wheel drive vehicles and
two medium-sized cars. In addition to some rehabilitation of office
space, the Project would finance needed office equipment (computers, a
photocopying machine and a fax machine). It would provide funding for
the operating and maintenance costs of the vehicles and equipment and
the field allowances of the technical staff and drivers.



- 21 -
Skills Development and Public Awareness
3.15        In order to provide villagers, technical and administrative
staff and the general public with the awareness and skills necessary to
the success of the Program, the proposed project would, according to the
methodology described in para. 4.12, finance the following:
(a)   the creation of customized training modules by private
training firms, according to target group, skills required,
and training resources available; these firms will be paid
based on an overhead cost amounting to 30 percent of the
base-line training costs (4.12c);
(b)   the cost of implementing the training program (facilitators,
resource persons, transportation and per diem) based on
services rendered. The training would tentatively take the
form of 1,500 village sensitization days, 2,000 inter-
village meeting days, 1,200 staff-days of start-up
workshops, 2,100 staff-days of periodic team planning
meetings, and 6,200 staff-days of training of trainers for
extension agents and the technical support teams (4.12d);
and
(c)   public information and awareness campaigns on the issues of
natural resource management and environmental protection,
would be subcontracted to local or foreign firms, and
financed annually from the second to the fifth year of
project implementation.
Technical Assistance and Research
3.16        Technical Assistance (TA).  The component would be
implemented bearing in mind that technical assistance is more cost-
effective when carried out by short-term experts rather than by
generalists on long-term assignments, and that, qualifications being
equal, locallv recruited staff perform better than expatriates. Terms
of reference drafted at appraisal, discussed during negotiations and
incorporated into the Project Implementation Volume, would explicitly
require consultants to transfer their knowledge and responsibilities to
their locaL counterparts, and would specify that the success of this
transfer will be a major factor in the evaluation of the consultants'
performance. The Project would provide technical assistance as follows:
(a)   medium-term TA for a period of two and a half years to the
CIMU in the form of three specialists (land-use planning,
adult training, monitoring/evaluation) under the supervision
of a mission leader. This assistance, already provided by
Germany (GTZ) to the PNLCD Monitoring Unit (para. 2.04),
will be transferred to the CIMU when this entity becomes
operational;
(b)   medium-term TA for skills gap analysis and the design of
highly participatory training modules (para. 4.12), for
which expertise is unavailable in Mali. The project would



- 22 -
recruit one specialist in the design of participatory adult
training programs, one specialist in the inter-sectoral
planning of community natural resource management, and one
socio-anthropologist experienced in intercultural
communication in African societies. Norway has expressed
interest in financing this component, which would amount to
100 staff-months distributed over the five years of project
implementation;
(c)   under UNDP financing, six staff-months of a senior park
management specialist and 54 staff-months of a United
Nations volunteer in the same field, for management of the
Baoule National Park which will require skills not available
in Mali;
(d)   an additional 70 staff-months (sm) provided by the Project
for its duration, as required and on a short-term basis.
Consultants would be nationals, recruits from other Sahelian
countries, or expatriates. Twenty-five staff-months would
be allocated to the land tenure component (resource
persons), 15 sm to 'Women in Development, 10 sm to technical
expertise in the agriculture, forestry and livestock sub-
sectors, 10 sm to the computerized processing of the
project's financial management, and 5 sm each to the
preparation of the project's mid-term review (para. 4.37)
and the external audits (para. 4.35). It can be anticipated
that, given the extent of NGO involvement in village-level
natural resource management (para. 2.10), many of these 70
staff-months will be supplied by NGOs operating in the
project area, especially in the fields of land tenure, Women
in Development, and extension of appropriate technologies.
3.17        Ap1plied Research.  In order to secure access to applied
research when required, US$300,000 would be provided under the proposed
project. Potential research requirements have already been identified
for tested technologies (details are available in Working Paper No. 8,
Menu of Technical Interventions, included in the Project Implementation
Volume). Given the project's bottom-up approach, the subjects to be
investigated can be identified only during project implementation.
Applied research would be subcontracted, not necessarily to Mali's
leading research institution, the Rural Development Institute (IER), but
to any Government agency, private institution or NGO submitting a cost-
competitive proposal. Required action-oriented research would be
included in the project's annual work plan to be reviewed with and
approved by IDA. Such research would include, for instance, (a) design
of cost-effective earth bunds (size, material, spacing); (b) assessment
of animal impact (by animal species, soil type, vegetation); (c)
sustainable watershed revegetalisation (vegetation to be used,
establishment, management); (d) design of cost-effective torrent
correction work (using stones, wood, cement); (e) selection of species
relevant to agro-forestry; (f) reliable techniques for rehabilitating
degraded rangeland (pitting, harrowing, animal impact); (g) introduction
of North African covered cisterns for drinking water; and (h) together



- 23 -
with the Agricultural Services Project, research on relevant
agricultural tillage and fertilization techniques.
D. Prolect Costs
3.18         The total base cost of the proposed project (Annex 5) net of
taxes is estimated at US$27.1 million (CFAF 7.3 billion), based on
November 1991 prices. Physical contingencies, amounting to US$2.1
million, are estimated at 10 percent of civil works, equipment,
consultants and studies. These physical contingencies represent about 8
percent of base costs and about 7 percent of total costs. Price
contingencies, amounting to about US$3.0 million, representing 11
percent of base costs and about 9 percent of total costs, are based on
average annual forecasts of international inflation for foreign supplied
goods (3.7 percent per annum), on estimated annual inflation in Mali for
local costs (3.0 percent per annum), and on an implementation period of
five years. The foreign exchange portion of the total project cost is
55 percent. The breakdown of the total project cost of US$32.1 million
is as follows:
Proiect Cost Summary /1/2
U
Total      X      Totel
Local    Foreign    Total      Local   Foreign   Bass    Foreign    Bass
__ __    (CFAF m)   -------___- -   (USS 1) _____   Exchange   Costs
Village Level Investmnts    1659.2    2584. 0    4243.2    6.1      9.6    16.6        t1       68
Bnoul- National Park       217.6      299.2      516.8    .0g       1.1      1.9       68        7
Field Technical Support    696.4      217.6     816.0      2.2      0.8      3.0       27       11
Central Implementation     186.0       64.4     190.4      O.6      0.2      0.7       29        3
and Monitoring Unit               _
Skills DOvelopment and     644.0        6       644.0      2.0       6       2.0       6         7
Public Awarenoss
TA, Research and Studies   168.2      626.6     788.8      6.6      2.3      2.9       79       11
National Environ.           S4.4      186.0     190.4      0.2      06.      0.7       71        2
Monitoring
Rofinancing of PPF          64.4        0         64.4      0.2        0     0.2        0        1
Total Base Costs           8427.2    8916.8    7844.0      12.6    14.4    27.0        58      100
Physicol Contingencles     217.6      863.6      671.2     0.8      1.8      2.1       62        8
Price Contingencies         826.4     489.6      616.0     1.2       1.8     8.0       66       11
Total Project Costs        8971.2    4760.0    6781.2      14.6     17.6    82.1       65       119
Li    Net of identifiable taxes and duties.
/2    The above amounts in CFAF differ from those appearing in the summary cost tables
(Annex 5) and in the detailed cost tables in the Project Implementation File because
of different exchange rates used at appraisal and at negotiations.



- 24 -
S. Financing Plan
3.19        Project costs would be financed by an IDA credit of US$20.4
million equivalent. Co-financing of about US$7.7 million was identified
during appraisal and will be finalized with the Governments of Germany,
Norway, and with the UNDP. The Malian contribution would be US$4.0 million
equivalent. The tentative financing plan is detailed below.
Financina Plan
(in USS million)   (2)
Beneficiaries                    4.0         12
IDA                            20.4          64
Germany                          1.2          4
Norway                           5.0         15
UNDP                             1.5          5
TOTAL                          32.1         100
3.20        The IDA Credit would represent 64 percent of total project costs.
The beneficiaries' contribution. in the form of labor and cash, represents 12
percent of total project costs. Government would also pay the salaries-of
non-contractual staff required by the Project, roughly half the total project
staff, but this amount has not been included in cost estimates. The financing
plan and project costs include valuation of the in-kind labor to be provided
by the rural communities for execution of land improvement works. The total
contribution of beneficiaries (labor and cash) would amount to 25 percent of
village investments, or CFAF 74,000 per household for the duration of the
Project. Since 20 percent of the contribution would be in cash and 80 percent
in labor, the total labor (US$ 1.80 or CFAF 500 a day) contribution would be
120 days per household, or 30 days per household and per year of effective
project implementation. The cash contribution would cover part of the value
of productive equipment for which labor is not required. Detailed mechanisms
for the payment of these amounts would be included in Community NRM Plans to
be agreed upon.
F. Procurement
3.21        The table below summarizes the project elements and their
estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement.



- 25 -
MCLI OF L
NAIURAL IESOURCE MAIAOiENT PROJECT
Tables Suummr of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US*1 mi IIion equivalent)
Procuremnt Method
Pro-c1t Elements                   iCe        LCE         Other          NIF         Total Cost
1. WORKS
l.l Bul ding Renovation - Boundary                                 __ 6.8  _                      0.6
Dolimitatton                              (0.8)                                     (0.8)
1.2  Land & Water                                       4.9         4.6          6.1 a/b/        16.5
Conservation Works                      __       (4.9)      (4.6) f/          __           (9.4)
2. GOODS
2.1  Construction Material                   __       1. a          1.*           0. 6 *          2.9
__      ((.5)       (1.0) aL                       (2.8)
2.2  Equipmnt and Material                   __         0.4         0.1           1.2 S/          1.7
__       (0.4)        (0.1)                        (0.5)
2.8  Vehicle0 6.5                                       0.2         0.1          6.t S/           1.1
(6.5)      (0.2)       (6.1)        __               (0.8)
2.4  Aerial Photographs                      0.2                   6.1           ; 0.0 6/         6.8
and Satellite Imagory                 (0.2)                 (0.1) hI                       (6.8)
S.  CONSULTANCIES
8.1  Studies (Environmental Data                                     1.6                          1.l
Procossing, Mapping, Gendor,                                  (1.0)                         (1.0)
Technical, Accounting)                  __         __
8.2  Technical Assistance                    __         __                                        1.4
8.3  Skill Gcap Analysis/Training                       0_4                      1.4 c/d/         1.7
(0.4)        l.aT            (0.4)
4.  TRAINING                                      __         __          1.7                          2.0
(1.7)        0.3 Si          (1. 7)
5.  MISCELLANEOUS
6.1  Incremental Operating Costs                   _ a              8.6       6.5    g/           8.5
6.2  PPF Refinancing                         __         _           (8.0)                        (8.6)
0.2                          0.2
(0.2)                        (0.2)
TOTAL                                            0.7         7.6         12.1          11.7           82.1
of which (IDA)                                   (0.7)      (7.6)       (12.1)                       (20.4)
Note:Flguree In parentheaa  are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.  N.I.F.: Not IDA-financed.
*/Co- Inonc d jointly with Norway, ',rocurment would be In accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procuremnt
U DLoans and IDA Creditso (Wahington, D.C., May 1986).  Includes land and water conserv-tion workcs US82.1
million; conotruction  at i  USUC.6 million; equipment and mterIal: US86.9 million; *kills gap analysis:
usS8.8 million; operating costa: US80.1 million.
yBeneficiary contribution of US184.0 million In the form of lobor and/or cash provided by beneficiaries.
_/Co-financad In parallol with UNOP; procured In accordance with UNDP regulations In conformity with pars. 1.4 of
World Dank Gulines  Procurement under IBRD Loons and IDA Credits, Washington, D.C., May 1986.  Includes
equipment and mtericl:  11U0.2 million; vehicles: US10.8 million; technical assistance:  USS0S. million; operating
costa: US80.8 million.
d/Co-finonced In parallel with Germany (QTZ); procured In accordance with GTZ regulations In conformity with pers.
14 of World Bank Guidelines: Procuremnt Under ISBRO Loans and IDA Credits, Washington, D.C., Moy 1985). Includes
technical assistance: US 1.1 million; oporating costs: US4.0.l
g/816,060 of aerial photography/satellite Imagery would be co-financed In parallel with UNDP and procured in
accordance with UNOP regulations as stated In footnote S/.
VAdditional labor over and above the beneficiaries' contributlon of US1S4.0 million will be provided through labor
contracta on the basis of stndard unitary coats with procedures acceptable to IDA.
g/Construction mterials such as concrete, steel rods, fencing to bo procured on tho baols of at least three priel
quotation.
k/Since only one company produces either spot or landsot satellite Imagery, *ole source procureent will be
applied.



- 26 -
3.22        Civil works included in the Project are:
(a)   renovation of existing office buildings, park delimitation,
and road/trail rehabilitation, estimated to cost US$800,000;
(b)   land and water conservation works located in 150 remote
villages with an average estimated value of US$16,000 per
contract with about 2 contracts per village.
These works will be procured on the basis of LCB up to an aggregate amount of
5.7 million because of the small value of individual contracts, their timing,
and the scattered nature of the sites. The LCB procedures have been reviewed
and found satisfactory to IDA. In cases where LCB procurement procedures
above did not result in any bid, civil works estimated to cost less than
US$30,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of US$300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers elivible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association. There are, however, additional civil works
relating to bunds, tree planting, torrent correction and watershed management
and valued at US$4.5 million located in 150 remote villages. The nature of
these works is such that they cannot be executed by competitive bidding.
These works will be carried out and supervised by 5 Technical Support Teams
based on criteria and standards which will be equally applied to all villages.
A manual of procedures is being produced and will be submitted to the Bank as
a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.02h) For each type of work to be
executed, a standard unit cost would be established in consultation with IDA,
and the IDA participation would be limited to about 47Z of the expenditure,
based on the standard unit costs and up to a maximum amount of US$4.5 million.
Beneficiaries will provide labor, and in some cases, cash valued at US$4.0
million, as their contribution of 25Z of the total cost of the village level
investments.
3.23        Goodst Goods financed under the Project would include vehicles,
office equipment, audio-visual equipment and materials, spare parts, and
construction materials. Most of the vehicles would be procured in the first
two years of project, except for replacement vehicles, and could be grouped
into packages of at least US$100,000 each and procured by international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1985). Contracts for vehicles procured
through ICB would total US$500,000. Aerial photographs of an estimated value
of US$200,000 would be purchased through ICB. Since only one company produces
either Spot or Landsat satellite imagery (estimated value US$100,000), sole
source procurement will be applied. Goods procured under contracts estimated
to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent each, which in the aggregate would not
exceed US$1.9 million equivalent, would be suitable for procurement through
LCB under procedures acceptable to IDA. The remaining goods, which cannot be
grouped into bid packages of at least US$30,000 equivalent, would be procured
on the basis of price quotations from at least three suppliers, provided that
the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed US$1.2 million
equivalent.



- 27 -
3.24        Services:  Consultants financed by IDA, totalling US$1.5 million
would be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency
(August 1981), and all such contracts would be subject to prior review.
Consulting services financed would be for studies -- environmental data
processing, mapping, gender analysis, accounting, land tenure, agriculture,
natural resource management, and livestock -- (estimated 90 staff-months),
skills gap analysis and training (estimated 260 staff-months). A table
detailing the nature and source of consultants is at Annex 11.
3.25        The Central Implementing and Monitoring Unit (CIMU) of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Environment is the principal
implementing agency responsible for carrying out the Project, including all
procurement. The submission of a detailed procurement plan, except for
village local investments, with timetables satisfactory to IDA, would be a
condition of effectiveness for the proposed credit (para. 6.02a).
3.26        A Country Procurement Assessment Report was completed in March
1985. Procurement procedures were recently reviewed following Government's
procurement reform initiative. The legal framework for public sector
procurement consists of: (a) Law No. 90.06/AN-RM of February 19, 1990 creating
the Directorate General of Public Sector Procurement (Direction Generale des
Marches Publics); (b) Decree No. 90-030/P-RM of even date establishing the
organisation and functions of the above-mentioned Directorate; and (c) Decree
No. 92-059/P-CTSP of February 14, 1992, establishing in detail the
responsibilities of all entities concerned with public sector procurement. In
particular, LCB procedures provided by the latter Decree are acceptable to the
Bank.
3.27        IDA-financed contracts for works, goods and services above a
threshold of US$100,000 equivalent each would be subject to IDA's prior
review. Selective post review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels
would be carried out on about one in 20 works contracts and one in 5 goods and
services contracts.
3.28        Assurances were obtained during negotiations that procurement of
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit will take place in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to IDA (para. 6.01a). Procurement information will be
collected and recorded as follows:
(a)   prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower;
(b)   comprehensive semi-annual reports to the Bank by the Borrower,
indicating:
(i)   revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the
total project, including best estimates of allowances for
physical and price contingency;
(ii) revised timing of procurement actions, including
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time
for individual contracts;



- 28 -
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement; and
(c)   a project completion report prepared within three months of the
credit's closing date.
G. Disbursements
3.29         The Project corresponds to a five-year program and the IDA credit
would be disbursed over a period of six years. The credit closing date will
be December 31, 1998. The estimated semi-annual disbursement schedule is at
Annex 6.
3.30        The full financing of incremental operating costs under the Credit
during the life of the Project is required since (a) the Government is funding
all recurrent operating costs through the transfer of about half the project
staff from other services, and (b) the operation is a time-slice of a long-
term program, therefore, during implementation, incremental operating costs
cannot be financed on a declining basis, which does not diminish the
Government commitment to the Project.   The IDA credit would be disbursed on
the basis of the categories shown below:
Z of Expenditures
IDA Allocation       to be Financed
Category of Expenditure              (USS million)             by IDA
1. Civil Works
A. Project Civil Works                9.0                    100
B.  Civil Works-Baoule Park           0.5                    100
2. Vehicles, Equipment, Materials        2.9                    100
3. Aerial Photographs, Satellite         0.3                    100
Imagery
4. Consultant Services                   1.2                    100
5. Training                              1.6                    100
6. Incremental Operating Costs           2.7                    100
7. Refinancing of PPF                    0.2                    100
8. Unallocated                           2.0
TOTAL                                20.4
3.31        Disbursement of the IDA Credit would be fully documented except
for expenditures valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent, which will be
against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) certified by the CIMU's
Administrative and Financial Officer and the Project Director. CIMU would be
responsible for preparing withdrawal applications and will indicate on SOEs
the nature and origin of any goods and payment date. Documentation for
withdrawals under SOEs (invoices, evidence of shipment, evidence of payments,
etc.) would be retained at the CIMU for review by IDA staff during supervision
missions and for regular annual audits.
3.32        To expedite disbursements and ensure that funds are available when
needed, the Government will open two Special Accounts: Special Account A,



- 29 -
operated by CIMU and Special Account B, operated by the National Environmental
Monitoring Facility, in a commercial bank, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Immediately after Credit effectiveness, IDA
would make an initial deposit of US$1.0 million into Special Account A,
representing about four months' expenditures, and a deposit of US$100,000 into
Special Account B. The accounts would be used to finance the local and
foreign costs of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. CIMU will also
initiate the establishment, at regional banks, of three Second Generation
Special Accounts (SGSAs) for US$100,000 each to be provided through Special
Account A. The Regional Coordinators will administer these funds, obtain the
necessary documentation justifying incurred expenditures and will seek
replenishment of their second generation special accounts on a monthly basis.
Following this, CIMU will prepare the replenishment request of the Special
Account. IDA would replenish the Special Account upon receipt of satisfactory
proof of incurred expenditures and evidence that such expenditures were
eligible for financing. Up-to-date bank statements and reconciliation of the
Special Accounts would accompany replenishment requests.
3.33        Disbursements have been estimated using a six-year project
disbursement period instead of the standard seven-year historical disbursement
profile for agricultural projects in Mali.



- 30 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Proiect Organization
4.01        The administrative set-up of the Project has been designed to
allow for the recent profound changes experienced by the Malian Government and
to facilitate a smooth adjustment to the changes likely to occur in the
following areas: (a) organization of the Ministry of Agriculture, following
the National Seminar on the subject (Bamako, March 1992); (b) decentral-
ization, with definition of the mandate and responsibilities to be granted to
regional and local Development Committees and Councils; and (c) the nature and
tasks of the entity charged in the future with coordinating and implementing
Mali's environmental policy. A brief description of the four different
institutional levels of the p oposed project, from the village (the final
project target) to the National Coordination Committee at the cen.tral level,
will clarify how the Project is to be implemented and managed (Annex 10,
Organizational Chart).
4.02        At Village Level.  Once they have satisfied the selection criteria
(para. 4.20), villages involved in project activities would establish, in
addition to existing Village Associations (AV), which have a more
administrative and political mandate, a Village NRM Group that would be the
primary channel of communication with the proposed project. The NRM group
would decide on any action to be carried out, and would be involved in any
decisions dealing with the use of community land, water and vegetation. The
Village NRM Group would designate Delegates to meetings and consultations held
outside the village; it would include representatives of the village's various
sub-sectoral groups (farmers, herders, forest users, women, etc.). These
Community NRMs and sub-sectoral groups would be the target of most extension
work and would be in charge of implementing the agreed Community NRM Plans.
4.03        At Sub-District (Arrondissement) Level.  On average, the proposed
project would share with the Agricultural Services Project one extension agent
for 200 villagers (instead of the 400 covered by one extension agent working
under the Agricultural Services Project alone). The activities of extension
agents will be scheduled twice a month during the fortnightly training and
planning sessions carried out by the proposed project's Technical Support
Teams (TSTs) and the Agricultural Extension Project's subject matter
specialists. On average, extension agents will extend agricultural messages
to farmer contact groups two and a half days per week with the support of
subject matter specialists from the Agricultural Services Project, and will
transmit messages aimed at the sustainable management of collectively- owned
resources to village sub-sectoral groups with the support of TSTs from the.
proposed project for another two and a half days per week. Extension agents
would not be required to carry out extra non-extension activities: these would
be implemented by the TSTs.
4.04        Each of the project's five TSTs (para. 3.12c) would assist about
nine extension agents and 30 villages. The TSTs would train and support the
extension agents in their efforts to help the villagers gain full control over
methodological procedures and technologies designed to enable them to manage
their resources with minimal external assistance. This would be achieved by
improving the villagers' skills in organization and goal-setting, technical
NRM planning and methods, and financial and administrative implementation of



- 31 -
the plan (para. 4.10). The monthly program of training of trainers to be
taken by the TSTs will be part of the skills development component and
delivered to the 15 members as the group.
4.05        At District and Regional levels. In the regions and  districts
(cercles) (para. 3.12b), project implementation would be supervised by three
Regional Coordinators and 10 District Coordinators, respectively. The Project
Coordinators would be staff from the Technical Departments of the MAEE who are
members of the Rural Development Sub-Commission of the Regional and Local
Development Committees (CRDs and CLDs). In order to ensure good acceptance of
the Project by technical and administrative staff at regional and district
levels, project coordinators would be designated by their colleagues in the
CRDs and CLDs before this choice is confirmed by the Minister of Agriculture.
Regional Coordinators will (a) manage the regional second generation special
accounts with the assistance of an accountant; (b) coordinate the project work
plan in the region with the activities carried out under the Regional
Development Committee; and (c) ensure full underst:nding and support of
project activities by the Regional Administrative Authorities (Governor).
Since they are closer to village operations, the District Coordinators will
(a) follow up and support the progress of TSTs in implementing Community NRM
Plans; (b) ensure effective coordination of the proposed project with the
Agricultural Services Project; and (c) facilitate communications between
project staff and members of the CLDs. Local coordinators will have special
responsibility for ensuring close coordination between the proposed project
and the NGOs. Since the villages to be covered by the Project will be
selected during project implementation (para. 4.20) together with the
respective TST, the District Coordinator will identify NGOs operating in the
area, assess their performance, and establish with them the procedures under
which they could be associated with the proposed project objectives and
activities, possibly by contracting out some of these NGOs to provide services
as suggested earlier (para 3.16d).
4.06         At National Level.  The project's Central Implementing and
Monitoring Unit (CIMU) will be led by a Project Director with the title of
Advisor to the Minister. Together with an administrative and financial
officer and a data processing specialist, the Project Director will be charged
with overall project implementation, including financial management,
procurement and reporting. The Project Director will be assisted by an
operation team of three (ecologist, trainer, monitoring specialist)
responsible for the assessment of proposed Community NRM Plans, delivery of
the training program, and monitoring of project impact. Although it is
acknowledged that such project implementing authorities have not always
performed satisfactorily, this option has been chosen for the proposed project
since: (a) it does not imply incremental recurrent costs; and (b) tasks which
will need to be continued after project completion (e.g., environmental
monitoring) will be transferred to a permanent unit to be developed (para.
4.07).   In view of the crucial role of the CIMU in project implementation,
the Project team will be required (e.g., in the context of the project launch
and annual team-building workshops) to identify dny additional measures that
may help strengthen the CIMU, given the major changes currently foreseen in
the institutional set-up of agricultural services in Mali. The Project
Director satisfactory to IDA was appointed prior to negotiations.



- 32 -
4.07        A National Environmental Monitoring Facility would be established
within the newly created Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department within
MAEE to provide the Government with monitoring data on the environment in
general, progress achieved with decentralisation and land tenure tests and
other on-going projects (para. 3.12e). During the Project mid-term review,
the Environmental Monitoring Facility would present an action plan for
implementing a National Environmental Information System (EIS). Since the
above-mentioned Directorate has yet to be implemented and, since its financial
management capacity (i.e., to manage the Project Special Account B) needs to
be developed (para. 4.31), special conditions have been agreed upon for the
disbursement of the component (para. 4.29c).
4.08        The Baoule National Park component will be implemented by the
existing Baoule National Park Authority (OPNBB) of the National Forestry
Directorate (DNE-,.  Resources provided by IDA for redelimitation of the Park,
and rehabilitation of existing park infrastructure (para. 3.11) would be
handled by the CIMU at the request of the DNEF. Realignment of park
boundaries is considered a precondition for IDA's involvement in the
conservation of the Baoule area together with UNDP. The adoption by the
Borrower of new boundaries for Baoule National Park, together with a statement
on its impact on the environment and indigenous people and the review of same
by IDA, would be a condition of disbursement (para. 6.03a).
4.09        Overall coordination of project activities would be the
responsibility of the Project National Coordinating Committee (PNCC) chaired
by the Minister of Agriculture and meeting at least twice a year. It would
include representatives from the MAEE's Technical Departments and other
ministries involved in natural resource management (para. 2.02). In addition
to clearance of the project's annual work plans and the review of its past
activities, the PNCC will seek to obtain full understanding of, agreement
with, and support for project activities on the part of all institutions
involved. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Borrower
shall establish for the duration of the Project, the Project National
Coordinating Committee (PNCC) with a composition and functions acceptable to
IDA (para. 6.01b).
B. ImDlementation of Project Components
4.10        Implementation of Community NRM Plans.  In accordance with the
Community Natural Resource Management approach (para. 2.13), the project's
technical support teams (TSTs) and extension agents would operate as follows:
(a)   Under the lead of the TST's communications/organization specialist
(para. 4.04), the first phase of intervention would aim at
building trust, establishing community NRM groups and sub-sectoral
groups (para. 4.02), and defining or agreeing on the community's
tentative objectives. This specialist would be responsible in
particular for following up and supporting local community land
tenure initiatives; no further activity should be started until
this step is completed. The key element here is time: this step
would take from a few weeks to several months, depending on the
communities' readiness for action.



- 33 -
(b)   During the second phase, the community NR1. specialist from the TST
would perform, together with the villagers, a baseline study of
the village area and extend the NRM planning methodology to the
villagers, with a view to setting up the first village operations
to be implemented. Such methodology includes the "testing
guidelines" to be used for selecting the technologieo most likely
to result in the cost-effective achievement of the community's
objectives. At this stage, the project's monitoring capacity
would be developed; the focus of the initial Community NRM Plan
could vary, depending on the situation, from a single limited
action to comprehensive programs involving entire production
systems and populations. The key element here is flexibility.
(c)   the financial and administrative specialist from the TST would
subsequently help the village to implement its Plan, providing
support for access to and management of funds, and procurement of
inputs and services. In addition, he will be responsible for
preparing disbursement requests and submitting them to the
Regional Coordinator. Moreover, the financial and administrative
specialist of the TST will monitor, on behalf of the Project, the
effective delivery of goods and works (including labor provided by
the villagers), contracted for the implementation of community NRM
plans.
4.11        The process described above is complex and time consuming.
Nevertheless, past experience (para. 2.05) has shown that community natural
resource management can achieve its objectives provided thatt (a) the
community NRM Plans are demand-driven and take into account essential
requirements (drinking water, health and education); (b) initial efforts are
made to address the villagers' land tenure security, even if this consists
initially of a "test approach"; (c) a comprehensive skills development program
sensitive to cultural differences is carried out; (d) the role of women is
acknowledged and encouraged; and (e) NGOs are associated whenever possible in
the process of popular participation. The foregoing elements need to be
executed in a coordinated manner.
4.12        Implementation of the Skills Development and Public Awareness
Component. Implementation of the proposed Project through adoption of the
community NRH approach calls for the acceptance of innovation on the part of
the beneficiaries, the technical and administrative staff involved, and the
public at large. Adopting this approach will require the acquisition of new
technical knowledge and skills very different from those presently available.
The success of such a project depends on intensive human resource development.
An interim training program will be in place at project launch (par. 4.14).
The strategy to be followed for this component will aim at adapting the
training program to the changing needs of the Project. It will include four
different steps to be carried out by different entities working in close
coordination (para. 3.15):
(a)   The first step of the program will aim to identify target groups
to be involved in the training program, and will be handled by the
CIMU's Training Specialist, with an eye to the problems identified
during project implementation. In addition to project staff (82),
these t3rget groups will be selected from among the different



- 34 _
community NRM and sub-sector groups (para. 4.02), technical and
administrative staff at the local, regional and national
government levels, and the public at large.
(b)   each group identified as requiring training would then be
subjected to a skills gap analysis' which, based on its present
profile and mandate, would pinpoint the missing skills to be
developed under the program; these might include very different
features, such as pure technical knowledge, operational
procedures, communications ability, etc. A particular procedure
would be followed to develop targeted public awareness campaigns.
(c)   skills development *modules* or training processes of various
durations would then be designed for each specific target group
and set of skills to be developed. These modules would be based
on effective participatory adult training techniques, including,
for instance, case studies, small group exercises, simulations
and, in the case of village communities, techniques of rapid rural
appraisal.
Cd)   once tested and adjusted, the "modules' would be delivered to
their intended target groups by specialized facilitators assistad
by qualified resource persons; in addition to the training of
trainers, to be provided fortnightly to extension agents and
monthly to TSTs (paras. 4.03 and 4.04), these modules would
include full-day village sensitization sessions, team building
workshops, short information seminars, national public awareness
campaigns, and others (para. 3.15b).
4.13        The skills gap analysis and module design would be subcontracted
to private training consulting firms. These firms would establish a database
of training resources available in Mali and its neighboring countries
(facilitators, resource persons, training facilities), which could be
contracted for implementation of the modules. A condition of effectiveness
would be the submission by the Borrower to IDA of bidding documents for
subcontracting the implementation of the skills development component of the
Project, satisfactory to IDA (para. 6.02b).
4.14         In order to have some of the target groups ready to operate at
the time of Credit effectiveness, an interim training program, including 3 to
6 workshops of 1 to 3 days each, would be implemented. This interim training
program would be a precursor of the several project-launching workshops to be
carried out at the time of project effectiveness, the cost of which is
included in the detailed cost tables of the component. The establishment of a
program proposal by the PNLCD Unit, supported by technical assistance from
GTZ, was a condition of negotiation which was fulfilled; the program will be
implemented during the fall of 1992, before the proposed project becomes
effective. Full advantage would be taken cf the experience gained by the
similar component of the Burkina Faso Environmental Management Project,
through the use of tested training packages and trainers with the best
performance records. The sharing of the resources and experience of both
projects would pave the way for the future establishment of a comprehensive
Srhelian NRM training program to be discussed and developed during the project
mid-term implementation review (para. 4.37).



- 35 -
4.15        Addressing the Gender Issue.  The proposed project would develop
and implement a strategy that would incorporate and enhance the importance of
women in natural resource management (para. 1.12). According to this
strategy, to be prepared at the beginning of project implementation by a
consultant (para. 3.16d), the gender issue would generally not be tackled
through separate components targeting women (although this might be relevant
in some circumstances). Instead, the issue would be dealt with by the entire
project staff in its day-to-day operations. Guidelines for project staff
would be established as part of the skills development program, and decisions
regarding the following subjects would be included in the Community NRM Plans
only after being discussed and accepted by the village women's sub-sectoral
groups (a) location and operation of water points; (b) land use planning
(agro forestry); (c) movement and management of livestock; and (d) choice,
location and operation of collective food-processing equipment (mills, oil
extraction plants).
4.16        In addition, measures would be taken under the Project to: (a)
encourage the establishment of village sub-sectoral groups of women (by TSTs);
(b) have these groups consulted on all important decisions concerning NRM
activities in the village (by project coordinators); (c) promote the
participation of women in training sessions and meetings organized under the
proposed project (by the CIMU training specialist); (d) have the CIMU
decentralization specialist pay special attention to the gender issue in land
tenure (para. 4.17); and (e) recruit women, where possible, as technical
staff, especially at village level, to provide extension services (para.
3.12). The monitoring of the project's achievements in dealing with the
gender issue would be the responsibility of the training specialist from the
CIMU (para. 4.06), periodically assisted by local consultants (para. 3.16d),
and using the project indicators included in Annex 9.
4.17        Implementing the Proiect's Approach to the Land Tenure Issue.
Following studies and seminars carried out under the Mali - Ag SECAL supported
by CILSS/Club du Sahel and the CCCE, and in line with the Government's
decentralization policy (para. 2.03), the approach to land tenure does not aim
to adjust existing Codes and Laws in a top-down fashion, but rather to pursue
the following strategy:
(a)   Villagers willing to deal with land tenure issues in their area
would be helped by resource persons (para. 3.16d) who would,
together with the land users, review current land tenure
practices, paying special attention to gender-related issues which
could require further amendments to rights of inheritance and
usufruct. This assistance would be provided by locally-recruited
resource persons having knowledge of the subject and the respect
of the community, who would conclude the review by making
practical recommendations to technical and administrative
authorities likely to improve the community's security of access
to natural resources. In areas where there are overlapping
grazing rights between sedentary villagers and seasonal
transhumant herders, special attention would be paid to the
acknowledgement by villagers of all well established seasonal
grazing rights. This would be a condition of assistance by the
Project and of the implementation of further steps;



- 36 -
(b)   subject to prior review by the technical and administrative
authorities, at regional and district levels, the recommendations
envisaged by a given community would thereafter be tested for a
fixed period of time; and
(c)   following close monitoring of the land tenure tests by the CIMU
and the local authorities, the experience gained from those tests
would be fully assessed during the Project's mid-term review
(para. 4.37); a decision would then be taken either to discontinue
the operation, to adjust it, or to formalize it; in this case, the
test could be used for the further amendment of land tenure
regulations. A co-4ition of effectiveness would be that the
Borrower would has furnished proof, satisfactory to IDA, that the
land tenure arrangements to be tested under the Project can be
effectively implemented within the framework of current laws and
regulations (6.02c).
4.18        Staff Recruitment.  Staff recruitment would be phased according to
a staffing plan agreed upon during negotiations. While the Project Director
was appointed before the negotiations (para. 4.06), three specialists would be
recruited before effectiveness and the recruitment of the remaining CITU
staff, Regional and Local Coordinators, and Technical Supporting Teams would
start immediately after credit effectiveness; the recruitment of additional
extension agents would follow the phasing of village incorporation.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations on a staffing plan, including
transfers and new hirings, and an implementation timetable (para. 6.01c). A
condition of effectiveness would be the implementation of the staffing plan in
a manner satisfactory to IDA and the provision to the Borrower of a shortlist
of candidates for key Project posts to be fulfilled immediately after
effectiveness (para. 6.02d).
4.19        Recruitment for positions under the credit would be publicized and
open to private, NGO and Government staff willing to separate from
administrative service. Terms of Reference (included in the Project
Implementation Volume), minimal requirements and conditions of selection would
be agreed between IDA and the Administrative and Financial Department (DAF) of
the MAEE. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that for purposes of
implementing the Project, the Borrower would employ and maintain staff with
qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to
IDA (para. 6.01d). In order to ensure effective staffing at the highest
level, selection mechanisms, such as "assessment centers," could be
implemented with the participation of IDA staff. The level of remuneration
would be commensurate with the temporary nature of the contract, but should
not result in a disincentive to Government officers with similar
qualifications and responsibilities.
4.20        Village Participation.  The selection of rural communities to take
part in the Project would be undertaken on a voluntary basis by each CLD with
the assistance of the project TST. The chief criteria for selection would
include, for the initial phase of the Project: (a) existing coverage of the
village concerned by the Agricultural Services Project, with an extension
agent posted; (b) the existence of a locally acknowledged effective village
leader; (c) an established record of the 041!:-e community's actions in
tackling land and natural resource management; (d) proven capacity to



- 37 -
implement communal development activities; and (e) absence of any major
litigation or disputes within the community or with neighboring communities.
4.21        The phasing of village participation (Annex 7) has to take into
account:  (a) the initial phase of project implementation, lasting up to 6
months, during which the villagers will hardly be involved at all in project
activities; (b) the ensuing period of "breaking in" field staff to the project
community NRM planning procedures; and (c) the fact that community NRM Plans
will tpke at least between two and three years to be completed.  In addition,
the phasing of village participation would be designed to avoid major problems
due to unforeseen obstacles.  Should it become obvious at the mid-term review
(para. 4.37) that the program should be discontinued, and that the Project
should not be renewed, the Community NRM Plans set up by the villages
incorporated during PY1, PY2 and PY3 (Annex 7) (estimated to reach 90
villages) would be fully implemented by project completion in PY5.  In this
case, no additional village would be approached.  In the most probable case,
however, where a commitment could be taken during the mid-term review in favor
of a follow-up, 60 additional villages would be incorporated during PY4 and
PY5. The villages to be incorporated in the Project during PY1 would not
necessarily be spread among the 11 districts of the Project area. For
effective program support, the strategy to be pursued will concentrate on
three to four focal areas where several neighboring villages would be covered
simultaneously.
C. Coordination With Other Proiects and Programs
4.22        The proposed Project would be closely coordinated with other
ongoing projects and programs, either similar or complementary. This
coordination which would not be limi:ed to projects indicated below would be
the responsibility of the Project's Regional and District Coordinators (para.
4.05). This would be done to establish effective linkages with all projects
and NGOs operating within its area of intervention. Such coordination would
aim to:
(a)   take advantage of the experience gained bys IDA projects nearing
completion (para. 1.19), and the GTZ technical assistance project
(para. 2.04);
(b)   build on the facilities and services (staff, equipment) available
at field level: Agricultural Services Project (para. 4.23); and
(c)   ensure that the village communities covered by the proposed
Project have access to the services and inputs provided by these
projects: IDA's Second Health, Population & Rural Water Supply
Project, (para. 4.25); Food for Work provided by the FAO World
Food Program, when required.
4.23        Agricultural Services Proiect.  The objectives of both projects
&re mutually complementarys while the agricultural services project extends
productive technologies to be mostly implemented within individual
agricultural plots, and in livestock operations, the proposed project would,
in addition, concentrate on the sustainable exploitation of collective
rangeland and forests; implementation of these two projects would therefore be
closely coordinated, resulting in complete integration of staff (extension



- 38 -
agents, AVVs) and activities at the village level (para. 4.03). The
fortnightly training of the AVVW would be provided simultaneously by subject
matter specialists from the Agricultural Services Project and staff of the
proposed project's Technical Support Teams (para. 4.04). The schedule of
village visits by AVVs and field interventions by TST staff would be set up
jointly during the AVVsB fortnightly training period. Since the two projects
are both implemented under the MAEE, an agreement would be concluded between
their respective implementing entities, outlining the modalities of their
coordination. A condition of effectiveness would be the establishment of a
contractual arrangement satisfactory to IDA between the CIMU and the
Directorate of Agriculture on the coordination of the two projects at the
central, regional and local levels (para 6.02e).
4.24        Mopti Area (MADP) and Forestry Development (OAPF) Proiects.  These
two projects, co-financed by IDA and the CCCE, with a Norwegian contribution,
are being implemented in the 5th and 2nd regions respectively (Map 2). They
will be continued until FY93. This continuation will allow the PNLCD
Monitoring Unit (para. 2.04) to coordinate activities that could be highly
beneficial to further implementation of the proposed project. These would
include: (a) testing rangeland and forestry management technologies prior to
project implementation; (b) initiating the land tenure testing approach in
agro-pastoral and sylvo-pastoral systems; (c) supplying the proposed project
with selected skilled staff, available at the completion of these projects;
and (d) preparing and implementing the interim training program to be held
before project implementation (para. 4.14).
4.25        IDA's Second Health. Ponulation and Rural Water Supply Project.
This Project (para. 1.21) is expected to become effective during the first
semester of 1992. Its area of action is similar to that of the proposed
project. Following discussions between the PNLCD Monitoring Unit and the
Health Project's implementing agency, it was agreed that, provided villages
guarantee a good level of organization and commitment (which is a prerequisite
for the implementation of Community NRM Plans), the participants in the
proposed project would result in insuring priority attention from the Health
Project with services such as construction and equipment of community health
centers, family planning education, and drinking water supply.
4.26        Compagnie Malienne tour le D4veloppement des Textiles (CMDT).  Two
test zones have been established by the PNLCD Monitoring Unit in the districts
of Koutiala and Kadiolo (Third Region, where the Agricultural Services Project
is not being implemented). This operation is funded by a Norwegian grant, as
part of the preparation phase for the proposed project (para. 2.06). Since
these interventions require three to four years to be completed, their follow-
up would be carried out by the CMDT/Pterroir' management program currently
operating in the Third Region.
4.27        Permanent Inter-State Committee for Drought Control in the Sahel
(CILSS) and Club du Sahel. There are four areas of common interest between
the proposed project and CILSS/Club du Sahel in which close coordination would
be beneficial to both. These are: (a) decentralization and popular
participation; (b) land tenure, a field in which coordination has already been
effective with the Mali - Ag SECAL (para. 4.17); (c) implementation of the
community NRM approach; and (d) the gender issue. In order to strengthen the
Project implementation and to share experience gained, the following actions



- 39-
will be taken: (a) sharing with the Club du Sahel information generated by the
Project (activity reports, working papers, consultant reports); (b) scheduling
project events (supervision mission, annual reviews) aimed at facilitating the
participation of CILSS/Club du Sahel staff; and (c) promoting project
participation in the activities (meetings, regional studies) of CILSS/Club du
Sahel in the four areas of common interest identified above.
D. Monitorina and Evaluation
4.28        Careful monitoring of the proposed project is needed to help
decision-makers obtain quick and regular feedback on implementation progress,
and to make rapid adjustments whenever required. Because of the grassroots
nature of the proposed project and its bottom-up approach, details on the
exact location, type and number of investments at field level cannot be known
before agreeing on Community NRM Plans (para. 3.07). The Project is
inherently flexible, which makes the role of process monitoring far more
important, and also more difficult, than simply assessing the implementation
of prescribed plans.
4.29        Three areas would be the focus of intensive monitoring during
project implementation. Project monitoring would be carried out using key
indicators noted in Annex 9, which have been discussed during negotiations:
(a)   Monitoring of proiect implementation, (staffing, disbursements,
and achievement of objectives), using agreed indicators, would be
performed and recorded by the CIMU's administrative and financial
officer; these indicators are listed in Annex 9.  Agreements were
reached at negotiations on these indicators (para. 6.01e). The
establishment of a project operations monitoring system
satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness (para.
6.02f);
(b)   Monitorina of the proiect's socioeconomic and phyto-ecological
impact would be the responsibility of the CIMU's project impact
monitoring specialist, who would process data established by the
TST, working in close coordination with members of the relevant
village sub-sectoral groups. Socioeconomic data will be collected
on a monthly basis by specialized surveyors from the Agricultural
Services Project. Performance in the area of skills development
and the progress achieved in addressing the gender issue would be
assessed by the training specialist;
(c)   Environmental Information System:  the three-member Environmental
Monitoring facility located in the MAEE's Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation Department (para. 4.07) would lay the groundwork for a
future Environmental Information System (EIS), assist ongoing
projects and programs in establishing their own impact monitoring
programs, and create a forum for exchanging experiences in the
areas of natural resource management, decentralization, and land
tenure. Conditions of disbursement for this component will be (i)
the establishment by the Borrower of a national entity charged
with planning, monitoring and evaluating desertification control
and NRM, with a degree of independance and authority satisfactory
to IDA; (ii) furnishing IDA with an organizational chart and a



- 40 -
work plan satisfactory to IDA, and (iii) developing an
administrative and financial unit satisfactory to IDA to manage
the Special Account (6.03b).
E. Financial Management, Accounting and Audits
4.30        Proiect Management and Accounting.  A computerized management and
accounting system would be established under the CIMU by consultants funded by
the Project (para. 3.16d). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that for
all expenditures for which withdrawals from the Credit account were made on
the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall (a) maintain
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (b) retain for at least one
year all records evidencing such expenditures; (c) enable IDA's
representatives to examine such records and (d) ensure that such records and
accounts are included in the annual audit, and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion as to whether the SOEs can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals (para. 6.01f). In order to facilitate
implementation of the component, an accounting procedures manual would be
established by the above-mentioned consultant. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that not later than September 30, 1992, the Borrower would
hire a consultant with terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to IDA
to set up and operate the project's computerized management and accounting
system, prepare an accounting procedures manual, and train the accountants for
the Project (para. 6.0lg). A condition of effectiveness would be the setting
up of the accounting and financial management system of the Project (para.
6.02g).
4.31        Special Account and Second Generation Special Accounts (SGSAs).
The Project will be granted two Special Accounts: Special Account A, for the
financing of project implementation, excluding the National Environmental
Monitoring Facility, and Special Account B for the financing of the National
Environmental Monitoring Facility. Immediately after Credit effectiveness,
IDA would make an initial deposit in Special Account A of US$ 1 million,
representing about four months' expenditures (para. 3.32) and, after
conditions of disbursement have been met satisfactorily (para 4.29c), IDA
would make an initial deposit of US$100,000 in Special Account B. SGSAs would
be opened for each of the three regions covered by the Project -- Kayes,
Sikasso and Mopti. These SGSAs would be operated under the responsibility of
the project's Regional Coordinators, assisted by an accountant recruited by
the Project (para. 4.05). The initial deposit would be US$100,000, drawn from
Special Account A. Replenishment of the SGSAs from Special Account A would be
effected by the CIMU upon receipt of all documented expenses as approved by
the respective Regional Coordinators, the project's Regional Accountant and
the Project Director. Special Accounts A and B and the three Second
Generation Special Accounts will be audited annually.
4.32        Disbursement Procedure for Village Investments.  This would be
based on an agreement to be concluded between the village, represented by the
leader of the village NRM group, a representative of the Local Government, and
the project team (represented locally by the Administrator in the TST). This
agreement would indicate the different expenditures incurred by implementation
of the Community NRM Plan; the detailed budget and corresponding financing
scheme would indicate the respective contributions of the village, the project
funds, and other sources of funds when available. The agreement would also



- 41 -
indicate the disbursement rate necessary to launch the actions. It would show
clearly the amount of social and productive investments, which should be under
or equal to 30 percent, and the villagers' contribution (cash and labor),
which should be equal to or above 25 percent of the total village investment.
4.33        Once this agreement is signed by those three partners, procedures
for the procurement of works, goods and services required for the
implementation of the agreement will be followed by the District Coordinator
assisted by the Administrator of the TST. Together with his Regional
Accountant, the Regional Coordinator will issue payments drawn on the second
generation special account, based upon contracts, invoices and other
supporting documents. Any further disbursements would be checked against that
agreement and effected on the basis of SOEs and/or supporting documents. The
agreements, with their corresponding SOEs and supporting documents, would be
compiled and sent to the CIMU by each regional project accountant for
replenishment from the Special Account. In any case, a report on the Second
Generation Special Accounts and the status of the contract disbursements with
corresponding SOEs and supporting documents would be sent every two months by
each of the three Regional Accountants to the Project Director.
4.34        In order to facilitate project implementation by all actors
involved, and particularly the establishment, implementation and monitoring of
the agreed Community NRM Plans, a manual of simple guidelines and forms
(procedures manual) would be provided by the CIMU at the beginning of the
Project. The manual would include standard agreement forms, instructions
concerning the minimum village contribution, types of investments or actions
eligible for project funds, the amount of project funds available for the
"illage, guidance on disbursement rates, guidance for access to other sources
of funds, and standard disbursement and contract forms.   A condition of
effectiveness would be the production of a procedures manual satisfactory to
IDA concerning the preparation, negotiation and implementation of the
Community NRM Plans, including guidelines for village land tenure assessment,
covering (i) the assessment proper, and (ii) how land tenure arrangements to
be carried out under the Community NRM plans should be processed with local
authorities (para. 6.02h).
4.35        External Audits.  The Administrative and Financial Officer of the
CIMU would maintain all project-related records and accounts, and would have
these audited annually by independent external auditors acceptable to IDA.
All disbursements against SOEs, the two Special Accounts and the three Second
Generation Special Accounts would be audited separately. The project accounts
will be maintained in accordance with sound and internationally recognized
accounting principles and practices satisfactory to IDA. The accounting unit
will provide interim and annual financial statements to reflect the financial
performance and position of the Project. An auditor's opinion and reports
satisfactory to IDA on such statements will be provided within six months of
the close of the fiscal year. The auditor's report will include a statement
on the adequacy or otherwise of the accounting system and internal controls,
the reliability of statements of expenditures as a basis for Credit
disbursements, and compliance with financial covenants.   Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that (a) the records and accounts (Special Accounts
and Second Generation Special Accounts) will be audited for each fiscal year,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA (b) the Borrower will furnish to the



- 42 -
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested and (c) the Borrower will furnish to the Association
such other information concerning such records, accounts and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request (para. 6.01h).
During negotiations, the Malian delegation submitted a short list of auditing
firms to IDA for approval, while the appointment of an auditing firm
acceptable to IDA to audit project accounts based upon a one-year
automatically renewable contract, except in the case of poor performances will
be a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.02i). Also, a condition of
effectiveness would be that outstanding audits of the Mopti Area Development
Project (Cr. 1597-MLI), Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2163-MLI)
and Office du Niger II (Cr. 1906-MLI) overdue since December 31, 1991, for the
first one, and March 31, 1992, for the two others, have been provided to the
satisfaction of IDA (para. 6.02j).
F. Supervision and Mid-term Review
4.36        Proiect Supervision.  Supervision would be approached in close
collaboration with other donor agencies to ensure consistency among the
different parallel financing. One joint donor supervision mission would
therefore be scheduled each year at the time of the annual review round table.
In addition, other supervision missions would be carried out jointly or in a
concerted manner with other co-financing agencies. Supervision of the
Project's financial management, accounting and auditing follow-up would be
undertaken as a separate exercise. Supervision missions would involve, in
addition to the task managers, experts possessing the different skills and
experience required for assessing the progress of project implementation in
financial management, popular participation, women in development, training,
and the environment, in accordance with the tentative schedule attached at
Annex 8. In view of the high supervision input that will be required for
effective implementation of this "process-oriented, project, such input will
be clearly indicated in the Departmental CAM, including that provided by
field-based Bank staff. In order to draw on the World Bank's ongoing
experiences in the area of popular participation, the proposed project will be
included in the 20 selected participatory projects currently being monitored
by the popular participation core group of sociologists and developers; this
will result in stronger project supervision in the future, and will also make
the achievements of this project known to others. Assurances were reached
during negotiations that each year, by December 31 at the latest, the Borrower
will convene a project implementation review meeting with IDA, other co-
financiers and regional and local authorities to review and approve the PNCC
recommendations regarding project implementation (para. 6.01i). Such
implementation review meetings would be of particular importance in the case
of the proposed project, where, as noted in para. 3.07, village-level
investments (amounting to half of the Credit) would be chosen during project
implementation. Investments included in a NRH Plan for a given year will be
included in the work program to be drawn up for the following annual project
review meeting to facilitate monitoring of implementation during subsequent
years.
4.37        Mid-Term Review.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that:



- 43 -
(a)   The borrower and IDA conduct, not later .han December 31, 1995, a
mid-term Project Implementation Review to: (i) monitor progress of
project implementation according to which preliminary decisions
will be made on further continuation of the Program (para. 4.21);
(ii) assess the experience gained under land tenure arrangements,
aiming at setting up a time-bound Action Plan to be agreed,
including steps to replace, modify or implement the existing land
tenure framework (para. 4.17c); (iii) evaluate performances of the
national Environmental Monitoring Facility, and review the
proposed EIS to be further developed by IDA and/or other donors
(para. 4.29c); (iv) the Baoule National Park Management Plan to be
prepared in the beginning of the Project would be assessed and
additional investments could be supplied under separate channels
(GEF funding envisaged by UNDP) (para. 3.11d); and (v) the
training component would be evaluated by an external entity,
aiming at a possible merger of similar programs to be carried out
at sub regional level (para. 4.14);
(b)   Not later than four weeks prior to such review, the Borrower shall
furnish to IDA for its review and comments a report in such detail
as IDA shall reasonably request, including: (i) an evaluation of
progress achieved in project implementation by the Borrower in
general, and by its Central, Regional and Local agencies, in
particular, in accordance with the provisions of the respective
implementation agreements, (ii) a draft action program to be
carried out until the completion of the Project, focussed on the
components stressed above; and
(c)   Promptly after completing the mid-term review, carry out those
recommendations arising out of the said review as agreed by the
Borrower and IDA (para. 6.01j).
G. Environmental Impact
4.38        The broad objective of the Project is to halt and reverse the
process of natural resource degradation in order to secure sustainable
agricultural growth, enhance biodiversity and ecological stability, and
achieve sustainable forest and wildlife management. The proposed project is
clearly intended to have a positive impact on the environment, but any program
aiming simultaneously at enhancing production and protecting the natural
resource base can have potential negative impacts: these must be foreseen, and
provision for their mitigation must be incorporated in the implementation
plan. Such risks include, for instance, water pollution by fertilizers, loss
of biodiversity due to land clearance, soil erosion resulting from intensive
tillage practices, and rangeland degradation due to overgrazing. In addition,
the reorganization of activities at the village level could disrupt sound
traditional practices that have long been in use.
4.39        The potential negative environmental impacts have been recognized
in the project design, and adequate provision has been made for environmental
monitoring.  Assessment and monitoring of the project's environmental impact
will be the responsibility of the project impacc monitoring specialist in the
Central Implementing and Monitoring Unit (para. 4.06); this specialist will



- 44 -
monitor the impacts of specific environmental improvements and assess the
suitability of new techniques to be adopted. A monitoring program will also
be set up by the National Environmental Monitoring Facility, which will
monitor environmental change in the ecological zones covered by the Project in
comparison to changes in control zones not covered by the Project and in
conservation areas such as Baoule National Park. These monitoring programs
will be able to detect any negative trends during implementation and propose
immediate corrective measures, Working Paper No. 6 on the project's
environmental analysis procedure will be part of the Project Implementation
Volume.



- 45 -
V.  PROJECT BENEFITS. RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY
A. Benefits
5.01        A 1990 World Bank study entitled "Economic Issues in Renewable
Natural Resource Management" examined the empirical evidence on the
profitability of techniques to improve natural resource management. The study
concluded that: (a) many techniques are economically viable, although their
financial profitability is less obvious; (b) there are enough economically
viable techniques to provide a menu of options to clients in each agro-
ecological zone; but (c) further adaptive research is required to refine the
techniques and tailor them more closely to local circumstances. The empirical
work from which the above conclusions were drawn was almost invariably based
on a before/after analysis, by comparing the costs and benefits of the
resource management improvement techniques against the initial situation. But
the initial situation is not static; a with/without analysis to determine
incremental net benefits would have to take into account resource degradation
and declining land productivity in the "without" case. The measurement
problems are so difficult that a true with/without analysis has seldom been
attempted. The above conclusions, therefore, understate the net benefits of
resource management improvement techniques.
5.02        Given the scope of the project's expected results, it would
substantially benefit the quality of life of most of the 95,000 people living
in the region. Project benefits would be particularly significant in the
following areas:
(a)   improving agriculture, forestry and livestock production
performance in the project area. The establishment and
implementation of improved sustainable production practices would
contribute to a better standard of living and quality of life for
the villagers concerned;
(b)   in the area of human resources, in addition to the impact of its
skills development and public awareness programs, the Project
would contribute to the empowerment of local communities, to the
creation of local management capabilities, and to the
acknowledgement and enhancement of the role of women in the
management of natural resources;
(c)   the overall benefit of the Project in terms of the environment and
natural resources would be the restoration of ecological stability
and the introduction of a sustainable land use system which would
balance production against resource consumption;
(d)   for those Community NRM Plans that would include high proportions
of labor-intensive land and water conservation works, labor
exceeding the 25 per cent beneficiaries' contribution would ba
remunerated, raising employment levels during the dry season, when
there are few opportunities for productive agricultural activity;
and
(e)   local communities around Baoule National Park would benefit from
direct employment by the Park (park patrol personnel) and indirect



- 46 -
tourism-related activities (tour guides, tourist camps, safari
hunting) and from the planned management of the Park's surrounding
areas and buffer zones.
5.03         Environment and resource management experiences would be
available for extension to other parts of Mali not covered by the Project.
Mali's capacity to maintain and assess the environment, resource use, and
long- and short-term trends would be firmly established. The preservation of
Mali's biodiversity for future generations would be assured through the sound
management of Baoule National Park by the local population. The Project would
lay an excellent foundation for the development of a National Environmental
Action Plan for Mali.
B. Risks
5.04        In such a project, the following are the major risks:
(a)   a possible drop in the degree of political commitment shown by the
Government, particularly in the MAEE. However, the strong
commitment of the Malian Administration to the decentralization
policy and the firm support provided by other donors give definite
grounds for hope;
(b)   insufficient understanding and poor implementation of the
community natural resource management approach, since it requires
skills very different from those involved in conventional top-down
practices. In addiXion, implementation of the project strategy
would result in a certain shifting of power and authority that not
all political (or even technical) staff are ready to accept; and
(c)   institutionally, the Central Implementing and Monitoring Unit may
lack authority, which might undermine its role of building up a
national capacity to coordinate the strategies of various partners
involved in natural resource management.
5.05        The following actions will be taken to minimize the above-
mentioned riskst
(a)   together with other donors and within the framework of the Mali -
Ag SECAL, IDA will monitor ongoing administrative reforms and
encourage those measures likely to contribute most effectively to
administrative decentralization and local participation;
(b)   project implementation will be the subject of close and well-
focused supervision intended to identify and address disruptions
as soon as they occur, inter alia through the training program;
and
(c)  IDA, with the other donors, will monitor future developments with
a view to addressing environmental issues comprehensively,
possibly within the framework of a National Environmental Action
Plan (NEAP).



- 67 -
C. Proiect Sustainabilit,
5.06        The development and implementation of the land tenure law will be
critical to future sustainability of the Project. During the Project mid-term
review, the Borrower and the Association will assess the experience gained
under land tenure arrangements, with a view to defining a mutually agreed
action plan, including measures to replace, modify or implement the existing
land tenure framework. Moreover, if the NRM programs are successful as
anticipated, the village NRM Groups will continue to implement them in the
future, using their own resources, whilst the technical back-up services
provided by Government will be ensured in the context of the regular functions
of extension work in agriculture, health and education.



- 48 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01        Assurances were obtained durina neaotiations that:
(a)   procurement of the goods, works and consultant services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit will take place in accordanc* with procedures satisfactory
to IDA (para. 3.28);
(b)   th,. Borrower shall establish and maintain for the duration of the
Project, the Project National Coordinating Committee (PNCC) with a
composition and function acceptable to the Association (p3ra.
4.09);
(c)   a staffing plan was drawn up for the Project, indicating staff to
be transferred within the MAEE and staff to be contracted, and the
schedule of implementation (para. 4.18);
'd)   the Borrower shall, for purposes of carrying out the Project,
emplay and maintain staff with qualifications, experience, terms
and conditions of employment all satisfactory to the Association
(para. 4.19);
(e)   agreement was reached on the nature and measuring standards of
indicators to be used to monitor project achievements (para.
4.29a);
Cf)   for all expenditures for which withdrawals from the Credit account
are to be made on the basis of SOEs, the Borrower shall (i)
maintain records and accounts reflecting such expenditures, (ii)
retain for at least one year all records evidencing such
expenditures, (iii) enable IDA's representatives to examine such
records and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit (para. 4.30);
Cg)   the Borrower will hire a consultant no later than September 30,
1992, with terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to
IDA, to set up and operate the project's computerized management
and accounting system, prepare an accounting procedures manual and
train project accountants (para. 4.30);
(h)   (i) the records and accounts (Special Accounts and Second
Generation Special Accounts) will be audited for each fiscal year
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles, consistently
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) the Borrower will furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested and (iii) the Borrower will
furnish to the Association such other information concernin& such
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request (para. 4.35);



- 49 -
(i)   each year, not later than December 31 at the latest, the Borrower
will convene a project implementation review meeting with IDA,
other co-financiers and regional and local authorities, to review
and approve the PNCC recommendations regarding project
implementation (para. 4.36); and
(j)   (a)  the Borrower and the Association shall conduct, no later than
December 31, 1995, a mid-term project implementation review to:
(i) monitor progress of project implementation; (ii) assess the
experience gained under land tenure arrangements, with a view to
defining ar. action plan to be agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Association, including measures to replace, modify or
implement the existing land tenure framework; (iii) evaluate
performance of the national Environmental Monitoring Team and
review the EIS to be proposed by the Borrower; (iv) assess the
Baoule National Park management plan; and (v) evaluate the
implementation of training programs; (b) no later than six weeks
prior to such review, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association for its review and comments a report in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, including: (i) an
evaluation of progress achieved in project implementation by the
Borrower in general, and by its central, regional and local
agencies, in particular; (ii) a draft action program for the
completion of the Project; (c) promptly after completing the
mid-term review, the recommendations of the said review shall be
carried out agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association
(para. 4.37).
6.02        Conditions of effectiveness will be that:
(a)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association a detailed
Procurement Plan except for village local investments, with
timetables satisfactory to the Association (para. 3.25);
(b)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association bidding documents
for subcontracting the implementation of the skills development
component of the project, satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.13);
(c)   the Borrower has furnished proof to IDA's satisfaction that the
land tenure arrangements to be tested under the Project can be
effectively implemented within the framework of current laws and
regulations (4.17c);
(d)   the implementation of the staffing plan for the Project
satisfactory to IDA has been completed and a short list of
candidates for key Project posts to be fulfilled immediately after
jffectiveness has been supplied by the Borrower (para. 4.18);
(e)   contractual arrangements satisfactory to IDA have been concluded
between the Project CIMU and the Directorate of the Agricultural
Services Project on the coordination of the two projects at the
central, regional and local levels (para. 4.23);



- 50 -
(f)   an operations monitoring system satisfactory to IDA has been
established for the Project (para. 4.29a);
(g)   the accounting and financial management system of the Project
satisfactory to IDA has been put in place (para. 4.30);
(h)   a procedures manual satisfactory to IDA has been established
concerning the preparation, negotiation and implementation of
community NRM plans, including guidelines for village land tenure
assessment, covering (i) the assessment proper and (ii) how land
tenure arrangements to be carried out under Community NRM plans
should be processed with local authorities (para. 4.34);
(i)   the Borrower has appointed an auditing firm acceptable to the
Association to audit the project accounts, based upon a one year
automatically renewable contract, except in the case of poor
performance (para. 4.35); and
Cj)   outstanding audits of Mopti Area Development Project (Cr. 1597-
MLI), Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2163-MLI) and
Office du Niger II (Cr. 1906-MLI) overdue since December 31, 1991,
for the first one and March 31, 1992 for the two others have been
provided to the satisfaction of IDA (para. 4.35).
6.03        Conditions of disbursement will be that
(a)   no withdrawals shall be made for expenses incurred under the
Baoule National Park component until new park boundaries
satisfactory to the Association have been adopted by the Borrower,
and a statement on its impact on the environment and indigeneous
people has been reviewed (para. 4.08); and
(b)   no withdrawal shall be made for expenses incurred under the
National Environmental Monitoring Team until the Borrower has (i)
established a national entity charged with planning, monitoring
and evaluating desertification control and NRM, with a degree of
independance and authority satisfactory to IDA; (ii) supplied IDA
with an organizational chart and a work plan aiming for the
creation of an environment information system satisfactory to IDA
and (iii) developped an administrative and financial unit
satisfactory to IDA to manage Special Account B (para. 4.29c).
6.04        Recommendation.  Subject to the above assurances and conditions,
the Project is suitable for a credit of US$20.4 million equivalent to the
Government of Mali on standard terms, with 40 years maturity.
hal .jcb



-51-
ANNEX 1
Page I of 3
MALI
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGENT
A STRATEGY FOR COMMUNITY LEVEL OPERATIONS
I.    INTRODUCTION
This Annex summarizes an operational strategy for preparing and
implementing community level development and natural resource management plans.
A more detailed description of the strategy can be found in Working Paper No. 1
included in the Project Implementation Volume.
The strategy is based on a decentralized, multisectoral, participative
approach. As the details of project investment are to be decided by the local
communities, it is not possible to pre-determine specific physical goals.
Project activities in each intervention zone will be selected by communities from
a "menu" of possible interventions aimed at improving production, providing
better infrastructure and services, and ensuring better natural resource
management   (list in Annex 3, and detailed features in Working Paper No. 8
included in the Project Implementation Volume).
The process described here is not a finely developed, rigid procedure.
Local modifications are essential and should be encouraged so that the specific
agro-ecological and socio-economic conditions of different areas may be taken
into account.
II.   THE STRATEGY
The strategy aims to help plan and implement durable local development and
land management activities at the community level. A key element, indeed a
precondition for success, is the allocation of authority and responsibility to
communities for their own development and land management. The strategy links
economic production, social infrastructure development, and sustainable resource
management through a community NRM plan and implementation contract.
There are eight basic steps in implementing the strategy:
(i)   Fulfillment of essential pre-conditions.  These include a strong,
visible, and effective high level support for the strategy,
including appropriate national policy and legal framework; effective
local and regional institutions (Village NRHM and subsectoral groups,
technical support teams, etc.) with the mandate and manpower to
carry out ; and an appropriate level of awareness and concern.



-52-
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
(ii) A participative survey of local natural resource problems and needs
should be undertaken by specially trained members of the support
team. Using traditional, local concepts the community describes
the resources of their "terroir" and identifies key problems and
needs.   The perspective of sub-sectoral groups such as women,
landless, and children need to be included in the analysis.
(iii)  Identification of local goals, and the skllls and resources
available to achieve them. This, once agaLn, is undertaken by the
community itself with particular attention being given to, firstly,
aspects related to the quality of life (income security, social
values, health, education, water supply, communications, etc.) and
secondly production and economic goals (crop, livestock, forestry
production, employment, etc.).
(iv)   Preparation of Village Natural Resource management plan.  This will
initially be a relatively simple document, that can be developed in
depth and complexity as need and capacity demand.   It would be
based on the results of the two previous phases (sections ii and
iii) and should include components concerned with production,
infrastructure development and natural resource management.  The
plan should indicate which activities would be undertaken by the
community itself, and which would require external assistance;
either financial or technical. The plan should cover a two-year
period, but should be regularly reviewed and updated.
(v)    A review of the suitability of the Plan should be undertaken before
launching  implementation.    The  review  should  include:    an
evaluation of potential environmental impact; an identification of
weak links; an analysis of cause and effect, to make sure that
fundamental problems and simple symptoms are being tackled; a
calculation of the marginal benefits to the population; an analysis
of the plan's sustainability and energy requirements; a review of
the role of, and benefits to women in the plan; and, finally, an
assessment of the plan's social and cultural impact.
(vi)   Neeotiation of a development and land management contract between
the community and the program would follow the review. The roles
and responsibility of both parties would be clearly defined, as
would a time table for action, and details nf the specific steps to
be undertaken by each side.   It is to be expected that the
community's contribution will be mainly in the form of labor,
agreements to control the use of certain resources and areas, and
some finance.   The program's contribution would be principally
training, technical advice, and finance.
(vii)  Implementation would follow the negotiations.  The majority of
the work would initially be undertaken by the communities
themselves, with only a limited amount of work being contracted
out.



-53-
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
(viii) Evaluation and Adjustment will be undertaken on a regular basis
throughout implementation. Careful reviews of progress, by both
technicians and the community, will lead to modifications and
adjustments to the plan and the agreement.  The methodology used in
this whole process, as described in this paper, should also be
subjected to review and modification.
III. THE CONSTRAINTS
The strategy presented in this paper is new. A significant constraint
during the early years of implementation will therefore be lack of experienced
and trained practitioners. While pre-implementation training programs can help
to a certain extent, it will also be important to ensure that program goals are
kept to a realistic level.
Other potential constraints include: i) problems with village selection
and failure to develop rigorous criteria that ensure that only suitable, Iready,I
villages are involved in the program; ii) failure to ensure the full array of
concerns and points of view in the community are taken into account; iii)
administrative constraints blocking the flow of funds and hence the program's
ability to deliver timely and effective services; iv) failure of the Project to
secure sufficiently flexible funding that enables to respond to the widest range
of locally identified priority needs.
IV.   MONITORING AND EVALUATION
The program has no previously determined, precise physical goals.  The
essence of the strategy demands this. It will therefore be very important to
develop an effective M&E system that provides information on three levels.
Firstly, the operational efficiency of program operations should be monitored to
ensure that staff and financial resources are being correctly used.   This
requires a standard system of financial audit, management review, and assessment
of pre3ect implementation. Secondly, the strategy and methodology themselves
should be carefully reviewed to ensure that project impact is responding to both
local development needs and wider environmental concerns.   Thirdly,  at the
regional and national levels, the impact of the program on development, the
economy, and the environment should be monitored. This should review whether
there was effective "feed back" from the field on key policy, institutional and
legal matters, whether the local, decentralized focus of the Project helps in
targeting technical support and infrastructure investment to where it is most
needed and therefore more efficient.
V.    CONCLUSIONS
There is no simple blueprint available for the implementation of this
strategy. The success of the operation will depend to a very large extent on the
skill, determination, and dedication of those people entrusted with project
implementation. The strategy gives them more opportunity and more responsibility
than usual.  Whether this is finally seen as a strength or as a weakness of
design will depend on the people themselves.



MA
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT lbt511CT
LIST OF PbILOT OPERIATIONS
*itle of Project                                        Donor          Impkmaln          Amount
J     Period       (USS 1,000)
A. RESSOURCES EN EAU IT EN SOL
1. Luneo hm o cor rsEosion                                                         Gencyrz   s s so                      2,847
2. Lunt AliErosi  KoWilWal        I                                                Ndheands             86-89            1,013
3. AzuEaganet Terror Villo Pan                                                     Nehcrland            8749              293
4. DI  _oppmaat Rural Dogos                                                        Neherlands           U980              198
S. Lulte Ati-Eh ouiW KoaiaPai     1                                                Nhcrads              t9-93            3,832
6. Resoure d'Eau                                                                   US PNa  Corp         71-89            2,628
7. Plauifcation et Gedion des EPx Sourabu                                          UNDP                 5489             6,195
8. A        _asgemet Hydro-Agricole Gao                                            UNDP                 S6-89             120
9. Syame Pagutine                                                                  UNDP                 87-89             125
10. DRe  et Rslouws Nau res                                                        UN Volunwers         5489               0
11. Pub lAmior   Diolk                                                             SNV                  7849               7
12. A    _nages dos Ternoin Vieoo Fan                                              SNV                  8889              297                     .
13. Aduction dEAu Gouinn  Niak                                                     ACDI                 88-91            2,437
14. Hydralpu Viflageo                                                              ACDI                 S9               8,390
IS. Puit de Mwins                                                                  ACDI                 8889              511
16. Maklie de rEau en Pays Dogon                                                   ACDI                 85-89            1,270
17. Puls poUr ka Survie de l'Enst                                                  Afice                U8-91             273
15. Puls de KolmueboxAfu Aicar                                                                          69-90              6
19. Puils do Pamni                                                                 Aficam               89-90              5
20. Pul de Babugou                                                                 Africa               89-90              3
21. Proje da*FAo-Asuimanoe de Gaado                                                AUirica              89                 7
22. D6- Ie_ ew de Niafikd Eau Pbtable                                              AMAS                 87-89             144
23. Puirts d'Eu L pakoGoiuma                                                       BADIFAD              90              12,437
24. Hydraulque Villisgeoi CEAO                                                     BAD/PAD              87-89           6.173
25.  oins d'Eau 1.pako-Gourma                                                      DID                                  4,981
26. Apouo          en lDa en Milicu Rural                                          IBRD/IDA             84-92           10,900
27. Prjad Pub Macin                                                                CARE/Mal             86-92            1,113
28. Mli Aqua Viva 3                                                                CCCE/Prance          87-90           6,488
29. Hydulique Viblagouc I Silam=e  Kadiolo                                         Denmk                88-90           11,140
30. Eau Putabk eKotials                                                            PAC/Pance                              259
31. Barges en Pays Dogon/2hme Tnche                                                PAC/Prnce                              456



32. Mali   Vivad jHge Villageis                                                    FAC/rance                               S 509
33. RPau Hydrologique                                                              FA                                      127
34. Valorisation EuShne Region                                                     FED/CUE               8849              556
35. Hydiqe  Ike et 2ke Rdgions                                                     FED/CUE                                4,420
36. HydmuiqucVillcageoiA-A inis                                                    UNICEF                8892            11,698
37. Puibs Paomux & OURO Velbl (Kouna)                                              Genvdrs Monde                            16
38. Eau pour Is Mal                                                                Ily                   87-92            1,851
39. Valodation Resouuese Hydr-Souterraines , IV, et V Roons                        Ily                   88-90            2,717
40. Unitd C-opdation dEcution d'Acqducs R3Ux/Pa  JI                                IalWy                 88-90           6,773
41. Prje de Puits du Lac Fagoline                                                  Luhe-W. Relief                           3
42. Kngoia Gueba                                                                   OXPAM (UK)            89                 7
43. Tapoto                                                                         OXPAM (UK)            89                 4
44. Pnojet D       hceoppement Rurd et Misw an Vakur des Resource Nauefles         PAM                   87-91             41
45. HydraulkuVllageoiscliatoims                                                   SECAMA                89-               92
46. RedCh: MisO on Valur EBm SoutCranes                                            Sw;ziQand             86-89           5,286
47.    vt au Potable Plateau Dogon                                                 Sw dzerlan            85-92             974
48. HydhUu                                                                         Tare des Hommes                         54
49. Pubt Vllageojt ToxboutOu                                                      UNAIS                 87-90             262         1
50. Misn en Var dU Systam dU Lac FaguCP e                                          UNSO                  86-90           3,750
51. POUi Dogon                                                                     World Relief          88-89           2,600
52. PRojt de D6velo Wement Ietid M&uk.                                             ViSion Mondiak        88589             564
B. ENERGI
1. Pormm  Spdoial Enagis Raouvabl (PSE)                                            Gmany GZ             85-90            1,432
2. Diffuion de Foyes A    r                                                        Germany GTZ           88-91           2,562
3. Energy Secor A umn  Pogram                                                      Nethurads                               253
4. Foyas AmofEs                                                                    US Pac= Corps         71-89           2,010
S. Diffusion Foyes Amrliofg Kayes                                                  UNSO                  87-90             530
6. Cetre Rgal d'erie Soai (CRES)                                                   BAD/FAD               88-89           11,531
7. Ahndnameat Hydro-Agricolo de h Plain do Daye                                    BAD/FAD               89-93           2,845
S. Cente Rioml Eneg Solaie Lome I                                                  FEDICEE                               2,023
9. ESMAP Household Energy Statea                                                   Nedbcand              89                41S
C. AGRCULTURE SYLVICULTURtE ET PECH8
a. A uic k au | 
1. Pogd de Dd penat Agmob  dans le Zones Aides Mui                                 CARE/Mali            86-90            1,536
2. Projet de D6l4J  nu Rrl & Tombooctou                                            CARE/Mali             86-92           2,869
3. Pojet Sysae Agro-Syvo-Patonm  Viabls & Denne                                    CARFMaH              8991             1,018
4. Projet Agop-Ecoloi Bk                                                           DED                   86-91            333
S. Pijt Agro-ologic Tominia                                                        DED                  88-90              133



6. Petit Barages anPay.Dogon                                                       DED                   87490             ISS
7. Appui Office du Nigert2mne Trnche                                               FAC/France                              433
8. Gestion du Terroir Mal-Sud                                                      FAC/Fkance                              251
9. Projen Zono La1st                                                               FIDA                  87-93           6,271
10. Prone do Dveoppnet Rrl MaSud H                                                 FIDA                  84-9            12,828
11. Proe do Recherche at In Sytmes de Production Agricole                          Nedherlands           84-89           9,000
12. P     Projs Ambusde                                                            Nethelands            8489              63
13. Projet do RoCiechee as  ks Systmes de Production AgriCole                      Nherands              89-93           6,706
14. Valrisaio Ressources Hydauiques Gao et Tombouctou                              Ialy                  89-91             615
IS. Op6rtion Haute Vaile                                                           USAID                 78-90          20,791
16. Recherche sur n Sytmes de Produclion Rurale                                    USAID                 85-94           9,283
17. Amdnagent do Teroir                                                            ACDI                  88-93           9,750
18. Kaarta/Fhase M                                                                 ACDI                  89-90           12,584
19. Micro Raliaion 11                                                              ACDI                  89-93           4,062
20. Kaaia/Pha1    H                                                                ACDI                  84-89           19,303
21. GOet  In btgre Resources Natreles                                              AEN                                   2,644
22. D&mbppement de Nifink6 P6ambrcs 1rrig                                           AMAS                 87-91             98
23. Oass f Amduageunets                                                            ANITOU                                  873
24. Iniate die Bae                                                                 ANlTOU                                  335
25. Ddveloppament Rgdon do Mopti                                                   BAD/FAD               86.90           8,012
26. D6veloppaW nt Agro-Sylvo -Paoal en Eve au Mali Nord-Est                        BADIPAD               88-93           18,623
27. D&eo"cment Rural Slngue                                                        BADIFAD               82-89           14,817
28. Rdaliation du PNrimtre Hyd-Agricol Baguineda                                   BADAD                 90-94           19,213
29. Amhnicat Hydo-Agriool de  Pbaine de Daye                                       BADIFAD               89-93           8,496
30. Appui Lo   tiqu_CoophrWo-R      m      v                                       Belgium               89-92             34
31. Projn Mali-Sud I                                                               IBRD/IDA              8449            25,900
32. Ddvekoppcmc REgon Mopti                                                        IBRD/IDA              85-91           19,500
33. Projet Consataon Office du Niger                                               IBRD/IDA              89-             40,000
34. D&veoppeanet Rurl REgion I                                                     IBRDADA               88-             25,000
35. Cnl Tanda Kabaa                                                                CCCE/Frnce            87-9            4,991
36. Poje de D6veloppemeat Rual Mai-Sud H                                           CCCE/Frnce            8489            9,154
37. RIocaNiation Nomades A_Magemceat Mar do Doo                                    EUMC                  87-91             113
38. MaSud 1mm. meTanche                                                            FAC/Fanue                               779
39. Office du Niger/3bei Tnbche                                                    FAC/Fance                             5,157
40. Prto t SoI-Eau-Ptme/Ihae H                                                     FAC/Fance                               254
41. Appui  rOfflice du Niger                                                       FAC/Fance                             11,715
42. Prot Fuhmvi      r dl ons Lone m                                               FED/CEE               88-90           3,462
43. Am6nagemet Hydro-Agricole GAO                                                  FENU                  8489            2,384
4. Poamme AgSylvo-Pastorl Haua                                                     Itly                                  5,009
4S.  DtlrePlu D o                                            ~~~~~~~~~~GernanyKFPW                  7,570               oo 
45. D6veloppamnet lntdri PI.tan DogonGatnyFW7S
46. Paguibine (UNSO)                                                               Norway                87-89           1,039                  x
47. P    mme IEgred  BafouWbe                                                      Nony                  87-90     .    3,042
48. Ddvhel m Agriool                                                               Norway                87-90           1,870
49. Ddveloppeneut Agricola Zone LacuI e                                            OPEP Funds                            2,600



50. D6veloppunentl6 de li Zone Lacareiae n                                            UNSO                  8689              430
51. Vulgrisation Agricol en Pays Dogon                                                Germany GTZ           88-1
52. Decvppeent Rual Integrc du Lao Oro                                                Germany GTZ           88-91
b. Bkvg
1. Dveonment del 'Agricukure                                                         Gerany GTZ             89-90             432
2. Ekvag                                                                              UNDP                  88m2             1,068
3. Secw lMgc 11                                                                       USAID                 82-90           22,220
4. Encadreient et Relamc Eevage Tombouctou                                            VSF                   89-91             572
5. D         hvbocmcnt In4rc de 8 Villages                                            ACDE                  88-90              13
6. Appui k l'nvage                                                                    EBRD/IDA              88-              5,000
7. Opratioo D    oppemat Elege & Mopti ODEM                                           CCCE/Fhan=c           86-89            6,455
8. A         _nage  Pastoranu dans la 3me Rgon                                        CCCE/IFmnce           89a2             5,243
9. PRODESCO Kayes-Nam                                                                 FAC/Frnce                               293
10. D6ecment Elevapg MaiSud                                                          FEDICEE                79-89            2,782
11. Ekvage Mali Nord-Est                                                             FED/CEE               90-93             2,604
12. Ekvage Sabel Occidentl (OMBEVI)                                                  Saoudian Funds         78-89           14,081
c. Poehe
1. P     smoioa do la Pechc (SEguE)                                                  Gernany GTZ           89-90
2. DppementPisciul                                                                   UNDP                   87-92            1,618
3. Pechs Dioliba                                                                     AMAS                   87-90             100
d. Sxiyc                                                                                                                                            -
1. Proj Agro-Foresticr Kozo                                                          CAREI/Mali            83-89             1,S08
2. Amiagement Fortier et Rebos      t do Koulikoro                                   PAO                    86-89            1,184
3. Surveilac Rssourcs Nauraes Renouvelables                                          FED/CEE                86-89
4. Don do Vllages SgoulFP a luterm1aire                                             Netherands             89                476
S. Syheukur                                                                          US Peace Corps        71-89             2,694
6. Appui I la Foreuzic V iwgo. Rgion do KouMio/Phas H                              SNV                    89-92            2,564
7. Propammu  dAppui I s Foruaeic du Mali (PAFOMA)                                    Swiand                 87-92           10,666
8. AmEageent Fort Natuele                                                            Tunisia
9. RdPoirniedVMageois                                                                USAID                  80-91            1,855
10. Projet Foestier OAP0 11                                                          EBRD/IDA              86-91            6,300
11. FlamnementdoPxejciForestier                                                      CCCE/France           8691             6,641
12. Acais S gl (UNSO)                                                                Norway                87-91            1,380
13. Dauim PerojetForester (IDA)                                                      Norway                88m90            2,449
14. Koro Vllage Forestior                                                            Norway                87-90            1,513
15. Ppinb   Reboiaement Silo                                                         SECAMA                8-91               106
16. R8Abation AcacisShfgl                                                            UNSO                  87-91            1,500



MAIU
NATURAL WI SOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MENU OF APPRQPRIATE TECINOLOGIES
Reliability     Location         Soils          Slope           Cost
A   B    C     A   B   C       A   B   C      A   B   C   CPAVOO  Unit
A. Water Harvestina
Eaulb Bund Acrs GUfy                             X               X                  X  X        X              46  ha
Rionfonxd Eath Bunds                             X               X              X   X   X       X   X
Slone Bunds                                      X               X              X   X   X           X          SO ha
Contour Slone Lin                                    X           X   X          X   X   X       X
Pbomn Bund                                       X               X                       X              X    1,330 km
Harrowing                                            X           X                  X   X       X              33  ha
Animal 1mpat                                         X               X              X  X        X
B. Erosion Control
Watenhed Correction                              X                   X          X  X                    X     200  ha
Subsufce Stablizatio                             X               X                  X               X
Straw Bundles                                    X               X 
8nnch Bundls                                     X                                  X  X        X
Stone Bundles                                    X               X  X
Gabion Weir                                          X          X  X   X            X  X                X
Spilwy                                               X               X              X               X
Riv_bank Trnuig                                  X              X               X                       X
Quicbet Hedge                                    X              X               X              X               12  km
Wuidbrak                                         X              X               X  X            X             140 km
GCa Conur                                                X      X   X           X   X          X               40  ha
C. Soil Filit, h Dune Fixation
Agro Forestq                                     X              X        X          X   X           X         145  ha
Sand Dune Fatio                                  X                   X          X                   X         400  ha
Sand Dunc P _atation                             X                   X          X                   X
D. Vctlion Rehabiliration
Controled Grag                                       X               XX         X  X   X       X  X
Paddock Delimtation                                      X           X                                         67  ha
Early Fus                                            X               X              X   X      X
FureBreaks                                       X                   X  X       X  X   X       X               40  km
Reforesaton                                      X                       X      X  X   X            X 
...             .                                    & ~~~~~~~~~~X



Natural Pod Rehabilidtion                              X                         X       X                X                107  ha
Pitting                                                         X           X                 X           X
Tree Nursry                                            X                         X            X   X       X              1,066  unit
Reseeding                                                       X           X
e. Village Water Sungl,
Well                                                  X                                                                 11,000  unit
Boreholes                                             X                                                                  3,200  unk
Borehoks With Pnp.                                    X
Earth Dam                                                  X            X                         X                X    8,400   nit
PndDeepeming                                          X                 X  X                      X       X               640  unit
F. Aerucuhural Prc
Tied Ridgs                                            X                 X                     X  X        X
Semi-Circular Earth Bund                              X         X       X                     X   X       X              59.000 h
Plate Semi-Ciculr Earh Burd                                     X                        X   X   X             X         95,000 h
V-Shaped Micro Cicthsn                                          X      X                      X   X            X        196,000 ha
Sani-Circular Ditches                                 X         X       X                     X                    X   360,000 h
Zmi (Buria Pitig                                      X                 X                     X   X       X             268,000 ha
Cukivation Under Mubh                                 X                X                      X   X       X
Incorporation of Green Manure                              X           X                 X
Incorportion of Crop Residues                                   X      X                 X        X       X
lncorporation of Strw                                      X           X                 X        X       X
Composting Pit                                             X           X                 X                               45,000 unit
Crop Rotation                                                   X      X                     X   X        X
Contour Crtpuig                                            X           X
Reliability: (a) FuUy tested in Mali, (b) Tesled in Sabel, (c) Still not tesed in Sahel
Location: (a) Agricukuan, (b) Rangeland. (c) Forestq
Soils: (a) Sandy. @) Sily, (o) Clsye
Sbp.: (i) Ls thn2%, (b) 2to 6%, (c) More dn 6%
IX



MALI
NATURAL RFSOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF TIlE PROJECT AREA
Arva          Production         Homogeneous         Cercbs          No. of         Areand                  Types of Activky
Syspm                Zone                           Villages        Population
MOPI1   _ vg"                     Ativ  Delta         Djenne             i           42,000 ha      Flood Control, Borcholes, and Rangeland
Dpamc       Ag:mculawc                                                               11.000 inhab.   Mnagemnct
Tcnenkou    Transhuman           -inctive' Dela       Tanakou    15 Villages or      138,000 ha/    Pastorl Development, Fishing Resources,
Heding              (WCst)                            "Fractions"       6,000 inab.    a  Agro-Forestry
Doueanza    Trnshuman            Gourm  Sod and       Douentza     3 Pastoral Units   90,000 ha/    Pastoml Water Pbints, Agro-Foray, and
Herding             Mondoro              Boni                           700 inab.      Rangeland Mangement
Gounna
Rharous
BAOULE    Protece National    Mandingue Plateau,   Kita                  10          378,000 ha/    Participative Managemcnt of Natural
Pauk                National Park (DF)   Kolokani                       1,700 inab.    Vegetation, and Agro-Forcstry
DILLY       Pstoral Rcsource     Hodh                 Nam                is          145,200 ha/    Pasture Development, Management of
and Agrienhuru                           Dilly                          8,000 inb.    Waler
Rcsources, Village Reforestation, Erosion
Conttol, and Panicipative Management of
Natural Vegetation
PERI-       Agp-Forestry         Mandingue Platu    Kati                 30         95,000 ha/      Particip- .e Managcment of Natural
URBAN       Villages aNd                             Dioila                         20,400 inhab.   Foress and New Plantations
FOREST      Gazt
AREA        Forests
KAYES-      Pastorl and          Guidam gh           Kayce               30         323,700 ha/     Erosion Control, Mobilization of Surface
DIEMA       Marginal                                                                22,500 inab.   Water, Integrtion of Agriculume and
Agrichuro                                                                              Stockraising, nd Natural Resource
Hodh                Dion                30         270,000 ha/     Management
24,300 inbbx



KAU
Natural Resource Management Project
Sumary Accounts Cost Sumary
FCFA9I                           U5MM8                         % Totsl
_ Foreign      Bass
Local   Foreign      Total       Local Foreign   Total       Exchange      Costs
I. INESTMENT COSTS
A. CivlI Works                  172116.9  26965M4.0 4317590.6       6199.7  9U40.2 16586.9          6S.1        67.8
B. Equipm_nt/Nat.rials           16479.6  820W44.6  48668s.6         592.6  1164.1  1748.9           66.1        6.4
C. Vehicles                      112399.6  198886.2  3f8286.0        494.8   697.4  1191.7           88.3        4.1
D. Aerial photo/Sat. imagery       121e.t    2811.9    49e.6           4.8    16.1    14.4           70.9        9.1
E. TralnIng                      458356.6   667J.9  522296.8        1631.3   247.1  1878.4           18.2        8.9
F. Consultant                    27300.9  716809.   966888.9        962.9  2674.8  8656.6            72.4       18.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS          2726901.8 8696613.7 6624516.6       966.4  14028.6  23829.2          68.9       87.9
II. RECOURRET COSTS
A. Salaries                      353260.9        9.9  85326.6       1279.7      0.9  1270.7           0.0        4.7
B. Travel Allowances             2S7602.6        6.9  267692.6       926.6      9.9   926.6           9.8        3.4
C. Vehicle 0   M Costs           94497.5   77242.6  171659.0        839.6   277.9   617.4           45.f        2.3
D. Equip m     Maintnaocs         45287.5   27862.5   72699.0       .162.7    98.4   261.2           37.7        1.9
E. Office Operatinc Costs         617S9.9       *.0   51759.9        166.2      *.0   186.2            .9        9.7
F. Bullding Maintenance            176.9    1676.9    8769.9           6.7      6.7    18.5          59.9        0.1
Total RECUENT COSTS              64182.5  196480.0  919612.5        2892.6   388.9  3275.6           11.7       12.1
Total BASELINE COSTS            85383a.6  495993.7 7535127.5    12696.9  14406.6  27104.6            63.2    1i9.0
Physical Contingencesg        214682.1  363692.6  578286.9        772.2  1387.9  2669.2           62.9        7.7
Price Contingencies           39625.9  499fl2.   635 18.6        1221.8  2766.2  2967.5           59.1       11.9
Total PROJECTS COSTS            4114236.6  4869689.8 6943626.1    14691.6  17486.9 82172.4           64.3      116.7
4_1m _-
4/39/1992 aT :18
I-
U'



MALI
Natural Resreu  Man        Projoet
Project cot Sumry
FCFA                            uSJm                         X Totel
X Forelgn      Bse
Local   ForIgel     Total       Local Foreign   Total      Exchangs      Cost
A. Ville" LwI lIvestsmfta    1719446.6 2684444.0 4844690.9        0152.7  9476.4  15629.1          so.0      57.7
D. Field Teckeical Support     60 47.6  286229.5  61445.6          2159.6   06.1  3m.2             28.2      11.1
C. Central Imp.1 Monit.Umit     166132.5   elm.#  226902.5         594.6   222.5   816.3           27.2       3.9
P. Skill Dvt & Publlc Aware      68556.9       6.6  563555.9      227.2        .9  327.2            9.0       7.5
E. TA, begerch & Studies        20790.9  GJ2C  .0  U4156.          756.7  2276.8  M527.9           76.2      11.2
F. Ba-l. Pational Park          26994.8  81_C1.7   51979.$         755.3  1101.2  166.6            59.5       6.9
a. Not. Eavi. Mo.l. Facility      7.6  132134.5  234735.0          259.9   47.5   736.5            o4.S       2.7
Total UASEWIE COSTS            853UM.$ 49 3.7 7u3127.5    1269J.9 14496.6 27194.6                  53.2     1U.0
Phwsical Conti ufciles       214662.1  86862.6  5762.9           772.2  1897.9  29.2            02.9       7.7
Price C.etlucies              39526.9  496192.17  63J1.6        1221.8  176.2  2937.5           $9.1      11.0
Total  OECTS COSTS             404236.6 4659669.3  9926.1    14691.5 17469.9 3217.4                64.3     116.7
4/6/1992  llsl4 
* Refinancing of a PPF of US$200,000 is included in these costs.



MALI
Natural Rwource Management Project
Suary Account by Project Component
FCFA35
Villa               Central    Skill                           bat.
L  l.'r   FAeid     Impl.&    Deyt A     TA,       Seoulc    Envi.
Investmen Technical Monit.Uni   Public   Reserch  National   Moni.
to     Support      t       Aware   & Studies    Park    Facility
1. DWESITM   CUSe
A. Civil Works                 415_5.9   4915.9          6.6       0.9        9.9  13_11.9        9.9
3. Equipmsst/lsterials          214351.9  155605.9   1395.9    9101.          *.i   5735.0   87336.9
C. Vehicle                           *.6  1264810.9   526.       91015.6      9.   112816.1     11.
D. Aerial photo/Sat. tmegey    t      .        6.0   t     . t           9. 9  9.9  451.9         0.9
E. Training                          0.9       el        8.*  45356.6         1.1   6170.9        6.6
F. Coemltaste                        9.9 t.t             9 .9   948WS   M15.    2755.9   7269.6
Total INVESTHENT COSTS         434436.0  21141.0 .61 65.0  S3OWN.   7411n.0  46655.9  17156.
1U. NECIJEENT COSTS
A. Salarie                           9.9  25691.9   5839.4          6.0       6.0   26143.0   14405.
B. Travel Allnces                     .   112656.9   598392.       0.6    65.9   28925.0    6750.0
C. Vehicle O   11 Cost.              6.9  1176.0   4251.9          9.9        *.9       9.9   1295.6
D. Equipment Umibtenamo              6.9   1761.9        0.6       9.9        *.9    C65.9        0.0
E. Office Opeatinc Coot.             6.9   44266.9    75.9         *.9       9.9        *.9       t.9
F. Sol lding Umntenance              9.9    3769.9       6.6       .9.        9.9       9.9       9.6
Total ItECUIT COSTS                  0.9  554965.9  161982.5       0.9   565.9   1156.9   33160.9
Total SASELIE COSTS            434469.9  33446.9  226892.6  56355.9  34155.9  511179.9  294735.9
Physical ContinigecIes        434489.9   2125.9    2425.9        8.9   7915.9   24712.5   163.6
Price Contieci                69273.6   51529.9   15826.9   46939.1   6521.2   2M36.6   1669.1
Total OJECT COSTS              561452.9  916174.9  24616.4  69494.1  966621.2  571916.9  239862.6
Taxes                              9.0       0.0       9.6       0.9        9.9       9.9       6.0
Foreign Exclago               32936.6  29M2.5   66015.5          6.9  74389.   339397.6  153177.1
4/11/1982 11:12                                -_



WLu
Natural Resource eMnagummt Project
Sumry Account by Project Component
FCFAW
Physical          Prico
ContlngonciTs     ContingncieT
Total              Amount      X   Amount
1. INVESTU    COSTS
A. Clvil Works                 4317696.9      16.6  431759.0    13.4  69293.4
I. Eqmaipmnt/Mteriels           486U6.0        9.8   477".6       9.3   46363.9
C. Vehicle                       625.6         9.6       *.       4.1   12413.2
D. Aerial photo/Sat. imagery      4.4         14.9     499.6      1.9      76.6
E. Training                     522286.9       6.6       6.4      8.3   43359.9
F. Consltant                    99J1111.6      9.9   69476.9      7.4   73263.7
Total  WESTT COSTS             0624515.9       8.6  56997.5    11.4  764749.1
It. RECUII COSTS
A. Salari"                      65326.6        *.6       6.6       .2   29136.5
o. Travl Allone                 257ff2.5       6.0       6.6      7.6   1978.9
C. Vehicle 0 A M Ce             171656.6       9.9       *.9      9.8   1s136.3
D. Equipasat Maina               7269.9        2.8    2662.5     .8.    6492.2
E. Offlce Operatinc Cot          5176 .9      13.2     2.6         .3    4664.6
F. BlT Iding Maintenane           376.     9        9.6  9.6     6.7      827.1
Total REN   CSTS                915612.5       1.9    6897.5     8.3   75773.5
Total BASELI  COSTS            7635127.6       7.7  576236.6    11.0  836613.6
Phsical Conti.osncies         578235.6
Price ContingencT             63513.6        7.7   63S57.9
Total PROJECT COSTS            694926.1        7.2  641642.9     9.5  863613.6
Toxw                               6.0 9.6             0.9
Foreign Exchange             4359689.3       6.4  496913.4
4/3/122  11: 12
tJl



mu
eat.IIl Eseource Manaemt Project
FCFAU9
Sumry Account. by toer
Bose Cost                                  Foreign Exchange
91        *2        es         *4        06     Total         x    Amount
I. IINESTnIT COSTS
A. Civil Works                   S5W9.0  491529.6  355558.  1217467.0 1687616.6 43176900          60.1 259684.9
B. Eq.p.pet/M.tOrialIs          162396.0   6709.0   6466.0   96349.0   8460.0  486836.9            66.1  320844.
C. vehicles                     17660 .    51S  0 5  3S10 1     M46.0    SON.6  306285.9           63.3  193885.2
D. Aerial photo/Sat. lo.9q       4.U9          *9* 9.* 9.0                   9.t    4616.0         70.0    2600.0
E. Training                     67715.t  1196.0  117M7.9  12U70.9   96296.0  522206.0              13.2   6876S.6
F. Cosultante                   2942.9  275979.0  222979.0  136026.0   64729.0  9M8960 .           72.4  7168019.
Total DWESTUDE' COSTS          77943U.0 192874.0 1311413.9  15756I2.0 1928931.0 6024515.0         58.9 3896613.7
I. RECaUIET COSTS
0. Salari"s                       4140.0 S664.    77106.9   7719180    76220.9  353269.0            9.0       O.0
H. Travel Al loeaces             4743a.0   61322.5   S96.0   46469.9   46450.9  257602.5            0.g        .0                            a
I. Vehicle O a M Cost           25976.0   32960.0   $7675.9   $7875.9   3876.0  17180.0            45.9   77242.5                            VI
J. Eqvipment Maintenasc          14501    142 .0   148M.    1466.9   14866.   72609.9              37.7   27302.5
K. Office Oporatluc Cost         195.9   l3.0   1935.0   19360.9   13506.0   617650 ..                        0.0
L. Building malteance             750.       760.9     750.      765.0     750.9    3765.9         50.0    1875.O
Total SOECrET COSTS             151745.0  188112.5  196905.   187406.  13445.0  910612.5           11.7  106486.0
Total BASELIE COSTS             931186.0 1216966.5 166131.9  1763267.9 2115376.6 7536127.5         53.2 4006093.7
Physical Cotingec1ie          52713.0   62426.4  116209.3  144361.2  132679.1  578265.0         62.9   836362.8
Price Contingencies           1686.    66498.0  140685.6  235407.4  371244.7  839613.6          59.1  495992.7
Total PROJECT COSTS            10_9576.0 136659.9 1765212.9 214303.6 266919J.3 8943926.1           54.3 4859689.3
Tr.e                             0.9        0.0       9.6       6.0       0.0        *.e         0.0       9.0
Foreig Excang                5569159.0  731692.8  943601.9  116022.6  1464313.9 4869689.3      1JJ.6 48596#89.3
4/86/1992 11:18
us
I oe



VALI
Natural Rsoeres Imsost Project
Sumry Accoqat by Ver
Totals Including Contige.clee
FCFAM
41         2        U4                    a      Tot I
1.  DWESII COSTS
A. CjvIl lWrs                    9165.   566745.4  1923846.   1665.69 215U42.8  15202.4
0. Equlput/mst.rials             169718.5    657.2  191.6  119116.1  121829.0  767572.4
C. vehiclem                      176516.6   66419.7   53224.9   1165.2    661.$  810696.2
D. Aerial phto/sat. l_m            4476.3       6.6        6.6       e.g        9.0    4476.6
E. Tralmiag                       6575.   1252 9.9  127669.6  154425.5  11_4.9   10554.9
F. Consultas                     527647.6  517826.9  26596.0  166140.9   6611.5  115152.7
Total IIWESTmT COSTS             644695.6 1167165.2  1561644.9 195259C.6 2455361.3 7940652.6
n. IIECUIFff COSTS
A. Salaries                       54952.1   71655.1  681U.5   65661.7   37073.1   6239506.
S. Travel Alloe                   46141.4   64119.6  60247.7   5151s.6   53064.1  277081.4                                                     0'
C. Vehicle OM a   Coot            2c49s.6   54616.7   4169.8   42462.4   43871.6  167538.5
D. Equip  -l Maintenao            14040.9   15333.7   16484.6   17922.1   17577.4   616t4.7
E. Office Operatiac Coot          11696.7   12247.4   12614.9   12995.$   15835.1   65129.5
F.  i ldling Ulbinterce             762.6     763.1      *14.5     341.8     $7?.1    4677.1
Total RECURRET COSTS             1C5564.4  196746.7  21438.9  29439.9  216839.6  996273.5
Totel PROJECT COSTS             14a78.9  1565963.9 1765212.9 2143836.6 2669196.8 3943926.1
4/16/1932 11:12
Vs|



Natural Reource MOnagsCwt Project
Suscry Acousts by Yeor
Totals Iacluding Coetingencles
*1        12         9         04          6      Total
1. DRNESTT CoSTS
A. Civil Wrbs                       844.1   2345.        8632.9    6 24.8    7676.2   19171.8
B. Eqi st        Isle               611.6      249.6      864.4     429.9      486.4   2361.6
C. Vehicl                           642.2      816.1      119.6      41.9       24.6    1146.4
D. Aerlol photo/St. lusaoy           1U.1        9.9       *.9        6.9        9.9      16.1
E. Traiiag                         247.4      45.7       4C7.1     43U.5      896.7    2684.4
F. Coa eltaatt                      1176.2    1148.8      964.7     576.1      293.9    4142.2
Total riESTWT COST                 8016.5    4196.4    5576.6    6951.6    6625.    26592.8
II. REOIEAW CASTS
A. Salaries                         197.7      257.6      299.9     897.9      818.2    1875.5
D. Travol All _sec                  178.2      239.6      216.7     165.8      199.9     996.7
C. Vehicle 0 a M C"e                 91.7      124.5     147.6      152.7      157.6     674.6
D. Eqipuwmt Malutesa"                52.7      5S.2       59.8       61.2       ".2      291.6
E. Offlc Operatlec Cost             42.6       44.1      45.4       46.7      48.1      227.1
F. uilding Maistema_e                 2.7        2.0       2.9        8.9       8.1       14.7
Total UURECNT COST                  600.7      714.9     771.1      757.0     776.4    8509.1
Total POJCT COST                   8599.2    4918.8    6849.7    7796.8    961.4   82172.4
4/38/1992 11:18
.                                                                            1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n



-68-
ANNEX 6
MAU
NiATMtAL RESOIMCE MANAGENENT PRO13C
ESTIMTED SCHEDULE OF DISB EMENTS OF IDA CKEDIT I/
Disbursements
IDA Piscal Year           Semester   Cumulative              Cumulative
and Semester                   (USS Million)               Disbursement
Deoember3l, 1992                        0        0                        0
June 30, 1m  2!                       0.6       0.6                       3
EM
December 31, 1993                     1.4       2.0                       10
June 30, 1994                         1.7       3.7                       18
EM
December31, 1994                      2.4       6.1                       30
June 30, 199S                         2.5       8.6                       42
EM
December31, 1995                      4.0      12.6                       62
June 30, 1996                         2.5      15.1                       74
Em
December31, 1996                      2.4      17.5                       86
June 30, 1997                         0.9      18.4                  .    90
EM
December31, 1997                      0.8      19.2                       94
June 30, 1998                         0.8      20.0                       98
December 31, 1998                     0.4      20.4                      100
/I     This schedule is identical to the tandard disburement profile for agriculkual proje  in Mali, with the cxccdon of
FY96 whern one semester is compreued and the percentage becomes 62% instead of 54%.
2/     EBxpcted datz of Board pentation: May 1992
Expeted date of Credit effectiveness: January 1993



NATURAL RESOURtCE MUAHMMUM PROJC
C  MMTI  LEMENTinLTONSCE8DA
PY1           PY2          PY3          PY4          PYS
1. ContraI Iel ementationand Monitorina Unit
Offico RehabilItationand Equipment            X
ProcurementVehicle                            7
Procurement Equipment and Inputs              X
Staffing - Technicol Assistance               4                           ----_
- CIMU Managme_t Toam                3----   ----------   ---------   ---------   ---------
- CIMU ImplementationToam             3----6 ---   ----------   ---------   ---------   --------
-  Support  Staff                       -------    ----------    ---------    ---------    ---------
2. Technical SuDport to Field Operations
Office Rehabilitationand Equipment            X
ProcurementVehicle                            19
Stf fing - Regional CoordInotion              3----_       _______-_    ---------   ---------   ---------
- District Coordination             10----- ----------   ---------   ---------   ---------
-  Accountants                      3---- ---    ----------    ---------    ---------    ---------
- TST                                9-------      ___ _--------    ---------             _________
- Exten-ion Agents                  1iS--         -             -10-     -10------   ---------
- Support Staff                      15-------    ----------   ---------   ---------
3. In I _lntationat th- VJIlIaat eLtI
S l ection of Villages                             25            30           36           30           30
Goal Setting/TrastBuilding                         26            30           36           30           30
BasslI no Study                                    26            30           36           30           30
Set Up Villoge HRM Pln                            25           30            35           30           30
Negotiationof Villogo NRM Plan                     26            30           35           30           30
NRM Plan Impl emntotion/Moeitoring                               26           66           85           S0
Annum I Assessont and Adjustmnt                                 26           56            85           90
4. Skill Dove lgomntand Pub IIc Aareness
Bieding Documents Prepared                    X>
InternationmlSidding                          X
Setting up SubcontractingFirm                    X                                                                     M 
TA Provided                                      I------   ----------   -------       ---------   ---------- I
Training De liv erd                              I----      ----------    --------     ---------   ---------



Imp l_mntation- Initisl Team Bulding            X
- Periodical Training                     ---   ---------    ----------   ----------
- Annual Workshops                      X            X           X            X            X
Public Awareness Campaigns                      X                X            X            X          X
S.  aouIla Prk
Red-limitationSurvey                       X
Staffing -    OPNBB                          --------    ----------  ----------   ----------    -------
-   TA                                      I----     ----------  ----------  ----------  -------
Equipment OPf4NB                             X
EstsblishmntManagementPlan                  --------   ---------   -----          ----------
Implementationand Monitoring ManagementPlan                                ----   ----------   -------
S. Pro;ect ITmlamntationand Monitorina
Setting Up computerize Accounting System   X
National CoordinationCom_ittee Meetings      X             X           X          X              X
Supervision Mission                             X   X        X X         X X           X  X        X X
Annual Accounting Audit                                   X            X          X            X         X
Annual Project ImplmentationReviE. Meeting    X            X                         X           X
Midtorm Review                                                           X
7. Nationel Environ. Monitorino FacIlity
Recruitment                                       I---     ---------  ----------  -----------   ------
ProcurementEquipment                             X
De ign EIS                                        I---  -------    ----I
implementation ETS                                                       I
--------- -  --------~ ~ ~ -



-71-
ANNEX8
MAU
NA12  RSORCE MANAGMN PROJECT
1aDk~~b~m. J_    . The staff input indicated in the Table below is in additon to the supevion
provided by a Banlk Natual Resource Management specai staiooed in Ouadgou (rina Paso) charged
with the    ervision of NRM  proets in the sub-regon and other actvities, and in addition to regular
supervision needs in Washington for the review of progress reports, procuement act , cepondence, etc.
(estmated to require two staff weeks per year).
2. &     =  Borh are to be submitted as follows:
(i)   they should cover al pameters of the project execution;
(ii) at the end of May and November of each year,
(M)  by the Project Director of the Central Implementation and Monitong Unit based upon the input
provided by Projects' Regional and Distict Coordinators and Technical Support Teams.
3. Shedule of Suqu2Wm Nflmon
-ti - DanAnivky                                  Ezxpef b  Ed1YtffW
02/        Projct Launcn Workhop             TM, Facilitor, Nd Finnil Anyt      6.0
05/93      Siwnf/lmpkmtaon Rw Meetig  TM and Poplar Praion Speoi-l              5.0
Gender_ sm
11/93      Supervision  Mision               TM And Tninsng Speislt             3.0
05194                          Revinw Meeting  TM,            NWn u ad pinancial  5.0
Analys
11%94      suprIn Mibion                     TM Nd Poplwa Pua  on SpeWiV        3.0
Gender hgu
05/95      Midtam review (to rviw iplemntio   TM. E   _1i  POpua*.
aler two yea and to rewommend correctve  Pbanoipan/dr  u, Fa
actions if required              Aalyt Aduk Training, Nata
11/95      Supevion Mion                     TM aN Naural Resoum                3.0
05fw9       Swanvisilmlemeuiation Review Meei   TM, Fi nnial AnyS, ad Ti         10.0
11196Ma     Supeion Miss                      TM and Envnma Spali                6.0



mu
PROJECT KEuEYW^lElR 
Indicator  PY-1   PY 1   PY 2    PY 3    PY 4    PY 5   TOTAL
1. PROGRAM INPUTS
Dw    _ emntof Staft
Centrol Sopl_mentetionand Monitoring Unit     No.        4      o       6       a       o       a
Regional and Local Coordination               No.       10      13      13      13      13     13
Technical Support Tem                         No.        -      9       is      15     15      15
Extension Agents                              Na                is      26      a6     46      46
Nationsl Environ. Monit. F cilIty                              a       3       3       3       3
Eaui  oent m9aoul- exc  todV                 No.               20      16                             3S
Vehicles                                      No.               30      20      20     20      20      110
Motorcycles                                 Million             60      30      20     10              120
OffIco equipmet
2.         OELIVm
mIolao NRM Plans                              No.               26     30      36      30      30      1S0
VII lages approached                          No.               26     30      35      30      30    10
SBs lIno StudI-eachieved                      No.              26      30      as      30      30    2s0
Villago NRM Plana Negotiated                  No.                      26      66      a6      80      105
Village NRM Plans Under Ixplam_ntation
Skill D v-lonmant                             day              744     730    730    730    730    3664
Village                                       day              1180
Initial Team Building Workshop                day              676    876    876    876        876
Extension Agents Fortnight Training           day              470    470    470    470    470
TST Monthly Training                          day              1300   1300    1300    1300    1300
Annual Workshops
VI lao. InvstmA_tn                            hea             1000   1500   2000   2600    3000   10000
Water Hervesti ng Bunds                        ha              900    1360   1600   2250    2700   9000
Watershed Erosion Control                      ha              350    525    700    876    1050   3500
Forestry RehabI I tation                       km              320    400    640    600    960    3200
Marking for Rangoland Grazing Managom nt      No.               3       4       a       6       1      32
Water Supply Facility
o-  q
x
I-X
'0



~~~~--                         ---         -                       =
Women in DeveloDment I.
Recruitment Extension Agents                       No                      3       3         3        3        12
Women in Vi Iage NRM Group                         %                       5       1S       25       30
Women Sub-Sectora I Groups/Others                  %                       S       10       is       20
3. PROGRAM IMPACT
Socio-EconomicalLI
Annual Household Production
On Farm Investments                            % increase                 10      20        35       SO
X increase                 20      40        70       100
Phvto-Ecoloicl Estimates LI
Pastoral Perennial/Annual
Pastoral Canopy                                % increase                 20      40        70       100
For-stry Regeneration                          X increase                 20      40        70       100
Soil OrganIc Matter                            % increase                 20      40        70       100
Land Erosion                                  % increase                  20      40        70       100
Mamal Species in Baoul- Park                   X decrease                 10      20        35       SO
X increase                 40      40        70       100
4. PROGRAM REVIEW AND REPORTING
Annual Program and Budget                        yes/no            1      1        1        1         1        6
IDA Supervision                                 yes/no              2     2        2        2        2        10
Annual External Audit                            yes/no            1      1        1        1         1        5
Ssmestrial Activity Reports                     yes/no              2     2        2        2         2       10
National CoordinatingCommittee Meetings          yes/no             2     2        2        2        2
Project Mid-term Review                                                            1
1/ Objectivesto be set up villageby villageaccordingto the pr--projectsituation.
c1QB
xq 
'.0c



-74-
Annox 10
MALI
NATIONAL RESOURCE MANAGEUENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANISATION CHART
Administrative                                  Institutional Set Up                                         Number
Villag  Sub-                   Vilg- Sub-                     Village Sub-
Sectoral Groups                Sctoral Groups                 Sectoral Groups
I~         ~           . I
Village NRU                    Villge NRM                     Village NRU             160
Village IrCup Group                                                                      Croup
Rural
Dov-lopment
Sector                                                   Extension Agont                                         46
Arrondissoment
Local~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Circle                               Dovelopment           D  trict
Comoittn             Coordinator
TECHNICAL SUPPORT TEAM
l  Co_unicntTons tXi
o NRM Planntng
Country~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                       Uononitmrin
e Project Managenageent
R glon       | Rogion   I     l      Regiovni  Tea_
Region I    Dovelopn         Na ionl  II
Coordinator         Committ-o             Ce9rdinstor                             Region V         8
Coor       g    |Coordinator
Conrtel
Implementation
Country                                                A iloni tori ng
Unit oXu
Provect Managoment
oField loI mpl nt tlon
s Environ. Monito. Two
|National
Coordinating                                              I X26
Committ*               §
Uiitr of Agriculture     
Ll-tck A Environment     



MALI
NATU1RAL RESOURCE MANACEMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(in staff-month)
D_ERATIONAL   DITEDIATIONAL         LOCAL        LOCAL        LOCAL
FINR             FIRM        DuIIVIDUAL       FIRM         FIRM
UNDER CO-FIeDCIV NO                         LONG-TERM        SHORT-TERM     SHORT-TERM   LONG-TERM   SHORT-TERM        TOTAL
TA to Central Implementation             Grmany          260                                                                      260
Monitoring Unit
TA to Skill Development Designing        Norway          N8                30             20                         20           ISO
Firms                                            I  _ _ _  _ __ _    _  _ __ _ _I _     _  _ _ _
Ugoul. National Park                     1w      I       -so               6          _
UaR IDA FNANCi
Training Design Firms                    IDA                                                           240                       240
Implementtion of Training                                                                 3                          36           70
Land Tenur- Resource Person                                                                                          is_26_ ___10__12
Environment Information Systm                                                                   is                   10           20
Processing
Womn In Development                                                        6              6                          6            15
Technical Expertis-                                                        5                                         6            is
Managment of Computerized Systems                                                         6                          5            is
Mid-term Review                                                                           S
External Audit                                                             6                                                      S
TOTAL                                                    340              61             eo            249          96           816
... .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I-



-76-
ANNEX 12
MALI
NATUML REt0URCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENT OF THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
WORKING PAPERS (in French)
1.  The Strategy of Community Natural Resource Management
2. The Project's Institutional Set Up and Operation
3. Terms of Reference of Project's Staff
4. The Baoule National Park Component
5. The Skill Development and Public Awareness Component
6.  The Project Environmental Analysis Procedures
7. The Gender Issue
S.  Menu of Technical Interventions
9.  Project Accounting Procedures Manua.
10.  Guidelines for the Establishment of Community NRM Plans
11. The Approach of Land Tenure Tests
12. Selected Thematic Bibliography
13. Detailed Cost Tables



NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SOILS AND RAINFALL
Ft.- FLUMO               C.AIS
|    M   NmsOts          s             {                          l            _    - A^  )k m t
|GLV.  GYSOIS     mj    Nl-] NnE l  RG REGSOs
I_LIJGWRVR.VRIoS               oD,
ED                   ~ ~~~~~~~AR.- ARlwoOLy
> p~~m Ce^AMoFWFam  
I~~~~~C -  ffkcwrxt           s                                                                                                                       ALGERIA- 41E
NI -    -                                                           1    :N.IU TW  Z
60~~~~ LENGTh OFGR'N,sno d s   -
60- ~      U
P.  "W A-.I %_*Omak_
WTEbKTXOlE       IVIRESOUNNOA1NM
GUINEA                                                                S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONE                        ERIANA     IAN
/              G UIN~~~~~~~~~      1000~~R IN



MA L I
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES
AND AREA OF THE PROJECT
noJfrA2A$
ILA~1T4A CARTh
o      CaOM CAMeLS 
- - -- oJEcrs ~~~                           ~            ~           ~            2 
,AYES  '-.---   D' KO,_r ' ic' v -.
e~~~~~~ -
Mao  Saes                                        GAO
MAURITANIA                 /                   The O                                              A                 A
/    _> Ydmse  ~~~ONto                        NAPA                            0                          
Di  KOULIKORC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h WoldBnk                            xcuivl
X . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or ,h ,convnei  o mf redr
04G     Th deno°n'ons                                                                                                                                 NIGER
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kelor,bef                                                   inera uO uf The World°Bak
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n  'h  boundaries shown)
GUl;<E.y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a thi .o don. epy o he
I~~ ~ ~ I0 I  a: par o                                                                  #' >WordBankGoup                                 Mo AUL INA
w n  .      susso t    I                 br ~~~~tatu of ny eretaryc or an                                                    I OO
<             KolrJndCC reb   i                    endorrs usemn   orf acceptnerl    sk                                                    NIGERI
o                      I            CorE D ^v_ i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ <   sunhbourdortes                          GUINEA   6 3         ;;BENIN  3                   O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~suh ondrrs  UNE  GIAL
'0~~~~~~~~~~~~



