Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22447
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-26450; IDA-23700; TF-22955)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.0 MILLION
(US$20.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
MALI
FOR A
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
PROJECT
June 29, 2001
Rural Development m
Country Department 15
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2001)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
CFAF 100 = US$ 0.14
US$ 1 = CFAF 718
FISCAL YEAR
Januaxy 1   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASP         Agricultural Services Project
CBNRM       Community-Based Natural Resources Management
CILSS       Comite inter 6tats de lutte contre la secheresse au sahel (Interstate Committee on Desertification in the Sahel)
CLD         Comite local de developpement (Local Development Committee)
CPS         Cellule de planification statistique (Statistical Planning Unit)
C1RD        Comite r6gional de d6veloppement (Regional Development Committee)
CVGRN       Comite villageois de gestion des ressources naturelles
(Village Natural Resources Management Village Committee)
DNAER       Direction nationale de l'amenagement et de l'equipement rural
(National Directorate for Rural Equipment and Management)
EAT         Equipe d'appui technique (Technical Support Teams)
EIS         Environmental Information System
EPD         Equipe pluridiciplinaire (Multidisciplinary Teams)
GRN         Gestion de ressources naturelles (Natural Resources Management)
GTV         Gestion de terroir villageois (Village Land Management)
GEF         Global Environment Facility
GTZ         Cooperation technique allemande (German Technical Cooperation)
IDA         Institutional Development Association
IER         Institut d'conomie Rurale (Rural Economy Institute)
MAEE        Ministere de l'agriculture, de l'elevage et de l'environnement
(Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Environment)
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
NRM         Natural Resource Management
ONG         Organisation non-gouvemementale (Non-Govemmental Organization)
OPNBB       Office du parc national de la boucle du Baoul6 (Baoule National Park Authority)
PGRN        Projet de gestion des ressources naturelles (Natural Resources Management Project)
PGT         Plan de gestion de terroir (Community Land Management Plan)
PIC         Plan d'investissement communal (Communal Investment Plan)
PNAE        Plan national d'action environnemental (National Enviromnental Action Plan)
PNBB        Parc national de la boucle du Baoule (Baoule National Park)
PNLCD       Programme national de lutte contre la desertification (National Program for the Control of Desertification)
SAC         Schema d'amenagement communal
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SAT         Sch6ma d'amenagement de terroir
UCMO        Unite centrale de mise en oeuvre (Central Project Implementation Unit)
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:      A. David Craig
Sector Manager:       Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader:        Abdelkrim Oka



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALI
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 13
6. Sustainability                                                                     15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    19
9. Partner Comments                                                                   20
10. Additional Information                                                           21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 35
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                      36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P001745                                        Project Name: NATURAL RES. MGMT
Team Leader: Abdelkrim Oka                                 TL Unit: AFTR3
ICR Type.: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: NATURAL RES. MGMT                              L/C/TF Number: TF-26450; IDA-23700;
TF-22955
Country/Department. MALI                                                  Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: VM - Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/01/88                                 Effective:  10/15/92          02/11/93
Appraisal:  03/30/92                                  MTR:  11/20/95              11/20/95
Approval:  05/26/92                                 Closing: 06/30/98            12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: Government of Mali/Ministry for Equipment, Land Use Planning, Environment,
and Urban Affairs
Other Partners: Other cofmanciers included: Norway, Germany, UNDP
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                         Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager.     A. David Craig                             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Sector Manager:      Jean-Paul Chausse                          Salah Darghouth
Team Leader at ICR:   Abdelkrim Oka                             John M. Hall
ICR Primary Author:   Abdelkrim Oka; Lucie Tran
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The primary objective of the Project was to introduce a rational land use system which will stop and
reverse the natural resource degradation process that is currently the greatest threat to sustainable
agricultural growth which relies heavily on these resources. The specific objective of the Project is



two-fold: (a) to build up the capacity of local communities to manage their own natural resources, and
build institutional capacity within the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Environment to enable it to
advise villagers on these matters; and (b) to build an environmental information system for coordinating
and guiding the diverse initiatives underway throughout the country, and incorporate the lessons of those
field experiences into a national Natural resources Management (NRM) strategy.
The project objectives were clear. Rural Mali is poor because people cannot grow enough food for their
own consumption and generate income for their other needs. Climate is harsh and erratic; the ecosystem
fragile and the natural resources (soil, water, vegetation) that are at the basis of any agriculture production
system are becoming increasingly depleted as population grows rapidly and traditional production systems
cannot cope with the new demand. Therefore, new land use and natural resources management systems are
needed. Also, rural communities must take their future in their own hands and public services must assist
them in their endeavor and, for that purpose, need to have the appropriate skills. In that respect, the
objectives of this project properly addressed these issues and the proposed project components were well
suited to achieving these objectives.
The project is complex because of the complex nature of the problems themselves. A high level of
competency in project management, organization, and planning were essential in implementing project
components and activities and posed a serious challenge for the new project management team and staff
from the village level up to the national level. On the Bank's side, the project called for close coordination
with other projects and programs being carried in Mali by both the Bank and other donors in the sector.
The approach towards communities was sound and implemented in four main phases: (i) community
awareness and creation of Natural Resources Management Village Committees (CVGRN); (ii) preparation
of a technical and socio-economic diagnostic for the village; (iii) strategic planning, involving the
elaboration of land-use plans, management plans and investment plans; and (iv) implementation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
(Satisfactory)
To achieve the above objectives, five components were identified and described in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR).
(a) Community Natural Resources Management:  identification, design and implementation of
community-based natural resource management (CBNRM) plans involving about 150 villages within
three administrative regions of Mali and distributed among representative agro-ecological zones of the
country.
(b) Baoule National Park and Biosphere Reserve: design and implementation of a management and
monitoring plan for the Baoul6 National Park, and the establishment and execution of
community-based NRM plans in 10 of the villages which were initially part of the park, but for which
tenure has been transferred to the communities and removed from the park reserve;
(c) Institutional Support for Government Services: institutional support for central and local
- 2 -



government authorities to (i) help with project management and assist rural communities in
implementing their community NRM plans, and (ii) provide the Government with basic environmental
monitoring facilities which could be further developed.
(d) Skills Development and Public Awareness: a comprehensive training and public information/awareness
program on natural resources management.
(e) Technical Assistance and Research: financial support for the provision of technical assistance, audits,
consultant services, applied research and studies required for project implementation.
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no revision to the project components but there were three actions related to these components
that deserve to be mentioned.
Splitting of Components. The two sub-components of Component (c) were treated as two separate
components dunng implementation and for the purpose of progress reporting, namely: Institutional Support
for Government Services which remained as Component (c) and Environmental Information Services
which became Component (f). This did not change the nature or content of the project but only highlighted
the different nature of these two themes and their equal importance.
Increasing the Targeted Number of Villages. The multi-donor mid-term review mission (Nov.-Dec.
1995) followed a high level Bank mission which concluded that: (i) there were too few villages to be
covered for a five-year project period; (ii) the investment envelope per village was too big; (iii) the whole
process was too slow; and (iv) social investments should not be part of such project which should be
restricted to agricultural and NRM activities. As a result, the following changes were made at mid-term:
* increase the number of villages targeted under Component (a) from 150 to 600;
* limit total village investments at CFAF 15 million (US$22,000) on average per village (was
originally CFAF 60 million);
* speed up the process by moving faster through the first three phases of the approach described
above, namely: (i) community awareness and creation of CVGRNs; (ii) preparation of a
diagnostic; (iii) strategic planning; and focusing on Phase (iv) implementation;
v double the number of Field Technical Support Teams;
* involve more technical government staff based in field;
* stop the fimding of social investments (schools and health units); and
* improve linkages with agricultural research and extension and create synergy.
There was a feeling among cofinanciers and Malian project staff that the decisions made by the Bank
mission that took place few days before the multidonor rnid-term review mission prevented the latter from
being free to carry out a truly participatory and consultative exercise. In addition, the increases made to
the physical targets were not accompanied by increase in the total IDA credit but rather by the reduction of
the investment envelope per village.
Adding Communes to the Villages. At the time of project preparation, decentralized local government
and communes did not exist. Since the approach adopted under the project aimed at being participatory
and community-based, the village or rather the "terroir" was found to be the most suitable socio-territorial
unit in rural areas the project could deal with. The "terroir" was defined as made of: (i) the community of a
village; (ii) the land area and the natural resources that are recognized as belonging primarily to that
- 3 -



village; (iii) other communities (herders, gatherers, fishing tribes, etc.) who have some legitimate rights
over some of the land and/or resources deemed to be part of the village; and (iv) the set of customs and
traditional common rules and laws that have been devised and agreed upon by these communities.
Although the terroir approach was successful, the terroir was not a legal entity and did not have an elected
representative body to which the central government's power and authority could be transferred. Therefore,
the approach had some limitation when land tenure, fiscal and financial matters were to be considered.
Mali's decentralization policy started in 1993 and its implementation became effective when the first
communes were created in 1997-98. In May 1998, the Borrower and the Bank agreed to test the "terroir"
approach at the commune level in 50 communes. This implied providing support to these 50 communes
(organization, acquisition of skills, design and implementation of Commune Management and Investment
Plans). As a result, the total number of villages targeted by the project had to be increased by 200, bringing
the total number of villages targeted from 600 to 800.
3.5 Quality at Entry.
(Satisfactory)
The preparation team did very well in providing a good background, a fair diagnostic of the prevailing
environmental, institutional and socio-economic situation, and a comprehensive description of the previous
experiences and lessons learned.
The objectives of the project, as defined at appraisal, were clear, realistic, and important for Mali because
of its fragile natural resource base affected by droughts. There were in phase with the Government's
development strategy for Mali which emphasized: (i) human resources development; (ii) improved
productivity in agriculture; (iii) improved natural resources management; (iv) promotion of private sector
growth; and (v) institutional development. They were also consistent with the objectives of the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which placed priority on education, health, and natural resources
management. The May 1998 Supervision Mission confirmed that the project objectives continued to be in
line with the Borrower and most recent Bank's sector- related, long-term Development Objective defined as
"aiming at improving food security, income and value added and reducing poverty in rural areas."
The project objectives did not make explicit reference to the fact that, in addition to capacity building, the
project aimed at providing communities with financial resources to create socio-economic investments (in
areas such as natural resources management, agricultural production, crop storage and processing,
education, water and sanitation, etc.). This precision, however, is given in the text of the SAR and the cost
tables.
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) clearly establishes the link between rational management of natural
resources, sustainable agricultural growth, local community empowerment, income generation, food
security and, as ultimate goal, poverty alleviation.
The project components were well described in the SAR. They are appropriate and relevant for the
achievement of the project objectives and very complementary. The central component is component (a),
namely the identification, design and implementation of community-based natural resource management
plans by the rural communities themselves. The components dealing with the assistance provided to these
communities by various services (project units, local public services, NGOs and private sector) are
subsidiary components. Similarly, institutional support to the units and services assisting the communities
is a subsidiary component.
The project design took full stock of all past experiences and lessons learned. Project preparation staff
- 4 -



worked very closely with all government and non-govermment agencies as well as donors involved in rural
Mali. The project preparation team was fully aware that project monitoring and evaluation was a powerful
management tool and a key to success and dealt with it adequately. Sufficient time for project preparation
was used and preparation was fully complete well before the project became effective.
The project was audited in July 1999 by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) which made the
following comments on the project design: "this is among a cluster of natural resource management
projects in the Sahel designed in the early 1990's. The approach is to promote better natural resource
management, and reduce environmental degradation, by introducing community-level resource-use plans
negotiated by stakeholders, including herder groups who traditionally are prone to conflictual relations with
farmers . This concept has been widely replicated in the region, and has gained additional momentum as a
result of decentralization policies which have enabled local users' groups to have more say in the allocation
of resources." In its Overall Assessment of Quality, QAG rated the project "a strong 2" (Satisfactory).
QAG also rated the project Satisfactory for (1) Focus on Development Impact; (2) Supervision of
Fiduciary Aspects; Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Processes; and (4) Realism of Project Performance
Ratings. They also stated that more consistent attention and reporting might have brought the overall
rating to a "1".
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
(Overall: Satisfactory)
The project met the overarching objective of introducing a rational land use system which will stop and
reverse the process of degradation of the natural resource base. The approach started showing positive
effects on the degradation process and on agricultural yields and production. Water harvesting and soil
erosion control techniques visibly improved soil fertility, water tables replenishment and re-growth of
natural vegetation. Areas that, prior to the project, became marginal or were not anymore suitable for
agriculture, were rehabilitated and crop yields increased. Production increases for sorghum and millet were
200 percent and 300 percent respectively. Based on a beneficiary assessment done in 1998, overall
agricultural production increased by 47 percent in the project sites. This outcome is satisfactory.
The project succeeded in building up the capacity of local communities and the institutional capacity within
the then Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Environment. Substantial capacity building was achieved
through the project at various levels (central, regional and local) of Government institutions involved in the
project's implementation. Institutional support to public services, particularly to project central and field
units involved the recruitment, training, and deployment of personnel at various levels for assisting the
communities in formulating and implementing their Natural Resource Management (NRM) plans. This
outcome is considered as highly satisfactory.
The project succeeded in building an environmental infornation system. However, because this component
started late, the system is not yet fully operational and more time is required. Therefore, the outcome of
this component is not considered fully satisfactory.
Another impact of the project is that the Community-Based NRM approach (CBNRM - "Gestion des
Terroirs"), tested under the project, was successful and broadly adopted by most communities. It is an
integrated approach to rural space management which takes into account the potential and limitations of the
available natural resources and of the communities that are using and living off these resources. The
approach is based on the rational use of these resources, with the ultimate goal of improving the living
- 5 -



conditions of the rural communities and their sustainable development. The outcome of this integrated
approach is highly satisfactory.
The project succeeded in promoting a very participatory approach putting the communities in the center of
the decision process and helping them strengthen their capacities in the area of development planning,
implementation and management. The project has promoted the creation of NRM Village Councils
(CVGRN) which constituted the foundations for the establishment of Rural Communes and played a
pioneer role in the implementation of the Government's decentralization policy. In several cases, the
CVGRN members were elected as members of the Commune Councils. The outcome of this participatory
method is highly satisfactory.
For the Baoule National Park component, the objective of equiping this park with a management system
that could arrest or reverse land degradation was not fully achieved. A 100 percent increase in wildlife
population was expected. Unfortunately, the monitoring system was not adequate enough to enable
objective measurement of wildlife population. Analysis of monitoring data seems to indicate that the
wildlife numbers have not decreased. During the project, there was a significant area of natural habitat that
was converted to cotton fields. Livestock encroachment, tree cutting and excessive fire continue to be a
threat to the park area. This outcome is considered not satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component (a): Community Natural Resources Management.
(Satisfactory)
This is the key component of the project and one of the most successful. It has given local communities the
capacity to get organized; take stock of their issues, constraints and opportunities; and design and
implement sustainable development plans through a participatory approach that has been successfully
tested. Investments under this component aimed at (i) stopping the current process of natural resources
degradation; (ii) enhancing agricultuml production; and (iii) providing basic economic and social
infrastructure. Some of these investments were expected to have quick and direct effect on rural
communities' living conditions, others were to produce a longer term effect.
By project closing date (Dec. 31, 2000), a total number of 844 villages and 58 communes were reached and
completed the first three main phases of the approach, namely: (i) community awareness and creation of
NRM Village Committees (CVGRN); (ii) technical and socio-economic diagnostic of the "terroir"; and (iii)
development planning. Among those, 807 villages and 30 communes reached the implementation phase.
For the communes, the same four-phase participatory approach was adopted, with the difference that the
NRM Village Committee was replaced by a Communal Bureau appointed by -and representing- the
Commune Council.
The rates of achievements for this component is, at the village level: (a) 538 percent compared to the 1993
initial target; (b) 135 percent compared to the 1995 mid-term target; and (c) 101 percent compared to the
1998 retrofitting mission's target. For the communes level, the rate of achievement was 116 percent for the
first three phases, compared to the 1998 target; and 60 percent for the last phase (Implementation of
Development Plans) which is due to IDA funds being exhausted.
The increase in the number of communities can be perceived as positive but the drawback is that (i) it
required a 30 months project extension; and (ii) communities did not fully achieve the final implementation
- 6-



and investment phase of the process because of insufficient project funds. One solution would have been to
maintain the project targets and closing dates as originally planned and launch a second phase as early as
July 1998, with a larger target, more financial and human resources, and drawing lessons from the first
phase. Nevertheless, the accomplishment of this component remains satisfactory.
Investments in the areas of NRM involved water harvesting and erosion control, soil conservation,
vegetation rehabilitation, production improvement. Several known techniques were utilized: earth and stone
bunds, and sand dune fixation, reforestation, firebreaks, small dykes, controlled grazing, agroforestry,
mulching, etc. Socioeconomic investments included market gardens, livestock improvement, vaccination
parks, small irrigation schemes, grain storage facilities, mills, water supply (wells and boreholes), village
schools, health units, etc. As mentioned earlier, the funding of schools and health units was stopped in late
1995.
Component (b): Baoule National Park and Biosphere Reserve
(Satisfactory)
This component was part of a biological diversity conservation operation for the Baoule National Park
(PNBB), financed in parallel by UNDP and IDA, with UJNDP playing the lead role on the donors' side.
UNDP's financial commitment was US$ 1.50 million and IDA US$1.05 million of which US$0.45 million
for the park itself and US$0.60 million for NRM activities in ten villages in and around the park area. IDA
funds targeted the modification of the boundary of the park, the rehabilitation of roads inside the park, the
rehabilitation of three surveillance posts and a tourist camp, and the follow-up on the preparation and
implementation of the park management plan. UNDP funds were for: the preparation of a park
management plan and the beginning of its implementation; and a capacity building program for the Park
Management Authority. UNDP's completion report is currently under preparation. The results produced
are summarized below.
(a)  The management plan for the whole park was produced and approved but has not been
implemented.
(b)  The institutional capacity of the park staff was improved due to the training and technical
assistance (TA) provided by UNDP. This represented a total of 60 staff-months of long-term
and short-term TA.
(c-i) The physical delimitation of the new park boundaries was carried out with stone markers
(pillars). Park information signs were installed around and in the park. Three surveillance
posts (houses), as well as a visitor camp were rehabilitated. The construction of a peripheral
park trail and the rehabilitation of existing inner trails were not executed. The feasibility study
provided a cost estimate far above the amounts budgeted for in the IDA credit. A second study
was done with lower estimates and bidding documents were prepared but there were delays in
preparing the new study and in having bidding documents cleared by both IDA and the
Government procurement agency due to differences in procedures. By the time the process was
completed, it was too late to have the work executed and completed before the credit closing
date. Similarly, the establishment of livestock corridors was done on maps but not executed in
the field. As a result, herders continue to let their animals go in the protected areas of the park.
(c-ii) A total of 45 villages previously within the park boundaries were provided assistance to help
them design and implement their community development plans as for the other terroirs. The
original target was 10 villages out of a total of 64 villages established within the former park
- 7 -



boundaries. This represents an achievement rate of 450 percent. The 45 villages are part of the
807 villages mentioned above.
(d)   The initial plans to have additional UNDP support through a GEF grant could not materialize
for reasons that could not be determined by the final supervision mission.
From the US$0.45 million allocated by IDA to activities within the park boundaries, only US$0.15 million
were spent mainly because the park trail program was not executed, making the results of the IDA part of
the (b) component unsatisfactory. On the other hand, the envelope spent on the villages of the park area
was US$0.90 million compared to the US$0.60 million originally budgeted, compensating for the unspent
amount from the park budget.
In temns of output, it is considered that the part of this component dealing directly with the park was
somewhat satisfactory while the part dealing with the villages was fully satisfactory. Overall, as the UTNDP
post-evaluation report indicates, this component achieved its objective to a significant extent.
Comnonent (c): Institutional Support for Government Services.
(Highly Satisfactory)
Substantial capacity building was achieved through the project at various levels (central, regional and
local) of Government institutions involved in the project's implementation. Institutional support to public
services, particularly to project central and field units involved the recruiting, training, and deployment of
personnel at various levels for assisting the communities in formulating and implementing their NRM
plans.
The project was expected to have 24 new extension agents recruited and obtain 21 through the IDA-funded
Agricultural Services Project (ASP). Given the sharp increase in the number of villages and the addition of
50 conmmunes, the total number of extension agents reached 169 of which 96 were newly recruited and 73
came from the ASP. Of these 169 agents, 48 were women (over 28 percent) which is a great achievement,
considering that, (i) traditionally field technical staff were male, and (ii) the difficulty in finding women
able and/or willing to work away from the home and family.
In the 13 districts ("cercles") covered by the project, a coordinating unit was established. Ten Technical
Support Teams (EAT) of three technicians and one assistant each were recruited and posted at district level
to provide assistance to the commnunities. At the central level, the Central Coordinating and Monitoring
Unit (UCMO) was staffed with six local technical experts, one Information Technology specialist as well
as four administration and accounting staff.
Between 1993 and 2000, the training program carried out for the staff was impressive: 10,549 person-days
(pd) for extension agents ; 6,824 pd for the EAT based in the cercles (districts) ; 29,247 pd for the
government technical staff located in the field at the "arrondissement" and "cercle" levels; 728 pd for
government technical staff based in the regions; 5322 pd for the staff of UCMO and the Environmental
Monitoring System; and 513 pd for the members of the project's National Coordinating Committee. This
constitutes a total of over 53,000 pd of training representing an achievement rate of 409 percent (13,000 pd
were originally planned). In addition, 1,000 pd of training abroad were provided to project staff. Also,
three regional and two national workshops were held; studies tours were organized in neighboring Burkina
Faso and Niger were similar IDA-supported projects were being implemented. Mali project staff
participated to Bank supervision missions in these two countries.
- 8 -



Component (d): Skdlls Development, Environmental Education and Public Awareness.
(Highly satisfactory)
Capacity building at community level was an important feature of this project. A comprehensive training
and extension program was carried out throughout the project life enabling communities to acquire in
natural resource management, agriculture production, organization and financial management, operation
and maintenance of infrastructure and equipment, etc. Emphasis was put on training of women. In terms
of numbers, a total of 1.9 million pd of training were provided. Training was customized to meet the local
demand and used indigenous knowledge as a base.
Training yielded positive results in terms of application in the field and beneficiaries affirmed its value. A
variety of means was effectively used to address environmental education and promote public awareness so
that it would reach all levels of the public.
Comprehensive Training
Skills development under this component yielded numerous positive results: (a) it promoted better team
spirit in the technical staff in the field; (b) reinforced professional skills, improved the technical and
analytical capacity, and increased involvement and ownership of the villagers with whom the technical staff
worked; and (c) allowed for independence of the technical staff with the result that the quality of
management documents submitted, analytical reports, and management planning, project informnation
docutnentation, etc., improved over the life of the project. At the village level - training had a practical
application and offered variety of topics to the villagers which led to their active participation. Villagers
can now read and understand documents because of adapted methods of training using symbols reflecting
their environment, social and cultural backgrounds. Training was based on participatory methods
(GRAAP, MARP, ZOPP). This helped improve the groups dynamics and composition and contributed to a
common vision towards community-based development across the regions. During Bank supervision
missions, the beneficiaries confirmed that they would not have been able to execute the project without this
training program.
Some project training coordination issues arose. In different interviews with beneficiaries during Bank
supervision missions, the point also emerged that training given under the NRM Project and the
Agricultural Services Project (ASP) were complementary, but that planning the training together was a
problem since the ASP's training was done in a detailed planning manner, while training given under the
NRM Project was done "a la carte" reflecting the different approaches of the two projects.
Literacy Training
Literacy courses were provided through 356 centers and in six languages and benefited over 6,700 people
including 1,900 women. About 2,090 villagers (of which 503 women) were trained to teach literacy courses
in their own villages. Initially, literacy posed a problem in implementing some of the project's components
at the village community level, particularly for the community NRM plans and village investments
portions. The timing of training sessions given to village communities were sometimes carried out at an
awkward time for farmers, depending on the season, and sometimes were not frequent enough.
Public Education and Environmental Awareness Raising
Numerous methods and campaigns were used for raising public awareness and promoting environmental
education. These included publishing project information in various information bulletins of prominent
-9-



national newspapers ("I'Essor" and "Les Echos"), sensitization sessions including radio and television
programs on NRM, publishing 21 articles in widely circulated national newspapers, four audio-visual
sketches on national television, four radio programs and two national conference debates for radio listeners,
production of a movie on the CBNRM approach in four languages, design and distribution of NRM logos,
inclusion of the NRM Project in the National Agenda of Mali, and production, in collaboration with GTZ,
of a theater play on NRM.
Component (e): Technical Assistance and Research.
(Satisfactory)
Technical Assistance. Consultations and Audits. As part of a Gernan technical assistance cooperation
program, the NRM project had four GTZ technical assistants for three years (1993-1995) and two for an
additional four years (1996-1999). In addition, GTZ provided short term technical assistance (TA). The
TA had expertise in natural resources management, introduction of appropriate technologies, training,
monitoring and evaluation, and others.
Technical assistance was also provided by UNDP for the OPNBB component. It was for a total of 60 staff
months of which part was a full time TA (one UN volunteer) and part short-term consultants in various
park-related fields.
A medium-term technical assistance was funded under the Norwegian trust fund for 100 person-months
over a period of 5 years.  The assistance was in participation training for adults, NRM, and
socio-anthropology.  The trust fund also financed consultants for the land testing module for 60
person-days, and the mid-term review for 108 person-days.
IDA funding was provided for several consultancies: (i) the preparation of an implementation manual for
administrative and financial matters and establishment of a financial and accounting system; (ii) studies on
land tenure, Women in Development (WID), forestry, livestock and extension; (iii) a compendium on the
introduction of new technologies; (iv) the organization of training and preparation of training modules; (v)
the evaluation of the training program; (vi) the design and implementation of a Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E) system; and (vi) a beneficiary assessment of project impact. IDA funded a total of 145
person-months.
Financial and accounting audits were carried out every year for seven years totaling 7 person-months.
Applied Research. A US$300,000 envelope was set aside for applied research. Some research topics
were identified at the early stage of the project and discussed with the Rural Economy Institute (IER) but
no agreement was reached for the implementation of the research program. The main reasons were that (i)
repeated delays in preparing a research program agreement partly due to changes in the research team; (ii)
lack of interest of IER already busy with its own research program for which financial resources were
available; (iii) part of their research program already covered the topics identified under PGRN; and (iv)
research was not a key priority for the success of the project. In addition, UCMO had no direct control or
authority over IER to make things happen as it had for the community-based activities.
Component (f): Environmental Monitoring (EM), Environmental Information System (EIS).
(Satisfactory)
Activities under this component aimed at: (i) a better understanding of the evolution and degradation of
- 10 -



natural resources and the causes in order to devise and implement appropriate policies and mitigation
measures; and (ii) an evaluation of the impact of NRM investments on the replenishment of these natural
resources and on the production base. The first activity consisted in the capacity building of several
national institutions: training, equipment in tools for data base management, maps, and network
development. The second activity aimed at evaluating the impact, at community level and in different
NRM projects, of local investments, in terms of improvement of the environment, the production base and
the socio-economic conditions. The Planning and Statistics Unit (CPS) in the Ministry of Rural
Development (MDRE) was made responsible for the coordination of this component.
Very little was achieved under this component between 1993 and 1996. Lack of commitment from CPS
was the main reason in terms of lack of incentives for CPS staff. Also, control and coordination by UCMO
was difficult, since the component was not directly attached to UCMO and was not even, at one point of
time, part of the same ministry. It is only in 1997 that the component was finally transferred to UCMO and
the work started. Lengthy procurement procedures for the purchase of equipment also contributed to
delays. However, the following positive results were achieved:
*  a network of six national agencies established a network, harmonized their environmental
monitoring data: "Institut Geographique du Mali" (IGM), "Direction Nationale de l'Amenagement
et de lEquipement Rural" (DNAER), "Direction Nationale de la Meteorologie" (DNM), "Direction
Nationale de la Statistique et de l'Informatique" (DNSI), "Institut d'Economie Rurale" (IER),
"Cellule de Planification et de Statistique du MDRE" (CPS/MDRE);
*   training of the network members in information technology and data base management (24 staff);
photo interpretation (34 staff); web page design and web browser use (20 staff); and desktop
editing software (10 staff);
*   establishment of environmental and natural resources data bases;
*  production of six reference manuals on methodology for environmental information management;
?  photo interpretation for 10 project sites;
?   digitalization of several maps by IGM, DNCN and DNAER; and
*   construction of a web site on institutions dealing with environment in Mali and their mandate and
structure.
At present, the overall responsibility of the EIS has been assigned to the "Secretariat Technique Permanent
du Cadre Institutionnel de la Gestion des Questions Environnementales" (STP-CIGQE) directly linked to
the "Ministere de l'Equipement, de l'Amenagement du Territoire, de l'Environnement et de l'Urbanisme"
(MEATEU). The STP-CIGQE will be responsible for implementing and coordinating the various
environmental networks in Mali.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable. As for all the other NRM projects, the net present value and the economic and financial
rates of return were not considered for the project at the design stage because a large share of the project
expenditures were for capacity building, natural resource rehabilitation activities and social investment for
which economic and financial outputs are very difficult to measure. Economic and financial rates of return,
could have been monitored and calculated for individual economic and productive investments although
these represented only a small part of the total project costs. In any future project of this nature, all efforts
should be made to include, in the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system, all the procedures and criteria
required for calculating the financial and economic returns of most investments.
- 11 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable (see above).
4.5 Institutional development impact:
(Highly satisfactory)
Because institutional development was one of the objectives of this project, institutional development
impact has been mentioned under the "Achievement of Objectives and Outputs" section of this ICR.
Village Level. The project succeeded in building up the institutional capacity of local communities through
the creation of NRM Village Councils (CVGRNs) and teaching them planning, implementation and
management skills. The CVGRNs were created where no institutions previously existed and, through
project activities, introduced the village communities to the concept and processes of community-based
resource management. Collective decision-making capabilities have been improved, and CVGRNs have
implemented community investments and created revolving funds that are now managed independently by
the communities themselves.
The CVGRNs are perceived as having established the foundations for the building up of rural communes.
In several cases, CVGRN members were elected at the Commune Councils because of their experience in
community affairs management where they have proven their ability to act in a responsible and accountable
way; and because they were already recognized by their peers as their legitimate representative. Therefore,
through CVGRNs, the project played a pioneer role in the implementation of the Governments
decentralization policy.
Commune Level. Prior to the communes, inter-village support was provided through the "Comites
Inter-Villageois de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles" (CIVGRN).  In this respect, through the
strengthening of beneficiary communities capacity to plan and manage their resources, the project has
impacted positively on the institutional environment within which the government decentralization policy
was shaped and progressively implemented. All villages covered by the project are by definition members
of a commune (as the latter is simply a grouping of villages on a consensual basis). Also, as many members
of the CVGRN and the C1VGRN were elected as members of the commune councils these councils are
better equipped and able to promote the project participatory approach at the commune level and establish
a distinction between the respective mandates of the villages and their commune. This was not possible to
achieve without the project which promoted an important literacy program for CVGRN members.
Central Government Level. The capacity of central government services involved in the project has been
significantly strengthened and staff of these institutions increased their knowledge, developed new expertise
and are now able to provide better and broader support to villagers on various matters beyond the scope of
NRM, focusing more on community driven development and integrated rural development, bringing
together technical, social, economic and environmental dirnensions. Today, Government is strongly
supportive of the project approach and its relation to poverty alleviation and decentralization policies. It is
fully comnitted to the endeavour.
The National Baoule Bend Park Authoritv (OPNBB). The "Office du Parc National de la Boucle du
Baoule" is operational despite the setbacks caused by the late start-up, delayed disbursements, and frequent
ministry reshuffling which affected its implementation and operations. The experience gained by
collaborating with the project has been a valuable experience in terms of learning by doing. The authority's
institutional capacity has been improved.
-12 -



Environmental Institutions. The project made significant contributions to the establishment and
strengthening of institutions involved in environmental conservation. Valuable information on the country's
environmental problems has been generated and started being disseminated through education and public
awareness program extending to the grassroots level. This initiative however needs greater government and
institutional commitment and a more proactive attitude from these institutions.
Monitoring and Evaluation. In the SAR M&E was not considered as a component but as a project
management tool consisting of monitoring: (a) project implementation; (b) socioeconomic and
phyto-ecological impact; and (c) environmental impact.  For the environmental impact monitoring,
however, there seems to be a confusion between this activity as a project management tool and as
Component (d) of the project. In any case, M&E was given a great importance in the project.
Monitoring of project implementation was set up at the early stage of the project under GTZ technical
assistance. It covered mostly the monitoring of physical investments at community level and of the training
program. The costs associated with these investments and training were estimated but did not link with the
project financial and accounting system and did not allow for analytical accounting or costs-benefits
analyses per activity or component. However, data collected were very detailed and useful for the
preparation of regular progress reports.
Monitoring of project impact was introduced by the Bank supervision team in 1998. In the absence of
sound systems for impact monitoring and evaluation, a new system was conceived and tested in Mali as
part of a regional initiative funded in part by a regional Norwegian Trust Fund. It included not only the (i)
socioeconomic and (ii) phyto-ecological impact but also the impact on (iii) local community capacity
development and empowerment and on (iv) the institutional development of the agencies providing support
to communities. Because of its experimental nature, its conception, the identification of measurable impact
indicators and the setting up of the system was slow. It was also confronted with the absence of baseline
data which should have been collected at the project start and with the closing of the project in December
2001. While the system is now in place and satisfactory, its effective use for impact monitoring will be
better assessed with the next phase as baseline data will be collected before project start and impact-related
indicators will be regularly monitored from the first day. Because of the above and in order to obtain data
on the impact of the project on a less scientific basis, a beneficiary assessment was launched in 1998-1999
taking a sample of 15 villages. The results of this study provided a very useful feedback on how
beneficiaries perceived project results and enabled the project team to make adjustments to the more
comprehensive M&E system being implemented.
Even with the shortcomnings mentioned above, this project played a pioneer role in setting up a unique and
comprehensive M&E system which will be fully operational in the next phase.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency.
Rapid population growth, harsh and erratic clirnate with frequent droughts have put great pressure on land
and natural resources creating conflicts between neighboring communities and between farmers and
herders. The 1996 and 1997 droughts disrupted agricultural plantation calendars and project agenda.
The decline of market prices for crops (cotton, cereals) and livestock have discouraged people from
investing in the rural sector and financial institutions from entering the sector. Also, the high price of fossil
- 13 -



energy combined with poverty have forced rural as well as urban Mali to rely heavily on fuelwood calling
for further environmental degradation.
The shrinking of the investment envelope per community due to the project scaling-up at mid-term review
(increase of the number of villages from 150 to 600 without budget increase); the obligation made under the
project for the communities to contribute to the investments; and the prevailing high poverty levels in most
of the project area have influenced communities to give preferences and higher priority to social
investments over natural resources conservation and management activities although these are sine qua non
conditions for sustainable agricultural production. In addition, decision was made by the Bank at the
mid-term review to stop paying villagers for their labor on soil and water conservation activities and
consider labor as part of their contribution. These activities are very labor intensive and have no short but
long-term impact.
The 400 percent increase due to the mid-term scaling up in terns of nuumber of villages to be reached was
done without budget increases and could not be met with a proportional increase of staff (particularly with
well trained staff). This had an adverse effect on the volume and quality of the support provided to
communities and put stress on the staff.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Ministry restructuring affected this component. During project preparation, the ministry in charge was the
Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Environment (MAEE in French) and both UCMO and CPS were
under MAEE. In 1992, it became the Ministry for Rural Development and Environment (MDRE in
French). In 1993, the MDRE split in two: the Ministry of Environment (ME) and the Ministry for Rural
Development and Livestock (MDRE in French). At that point UCMO was transferred to ME and CPS to
MDRE. In 1994, the ME disappeared and enviromnent was re-transferred to MDRE. In 1997, ME was
created again and UCMO was transferred again to ME. In 2000, ME became the Ministry for Equipment,
Land Use Planning, Environment and Urbanism.
This repeated restructuring caused instability in some of the implementing units, in particular the
Multidisciplinary Teams (EPD). This resulted in training of new technical staff at the regional and local
levels and placed an additional burden on the project's central level staff and on the training category.
Other negative factors included the shortage of government technical staff who made up the EPD, the low
level of motivation (due to lack of incentives) in other staff involved in the project; and government delays
in providing adequate office space for the Technical Support Teams (EAT). These issues affected the pace
of project implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
In general terms, the implementing agency, UCMO, was very efficient in ensuring proper project
implementation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project closed at a total project cost of about US$32.48 million representing slightly over 100 percent
of original prevision (US$32.10 million). The IDA credit of an amount of SDR 15.00 million (about
US$20.40 million at appraisal), was fully disbursed. With the exchange rate fluctuations, the SDR15.00
million corresponded actually to US$20.79 million of which US$20.78 million were disbursed. The
Norwegian Trust Fund (TF 22955) approved at NOK 30.00 million (US$5.00 million equivalent) was fully
- 14 -



disbursed (US$4.30 million equivalent).  Differences in dollar amounts are due to exchange rate
fluctuations.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
(Likely)
The sustainability question was addressed at three levels:
*   Is the project as a whole sustainable, meaning can the project with all the activities continue to run
without IDA donor/Government funding?
*   Will the communities (villages or communes) that have received project assistance during this past
phase be able to function and grow without the project support?
*   Will the individual investments financed under the project continue to be operated, well managed,
maintained and ultimately replaced and expanded without the project technical and financial
support?
Sustainability at Project level. This project was originally conceived as the first five-year time slice of a
long-term national program to provide the necessary support to village communities to help them establish,
implement and monitor village management plans covering the natural resources in their communities.
Further, the SAR highlights the experimental nature of this first phase, stating that "the proposed project is
regarded as the initial five-year experimental phase of a 15-20 year national program." Therefore,
sustainability was not expected to be achieved after this first experimental phase, even if this first phase is
successful.
Sustainability at Community level. Of the communities reached through the project, only a few have been
provided the level of assistance needed for the communities to reach an acceptable level of capacity and
investments that would have allowed them to become sustainable. The reason is that, at mid-term review, it
was decided to increase the number of village by 400 percent without increasing the credit envelope. This
meant a much lower level of investment by community (less than 25 percent of the original envelope).
Moreover, the increase in the number of communities resulted in the rapid recruitment and training of
additional field support staff and in the speeding up of the process which, is some cases affected the
quality of the work done at community level in terms of capacity building. The project staff, however, did
a remarkable job dealing with these constraints.
As a result, at the end of this experimental phase, there is a much higher number of communities reached
than planned. However, few reached the final stage and completed the implementation and investment
program. Although scaling up increased the number of villages, it delayed achieving objectives on time for
others. To ensure sustainability, communities need to be assisted until a reasonable level of capacity is
reached before progressively withdrawing support. The proper identification of such a threshold is very
important.
In the second phase, there will be a need to complete what has been successfully started in Phase-l
(consolidation). There are, nonetheless, several actions carried out under the project that have proven to be
sustainable and that can justify expansion for the second phase:
*   the community-based approach to NRM  has been recognized by all stakeholders including
Govemment and has been adopted widely in the country as well as in the region;
- 15-



*   communities have become fully aware of the extent of their land and natural resources, their
potential and limits;
*   there is a sense of ownership by the communities of their community management plans in which
they have prioritised their needs and actions;
* village communities are supportive of the newly created governments (communes) because,
through their CVGRN, they have been involved and are stakeholders;
* village committees are a reality and are fully committed to pursuing the work initiated as long as
they receive the assistance under the project; and
*   women have acquired knowledge and are now playing a role in community matters.
Sustainability at the Level of each Investment. Sustainability is to be addressed for each investment
being financed under the project. If all investments, taken individually, are sustainable, then the project as
a whole is sustainable. Since there were no plans for this project to calculate an economic rate of return,
no data is available to carry out such analysis with accuracy. Based on data that was available most types
of investments funded under the project are sustainable when properly managed and maintained, and
community members responsible for these investments have been properly trained and are aware of the
importance of good maintenance.
The constraints on sustainability are: (i) poor management skills due to illiteracy; (ii) lack of labor for
maintenance due to migration; (iii) poor income generated by some ill chosen investments; (iv) poor
recovery rate of exploitation costs for some community investments (schools, health units, grain mills,
water points, etc.); (v) poor design of investments or poor technological choices; (vi) conflicts between
community groups; and (vi) issues regarding land tenure and legal ownership of collective investments. For
investments at the commune level, limited financial and technical capacity of the communes presents
another constraint.
Sustainability is rated as likely. Community empowerment through a participatory approach was an
integral part of the long-term objective of this project Building capacity in rural conmmunities through
participatory planning and management tools were also considered as bases for building long-term
sustainability. From the results of the project, these objectives have been achieved. In spite of the
significant scaling-up in the number of targeted communities following the mid-term  review, the
empowerment of local communities kept up with the pace and did not suffer significantly. Evidence shows
that these communities were capable of replicating on their own the planning and management tools they
had acquired through the project and of implementing those plans.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
This project constituted the first and experimental phase of a long-term program aiming at building up the
capacity of local communities to manage their own natural resources in order to achieve sustainable
production and growth, increase their income, improve their food security and eliminate poverty. The
success of this first phase has encouraged the government and the Bank to launch the preparation of a
second phase that will built on the first one and will be even more community-driven as decentralization
policy has led to the creation of communes that are the legally empowered representatives of the
communities allowed to make decisions over natural resources and manage funds independently.
Community-Driven Development. The second phase will focus mainly on assisting communities at village
and commune levels to further develop their technical and managerial skills and on providing financial
support to finance the preparation and implementation of community development plans. Performance
indicators will measure the impact of the project on four areas: (i) state of natural resources and
- 16 -



environment; (ii) living conditions of rural communities; (iii) empowerment of rural communities; and (iv)
reinforcement of community support services (public, NGO and private sector).
Baoule National Park Under the next phase, the NRM project would continue to work with villages and
communes in the park area but will not deal with the Park itself as another donor, France, will be financing
a transitional arrangement to improve the park's management unit capacity and UNDP is seeking GEF
funding for the implementation of the park management plan.
Environmental Monitoring. It was agreed that this component should continue to be supported either
through an environmental project to be funded under GEF or, if not feasible, through the next phase of this
project. Final decision will be taken during the preparation of the second phase of the NRM project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
(Satisfactory)
The Bank's performance during preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The Bank provided adequate
resources in terms of staff weeks and dollar amount during the lending phase to enable it to carry out the
necessary preparation and appraisal work. The missions were adequately staffed with an appropriate skills
mix to address the issues and concerns. The objectives were coherent with the Bank's strategy in Mali at
the time and the approach was innovative in its use of community-based approaches to natural resources
management. The project also benefited from strong Borrower commitment and ownership of natural
resources management initiatives, as well as accumulated experience gained from other programs from
donor agencies and ongoing Bank projects at the time with which it had to collaborate (GERENAT,
Agricultural Services, Forestry II, Mopti Area Development, Office du Niger, etc.). However, the number
of effectiveness and disbursements conditions were numerous and could have been moved for negotiations
to prevent delays in project start up. Also, the design of the project cost table groupings could have
reflected more closely the write-up of the components in the SAR.
The project preparation staff correctly identified most risks, particularly the (a) drop in Government's
continued commitment; (b) insufficient understanding and implementation of CBNRM approach and (c)
lack of coordinating authority of the project's Central Implementing Unit (UCMO). The actions taken to
mitigate those risks were adequate. Govemment support and commitment grew stronger over the project
life and the CBNRM approach was fully understood and stakeholders took ownership of the approach,
now adopted nationwide. UCMO, however was not fully successfull in getting other partner institutions
on board to properly executing their components. This was beyond UCMO's control as these institutions
are not under UCMO's authority and, in some cases, not even under the same ministry. The project
preparation staff did not anticipate the decision to drastically increase the number of sites covered by the
project. The staff also underestimated the constraints and problems caused by the high illiteracy rates
prevalent in the country and its impact project execution but took the appropriate mitigation measures by
implementing a very agressive and successful litteracy program. The staff was too optimistic in assessing
the capacity of beneficiary conmnunities to contribute cash and labor to the village investment projects. This
will constitute a lesson for the next operation.
7.2 Supervision:
(Satisfactory)
Supervision by the Bank has been rated satisfactory. Although there were some longer gaps in supervision
- 17 -



missions in the latter half of the project's life (possibly due to budget constraints), supervision missions
were attentive to development issues and to keeping a focus on the major points. Missions skills mix were
adequate and since May 1998, field staff played a more important role in project supervision.
Collaboration with other donors proceeded smoothly.
The QAG noted that supervision has been highly attentive to development issues and kept the project focus
in the right places. Issues have been well identified and their significance for the overall operation are
clearly presented in supervision reports. It rated the Identification and Assement of Problems "Highly
Satisfactory".
7.3 OverallBankperformance:
(Satisfactory)
The Bank's overall performance is satisfactory. From the design phase to implementation, the Bank staff
developed a pioneer project in NRM using a participatory approach and introduced a collaborative,
program-oriented approach. Although better results could have been obtained in the Baoule National Park
component, the Bank generally confronted any important issues and reacted in a timely manner to correct
any major problems. It also emphasized cooperation with other donors in the sector in Mali as well as
coordination with other IDA-supported projects. In supervision, the Bank was flexible and adapted well to
changes without losing focus on the main objectives of the project. However, the Bank mission that
preceded by a few days the multi-donor mid-term review mission and decided on scaling up was perceived
by cofinanciers and project staff as altering the spirit of collaboration, participation, and consultation
among donors and with the borrower.
The QAG commented that during FY99, the project has had excellent attention to social development and
was well-rated for attention to financial management. QAG felt that given the significance of this
operation, more frequent missions would have been useful, but that care was taken to document important
decisions and to ensuring that lessons learnt were being captured. The QAG also comnmended the task team
on its "high standards" and rated the Overall Assessment of Quality as a strong "2".
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
(Satisfactory)
The borrower was fully committed to the approach of the project and the proposed design. In fact, this
approach was endorsed during a regional meeting on desertification and natural resources management in
Segou, Mali in 1989, hosted by the Malian Govenmment and bringing together representatives of
governments, donors, regional organizations (CILSS and Club du Sahel), NGOs, local community, and
other members of the civil society. The project design was inspired by the recommendation of that regional
meeting. The borrower was fully involved in project preparation and mobilized all the competent staff
available.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
(Satisfactory)
The Government provided full support to this project and a great level of autonomy without undue
interference. It also greatly facilitated coordination among the different services involved in the components
dealing with community capacity building and community investments. Similar support to project's
peripheral components such as EIS and Baoule could have improved their outputs, however, without the
- 18 -



involvement of the Goveniment, the park's biological resources would have had little chance of being
restored.
The financial and accounting system of the project was well managed, the level of disbursements improved
during the latter part of the project, and compliance with legal covenants was considered exemplary by
Bank supervision missions.
7.6 ImplementingAgency:
(Satisfactory)
UCMO, the coordinating and main implementing unit, was well organized and well staffed from the start of
the project with the same team remaining in place for most of the project period. The current project
director was present from the project preparation stage. Project staff in the field and at headquarters are
well trained, competent and committed and UCMO implements the project in a timely manner. The scaling
up which was decided at the mid-term review called on the staff to focus more on delivery of quantity
rather than quality. This has frustrated the staff but did not stop them from achieving the new targets.
In terms of financial management, project accounts were audited regularly every year and the audits
showed an adequate compliance with the administrative, accounting and financial requirements from the
beginning of the project period. The final audit for the project following its closing is in progress.
Compliance with Legal Covenants was generally satisfactory.
OPNBB Funds were made available to the park authority (OPNBB). However, the latter was not very
proactive. During the project period, the leadership of OPNBB changed several times (and so did the staff
of the umbrella ministry). As a result, continuity suffered in terms of institutional memory, planning, and
implementation. The application of conservation laws became a problem (judges dismiss cases of livestock
encroachment on park territory). UCMO managed remotely the part of this component dealing with
biological diversity conservation and focussed on communities living in villages in and around the park.
This was understandable as OPNBB was formally responsible for the park. UCMO, on the other hand, did
a very good job with the communities.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
(Satisfactory)
As stated in the QAG  report, Mali is among the African countries most committed to this
(community-based NRM) approach, and to decentralization generally. Strong awareness of the fragility of
the resource base due to recurrent drought makes this an area of considerable interest to policy makers.
8. Lessons Learned
*   Listening to the stakeholders at all levels and working closely with them from project inception to
completion is a key to success. Top down approaches are definitely obsolete features of the past.
*   The participatory, conununity-based, community-driven approach adopted throughout the project cycle
has produced positive results. People are more willing to invest in the long-term and properly operate
and maintain their investments. Participatory processes may take more time but results are more
durable.
*  Beneficiary assessment and feedback are indispensable but must be backed by tangible data on impacts
- 19 -



(socio-economic, environmental and natural resources, capacity building and institutional
development).
* Economic and financial rates of return, should be individually measured for productive investments and
taken into consideration in designing the project Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system.
*   Literacy is a necessary condition for successfully achieving local community empowerment and
sustainable resource management.
*   Local community empowerment and capacity building require assistance from  strengthened
government, non-government and private agencies, each playing a specific complementary role.
*   Decentralization must be accompanied by a deconcentration of government services to promote better
dialogue and coordination between local and central governments.
*   Regular supervision missions are essential in the context of community-based approaches to enable
stakeholders to maintain a common vision of the project and adjust to community evolving needs.
*   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) should be designed not only as a management tool for central
government and donors but also for all decision-makers at every level, starting with the communities. It
should remain simple and integrated into one system.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower provided its final report and notified the Bank that it had no comments on the draft ICR
received.
(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments have been received from the cofinanciers to date. However, UNDP did send a copy of its
annual report on the Baoule National Park component. This report is included in the list of supporting
documents (Annex 7).
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
- 20 -



10. Additional Information
Types of Investments
and Number of villages having Benefited
from this type of investment
Investment             Number of           Investment         Number of
Villages                               Villages
Literacy centers                    314       Mini dams                    109
Stone borders                       729       Firebreaks                   339
Fodder crop cultivation             371       Village tree nurseries       230
Filter canals and barriers          369       Vegetable garden             163
Earth bunds                         262       Small equipment              633
Forestry upgrades/development       74        Small field plantations      247
Pastoral upgrades/development       59        Large wells                  200
Improved stoves                     574       Reforestation                265
Organic fertilizer                  687       Pond cleaning                 12
Live hedging/fencing                583
- 21 -



Elaboration d'un Plan de Gestion du Terroir
Preparation of a Community-Based Terroir Management Plan
Document
Pham              Et"                        Avs                           Whode            dAm6nagemiiut st de
Gestlon attendus
Preparation    Prise de contact   - Visite du village                 - Assemblee villageoise   Rapport de mission
et echange d'idees    - Sensibilisation initiale        - GRAAP                 PV des reunions
entre techniciens et   - Discussions techniciens & villageois                   villageoises
villageois          - Explication de la demarche PGT
Creation drun       - Formation, information et         - Assemblee villageoise
Comite Villageois de   sensibilisation
GRN (CVGRN)
Diagnostic    Diagnostic         - Formation, sensibilisation et      - Exploitation de la   Rapport MARP
socio-economique    information                          documentation
- Etude de la documentation existante  existante
- Preparation de la methodologie    (monographies
- Collecte des informations sur      villageoises existantes,
- le milieu humain et rhabitat      registres de
- le budget et la consommation      recensement,
statistiques ag,coles
- Formation, information sensibilisation    - Assemble villageoise
- Analyse                           - Enquete participative
- du milieu physique et des ressources    - MARP
naturelles                         - Intervew
- des systemes de production        - Visite de terrain
- Identification et hierarchisation des  - Discussion avec les
problimes generaux                 villageois
- Identification des mesures incitatives    - Discussion avec les  - Fiche de projet
et etude sur la faisabilite        villageois              mesures incitatives
Diagnostic          - Dblimitation du terroir           - Photolecture          - Carte du terroir
physique detaille   - Identification et description des unites    - Discussions avec  - Carte des unites de
et sous-unites de paysage          CVGRN et personnes      paysage et des unites
- Identification et description des types    ressources     homogenes
d'utilisation actuelle de terre    - Visite de terrain    - Tableau descriptif des
- Analyse et hierarchisation des                            unitMs et sous-unites
problemes generaux et spcifiques a                        - Tableau des types
chaque unite Isous-unite de paysage                        d'utilisation actuel
- Evaluation des tendances evolutives  - Discussion avec ies  - Carte d'utilisation
- Redaction du diagnostic du terroir  villageois en assemblee   actuelle des unites de
- Restitution du diagnostic du terroir  generale            paysage
- Corrections et redaction finale                          - Tableau et Carte des
problemes
- Rapport diagnostic
terroir
- 22 -



Planifica6on    Elaboration dun  - Execution des mesures incitatives  - Discussion/n6gociation   - Document Schema
Schema             - Identification, analyse et         avec le CVGRN          d'Amenagement du
d'Amenagement        hierarchisation des objectifs     - Assemblee villageoise    Terroir
du Terroir          - Choix des types d'utlisation potentielle
et leurs exigences
- Evaluation des vocations de chaque
unite de paysage
- Restitution au reste des villageois
- Affectation negociee des unites a une
vocaton
- Signature du SAT par le CVGRN, le
CDA et l'Animateur PAT/chef EAT
Eaboration dun     - Identification et localisation des actions    Discussion avec le  - Document sur
Plan                 damAnagement par unite homogAne    CVGRN                  I'analyse de faisabilite
dAmenag,ement       - Identification des mesures       - Discussion avec les   des mesures
du Tenroir           d'accompagnement et des actins     villageois            - Document Plan
socio-productives                 - Photolecture          d'Amenagement du
- Analyse de la faisabilite        - Expertise a courte    Terroir
soclo-conomique, socioculturelle,  duree                  avec des cartes de
financiere, technique et technologique                    localisation des
des actions et mesures envisagees                         infrastructures et
equipements
importants
- Programmaton globale des actions
dans le temps et dans lespace
- Negociation du Plan dAmenagement
(engagements redproques)
- Signature du Plan dAmbnagement par
le CVGRN, le Commandant du Cercie
et un representant de l'UCMO
Elaboration du     - Etudes detaill6es des actions et  - Formation technique  - Plan de Geshion du
Plan de Gestion      mesures techniques et              des villageois         Terroir
du Terroir           daccompagnement                   - Discussion avec le   - Carte de localisation
- Planification detaillee dans le temnps et   CVGRN        precise des
dans l1espace des mesures et actions    - Discussion avec  infrastructures et des
sur deux ans                       I'assembl&e generale   equipements retenus
- Signature du PGT adopte par le   - Traduction du PGT en
CVGRN, le Gouverneur et le Directeur   langue local
du prcjet
Execution   Mise en ceuvre du   - Rappel du PGT adopte                                     - Rapport sur l'tat
Plan de Gestion    - Execution des mesures et actions                          d'execution du PGT
du Terroir           prevues selon la programma6on                            - Plan de Ges6ion
convenue dans le PGT                                      revise
- Suivi et evaluation continu
- Revision/reajustement du PGT
-23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
OUTPUT INDICATORS
INDICATORS
OUTPUT DESCRIPTION        PROJECTED IN SAR        REVISED IN IID-TERM          REVISED AT                 ACTUAL
(1993)            REVIEW (Dec. 1996)       RESTRUCTURING
MISSION (May 1998)
ComnponerA (a}Identify 150 villages              600 villages             800 villages + 50        844 villages (45 in Park
Identification, design and   (induding 10 in Park                         communes                 Baoulb) + 58 communes
implementation of        Baoule)
Community-Based Natural Help communities design   600 villages            800 + 50 communes        844 villages + 58
Resource Management    their Community-Based                                                       communes
Plans involving 150     Natural Resource
villages (including 10 in  Management Plan
Parck Baoule)           (Community Development
Plan) in 150 villages
Help communities        600 villages             800 + 50 communes        807 villages + 30
implement their                                                           communes
Community-Based Natural
Resource Management
Plan (Community
Development Plan) in 150
villages
Component lb)            Produce a Park                                                            Completed (100%)
Design and              Management Plan
implementation of a     Install boundary markers                                                   Completed (100%)
Management and
Monitodng Plan for the  Install park signs                                                         Completed (100%)
Baoulb National Park and   Rehabilitate 3 surveillance                                             Completed (100%)
establishment & execution  posts and 1 tourist camp
of Community-Based NRM  Rehabilitation of 561 km                                                   Completed feasibility study
Plans in 10 border villages  of park road                                                          and bidding documents
only
Establishing livestock                                                    Partially completed (30%)
cornidors
Open boundary trail                                                       Not completed
Build OPNBB capacity                                                      Completed
Initiate Implementation of                                                Not completed.
Park management plan
Component Ic)            Mobilize 45 Extension   Mobilize:                Increase number of       Mobilized:
Institutionnal support for   Agents, 10 local     90 Ext. Agents,         extension agents to reach   169 Extension Agents
central and local        coordinators, 3 regional    20 local coordinators  the ratio of one agent for 5  including 48 women, 13
governement authorties to  coordinators, 3 regional    6 regional coordinators  villages           district coordinators, 6
help vith project        accountants, 5 technical   6 regional accountants                         regional coordinators, 10
management and assist   support teams (15        10 technical support teams                        technical support teams
rural communities in    technicians), 6 technical  (30 technicians), 6                             (30 technicians), 6
implementing their      staff for Central Im     technical staff for Central                      technical staff for Central
community NRM plans.    plementation and         Im pementation and                                Implementation and
Coordination Unit       Coordination Unit                        __       Coordination Unit
- 24 -



INDICATORS
OUTPUT DESCRIPTION    PROJECTED IN SAR    REVISED IN AND-TERM             REVISED AT                ACTUAL
(1993)           REVEW (Dw. 1995)        RESTRUCTURING
MISSION (May 1998)
Component (d)          1500 village-days of                                                  1,900,000 person-days
Comprehensive training   sensitization.
and public             2000 inter-village-days of
information/awareness    meetings.
program on natural     Public information and
resource management.   awareness campaigns.
1200 staff-days of
periodic team planning
meetings
6200 staff-days of trainin                                            10,549 person-days of
of trainers for extension                                             extension agents.
agents and technical                                                  36,700 person-days of
support teams                                                         regional technicians
5800 person-days of central
staff
None                                                                  Retraining 738 litteracy
teacher (302 women).
None                                                                  Training 1352 future
litteracy teacher (201
women).
None                                                                  Litteracy courses for 6,700
persons (1,900 women),
None                                                                  21 press articles
8 radio & television
programs
. .===    =      =_____________ =____________________   _____________________         2 conferences
-25 -



INDICATORS
OUTPUT DESCRInPON    PROJECTED IN SAR    REMSED IN MD-TERM                  REVISED AT               ACTUAL
(1993)           REVIEW (Dec. 1995)       RESTRUCTURING
ISSION (M  1998)
ComPoMntr (e}Medium-term TA for 2.5                                                            Full time TA was provided
Financial support for the   years to CIMU by GTZ.                                             for 3 years by 4 experts
provision of technical  (land use planning, adult                                              and 4 years by 2 experts
assistance, consultant    training, monitoring and
services, audits, applied   Evaluation): 90
research and studies   staff-months
Medium-Term TA for skill                                               Short-term TA for skill gap
gap analysis by Norway:                                                analysis and Monitoring &
100 staff-months                                                       Evaluation for 100 staff
months
TA for Baouie National                                                 UNDP provided 60 staff
Park by UNDP: 60                                                       months of TA
staff-months
TA by IDA for various                                                  Short-term TA for various
needs (land tenure, WID,                                               themes for a total of 145
agriculture, forestry,                                                 staff months
livestock, financial
management, audit,
mid-term review): 70
staff-months.
Applied research:                                                      No research was funded
undetermined/on request                                                under project. No need
($300,000)                                                             expressed.
Component ff            Mobilize:                                                              Training of staff:
Institutional support for    1 environmental expert                                            30 in IT an OB
central and local      20 staff-months consult.                                                34 in photo interpretation
government authorities to  12 staff-months studies                                             10 in HTMLUNetscape
provide the Govemment   Map production equipt                                                  20 in Web Pages
with basic environmental   Aeriat photos and satelite                                          10 in Front Page 2000
monitoring facilities  imagery                                                                All equipment/software
GIS software                                                           acquired
Vehicle                                                                All consultant work and
studies planned were
caried-out.
- 26 -



OUTCOME/IMPACT INDICATORS
OUTCOMIIEMPACT                                                 INDICATORS
DESCRIPTION           PROJECTED IN SAR       REVISED IN MID-TERM           REVISED AT                ACTUAL
(1993)            REVIEW (De. 1995)        RESTRUCTURING
MISSION (May 1998)
1. Capacity of local     Increase of:                                    Increase of:             Production increased in
communites to manage  *50% in Annual                                   40% in cereal production   average by 47% with
their own natural       household production                           yields after 3 years     maximum observed for
resources is built    * 100% in on-farm                                                         millet (300%) and
investments                                                             sorghum (200%)
2. Institutional capacity of *e100% in pastoral plants
ministry to advise    e100% in pastoral canopy                         Significant increase in  Increase in biomass too
villagers is built    * 100% in forest                                 total biomass after 5 years early to measure.
regeneration
3. Environmental        *100% in organic matter                                                   844 village communities
Information system is   *100% in park animal                                                   and 58 communes are
built                  population                                                               now well tvained to
effectively participate in
Decrease of.                                                           the design and
. 50% in soil erosion                                                    implementation of their
development plans and
manage their own
resources.
Public services have
mastered most skills for
assisting communities in
their activities
The environmental system
was built and equiped and
is ready for operation
- 27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
AppralsaJ    Actu`a'ALte"t   Percentae tof
Estimate  Estimate   Appraisal
Projet* Cost By Component    L        V$$ million   J  mlo
1. Village-level Investments                        15.60          18.40            118
2. Baoule National Park                              1.90           1.65             87
3. Field Technical Support                           3.00           7.28            243
4. Central Implementation and Monitoring Unit        0.70           1.77            253
5. Skills Development and Public Awareness           2.00           1.00             50
6. TA, Research and Studies                          2.90           1.72             59
7. National Environmental Monitoring                 0.70           0.60             86
8. Refinancing of PPF                                0.20           0.06             33
Total Baseline Cost                                 27.00          32.48
Physical Contingencies                              2.10           0.00
Price Contingencies                                 3.00           0.00
Total Project Costs            32.10          32.48    .
Total Financing Required             32.10          32.48
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure C  ry         ICe                                    N.B.F,.    Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         5.70          4.50         6.10         16.30
(0.00)       (5.70)       (4.50)       (0.00)       (10.20)
2. Goods                     0.70          1.90         1.30         2.10         6.00
(0.70)       (1.90)       (1.30)       (0.00)        (3.90)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          1.40         2.70         4.10
Studies, TA, Analysis       (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.40)       (0.00)       (1.40)
4. Training                  0.00         0.00          1.70         0.30         2.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.70)       (0.00)        (1.70)
5. Incremental Operating     0.00         0.00          3.00         0.50         3.50
Costs                       (0.00)        (0.00)       (3.00)       (0.00)       (3.00)
6. PPF Refinancing           0.00         0.00          0.20         0.00         0.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.20)       (0.00)        (0.20)
Total                     0.70          7.60         12.10        11.70        32.10
(0.70)       (7.60)       (12.10)       (0.00)      (20.40)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
|Expnditure Cte4gory;     TGo NC                        2       N.B.F.     Total cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         6.50         6.18         12.68
(0.00)      (0.00)        (6.50)       (0.00)        6.50
-28 -



2. Goods                         2.24            0.22           2.07           2.11          6.64
(2.24)         (0.22)         (2.07)         (0.00)         (4.53)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           1.23           2.58          3.81
Studies, TA, Analysis            (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.23)         (0.00)        (1.23)
4. Training                      0.00            0.00           2.00           0.33          2.33
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.00)         (0.00)         (2.00)
5. Incremental Operating         0.00            0.00           6.52           0.30          6.82
Costs                           (0.00)          (0.00)         (6.52)         (0.00)         (6.52)
6. PPF Refinancing               0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         2.24            0.22          18.32          11.50          32.28
(2.24)         (0.22)        (18.32)         (0.00)        (20.78)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
a Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of App~raisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate           ActualfLatest Estimate
IDA       Govt      CoF.       IDA       Govt.      CoF.    IDA    Govt   CoF.
1. Village Level          9.60      4.00       3.00      11.40      4.00       3.00    118.7  100.0  100.0
Investments
2. Baoule National Park   1.10                 1.50       0.15                 1.50     13.6          100.0
3. Field Technical Support   2.20              1.78       5.50                 1.78    250.0          100.0
4. Central Implementation    0.70              0.00       1.77                 0.00    252.9           0.0
and Monitoring Unit
5. Skills Development and  2.00                0.50       0.50                 0.50     25.0          100.0
Public Awarenss
6. TA, Research and       2.00                 0.92       0.80                 0.92     40.0          100.0
Studies
7. National Environmental    0.70              0.00       0.60                 0.00     85.7           0.0
Monitoring Unit
8. Refinancing of PPF     0.20                 0.00       0.06                 0.00     30.0           0.0
Total Base Costs          18.50      4.00      7.70      20.78      4.00       7.70    112.3  100.0  100.0
Physical Contingencies    0.90                            0.00                          0.0
Price Contingencies       1.00                            0.00                          0.0
Total Project Costs       20.40      4.00      7.70      20.78      4.00       7.70    101.9  100.0  100.0
- 29 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
02/91                        1   Livestock Specialist (TM)            S              S
I   Livestock Specialist (TM)
2   Natural Resource Mgt.
Specialists
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/91- Appraisal             1   Livestock Specialist (TM),           S              S
I   Agro-economist
I   Agro-ecologist
I   Agricultural Extension Spec.
I   Training Specialist
04/92 -                  I each   Lawyer, Disbursement Specialist,
Negotiations                      TM, NRM Specialist,
Procurement Specialist,
Operations Analyst, Team Assist.
Supervision
07/92                         1   Livestock (TM)                      S              S
I   Financial Management
11/92, 12/92                  l   Livestock (TM)                     HS             HS
l   Natural Resource Management
03/93 - project               I   Livestock (TM)                      S             HS
launch                        I   Natural Resource Management
08/93                         1   Livestock (TM)
12/93                         1   Livestock (TM)
03/94                         I   Livestock (TM)                      S              S
I   Financial Management
06/94                         1   Livestock (TM)                      HS            HS
09/94                         1   Livestock (TM)                      HS             S
I   Natural Resource Management
06/95                         1   Agriculturalist/Prog. Officer       S              S
I   Financial Management
12/95 - MTR                   I   Livestock (TM)                      S              S
I   Natural Resources Management
1   Anthropology
I   Agricultural Services
1   Financial Management
I   Geographical Info. Systems
07/96                         1   Agricultural Services               S              S
10/96                         1   Livestock                           S              S
I   Environmental
I   Consultant
05/97, 08/97                  1   Natural Resources Management        S              S
2   Livestock
- 31 -



11/97                        1   Livestock (TM)                     S             S
1   Environmental Management
05/98                        1  Agricultural Services               S              S
I   Environmental Management
06/99                        1  Agricultural Services               S              S
I   Decentralization
02/00                        1  Natural Resources Mgt. (TM)         S              S
I  Agronomist
1   Decentralization
I   Livestock Specialist
I   Environmental Mgt.
I   Monitoring & Eval.
I   Sector Manager
10/00                        I  Natural Resources Mgt. (TM)        HS             HS
Agronomist.
ICR
03/01                       1    Natural Resources Mgt.             HS            HS
(TM)
I    Biodiversity
I    Environment
I    Decentralization
I    Social/Gender Evaluation
I    Economist
1    Monitoring and Evaluation
I    Procurement
I    Agricultural Services
I    Financial Management
TM: Task Manager.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              us$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              156.8                       199.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                    51.2                       117.8
Supervision                             240.2                       554.5
ICR                                       9.5                        37.0
Total                                   457.7                       909.1
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                          O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
N Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
N Physical                                * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
N Financial                               * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
N Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
NEnvironmental                            O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  ON   O NA
N Gender                           O H *SUOM O N O NA
I Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
N Private sector development              0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
N Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
DOther (Please specify)                   OH  OSUOM. ON  O NA
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS&Higly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
3 Lending                                            OHS OS Ou OHU
i Supervision                                        OHS es   C u  O Hu
I? Overall                                           OH S * S   C U  C) HU
62 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
3 Preparation                                        OHS OS   C u  O HU
3 Government implementation performance              O HS Os  C  u  O HU
X Implementation agency perfornance                  O 1HS O S  C  u  C HU
1  Overall                                           OHS OS  OU   O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Mid-Term Review and Back-to-Office Report, February 28, 1996.
2. ICR Mission Aide-Memoire, Mission of 9-24 March, 2001.
3. Borrower's Contribution (full report): "Rapport d'Achevement de la 1lre Phase du PGRN," fevrier
1998-d6cembre 2000.
4. Quality of Supervision Assessment report, assessment date: July 27, 1999.
5. "Evaluation des Realisations et Resultats du PGRN: une Approche Participative," J.P. Kalala, A.
Martella, I. Maiga, A. Lachance, December 2000.
6. UNDP Program/Project Annual Report, March 2001.
- 35 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
Rbpublique du Mali
Un Peuple-Un But - Une Foi
Rapport dAchevement du Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles (lere phase)
CR 2370MLI
Rapport du Gouvemement
Bamako, mal 2001
- 36 -



I Introduction:
Le present document est le rapport d'achevement du Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles (PGRN
CR2370MLI) etabli par le Gouvemement du Mali et consecutif a la cl6ture du financement au 31 decembre
2000. Le Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles (PGRN) a ete defini comme "la premiere tranche
quinquennale d'un programme national a long temne (15-20 ans) qui foumira aux collectivit6s
villageoises l'appui necessaire pour 6laborer, mettre on auvre et suivre des plans de gestion des
terroirs couvrant les ressources naturelles de leur collectivitW". II permettra de lancer une vaste operation
permettant, d'arreter et meme de renverser le processus de degradation des ressources naturelles qui
menace les moyens d'existence des populations rurales et urbaines du Mali."
L'objectif de developpement du Projet est l'amelioration des revenus des bWn6ficiaires suite a
I'augmentation de la production agricole.
Le PGRN a ete mis en vigueur le 11 fevrier 1993 dans le cadre du sous Programme Schema d'Amenagement
du Territoire National du Programme National de lutte contre la Desertification (PNLCD). Les modifications
importantes survenues dans la mise en ceuvre du Projet ont ete les suivantes:
*   La revue a mi-parcours (du 20 novembre au 4 decembre 1995) qui a porte le nombre de villages a
appuyer de 150 a 600;
*   La mission de restructuration en mai 1998 a port6 le nombre de villages de 600 a 800 et a retenu
l'elaboration et la mise en ceuvre de plans d'investissement de 50 communes;
*   A l'issue de la mission de supervision de novembre 1999 la cl6ture du projet a e  reporte, au 31
d6cembre 2000.
11 EVALUATION DE LEXECUTION PAR COMPOSANTE (C)
C I.Plans de gestion communautaire des ressources naturelles:
1. Contexte:
Une des principales composantes du projet est l'elaboration et la mise en ceuvre des plans de gestion
communautaire des ressources naturelles. De l'experience acquise sur le terrain (plus de 130 projets dans
le domaine a l'epoque), l'unanimite s'est faite sur l'approche" gestion de terroirs" parce qu'elle permet de
prendre en compte toutes les interactions sur les ressources sur 1'ensemble du terroir mais aussi parce
que ce niveau a toujours une autorite de decision et de gestion plus forte et consensuelle.
2. Objectifs specifiaues afteints Par l'approche:
*   Ia participation accrue des collectivites a l'identification et a la mise en oeuvre des actions de
developpement integre, I'elaboration d'incitations et developpement de competences permettant
aux collectivites d'exercer une responsabilite accrue dans le developpement local;
*   Ia preparation d'accords clairs, negocies ouvertement avec les autorit6s administratives et
techniques et les collectivites locales et la preparation de plans multi sectoriels de GRN des
terroirs et espaces pastoraux.
- 37 -



3. El6ments consftutifs de I'approche:
3.1. Elaboration et mise en csuvre d'un manuel de Diaffication des actions on aestion de
terroirs villaqoils (GTVA:
Dans le cadre de la recherche d'une demarche consensuelle le PGRN a deploye des efforts importants pour
ameliorer l'ebauche de demarche concue precedemment par le PNLCD. Ainsi quatre (4) phases principales
ont et retenues comme incontoumables pour atteindre les objectifs specifiques:
*   La phase preparation et diagnostic: elle comprend la prise de contact et la constitution du comite
villageois de gestion des ressources naturelles;
*   La phase diagnostic: dans laquelle il est procede a i'identification des contraintes et potentialites des
milieux physique et humain;
*   Ia phase planification: il s'agit du schema d'am6nagement, du plan d'amenagement et du plan de
gestion du terroir;
*   Ia phase execution qui comporte l'etape de mise en ceuvre des actions. La formation et le suivi
evaluation constituent des themes transversaux dans l'ensemble du processus.
Chaque phase et etape de la demarche sont soutenues par la mise en ceuvre du programme de formation
elabore a cet effet. L'execution du Projet a e  soutenue par un systeme de suivi evaluation. Cette approche
du PGRN a ete finalement adoptee par le Gouvemement a la suite d'un atelier de synthese.
Role du Comite Villaaeois de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles (CVGRN)
Le CVGRN est l'organe de developpement elu en assemblee villageoise. II est l'interlocuteur unique du village
qui dispose d'un pouvoir de decision reconnu a la fois par les communautes et par les autorites politiques et
administratives.
En son sein on trouve les representants des groupes socio-professionnels utilisateurs des ressources du
terroir. Ses attributions s'&tendent sur toutes les activites de developpement de la communaute villageolse.
Dans chacun des 844 villages couverts par le PGRN, il existe un CVGRN. Sous sa responsabilite, plusieurs
comites de gestion sp6cifiques a des infrastructures donnees ont vu le jour.
3.2      Elaboration d'un recueil de techniques d'amenaaement GRN adaPt6es (manuel
d'interventionl
L'objectif vise dans l'elaboration de ce document est de mettre a la disposition des populations et des
structures d'encadrement une gamme variee de techniques et technologies eprouv6es pour mieux orienter
leurs choix. Plus de 200 types d'interventions potentielles sur la gestion des ressources du terroir sont traites
dans ce document.
- 38 -



Point d'ex6cution des phases:
Phase         Diagnostic    Sch6ma d'amrnagernent de terroir  Plan          Plan de gestion de
(SAT)              d'amenagement de     terroir (PGT)
terroir (PAT)
Nombre villages      844                   844                     832                 807
* le nombre de terroirs et espaces pastoraux touches par la demarche "GT" s'6l1ve a 844 sur une prevision
initiale de 150, dont 41villages sur financement bilateral de I'Allemagne executee la GTZ;
*   les plans d'amenagement (PAT) ont e  elabores pour 832 terroirs sur une prbvision initiale de 150.
* les plans de gestion (PGT) ont et elabores et mis en ceuvre dans 807 terroirs et espaces pastoraux sur
une prevision initiale de 150.
Les premieres annees d'elaboration et la mise en oeuvre des plans de gestion ont e  consacrees a
l'identification et l'adoption des phases, etapes et activites de la demarche GRNIGT. Elles ont ete egalement
consacrees a l'experimentation de l'approche et premiers tests d'application sur le terrain compte tenu de son
caractere novateur. A partir de 1996, une meilleure maitrise du processus d'elaboration et de mise en oeuvre
des plans de gestion a permis d'augmenter le rythme de facon significative.
.3.       Elaboration et mise en cuvre d'un manuel de planification de d6velorpement communal
(plan                    d'investissement communal):
Dans la mise en ceuvre de I'approche "terroir" certaines limites sont apparues notamment dans la securisation
des investissements, la gestion des ressources naturelles communes a plusieurs terroirs et dans
l'organisation des utilisateurs r6sidant hors du terroir. La mise en place des organes de la d6centralisation en
milieu rural a e  une opportunite pour le PGRN pour elaborer une approche specifique de developpement
communal.
Les phases retenues dans le cadre de cette approche sont les suivantes:
* la phase preparation qui comporte l'etape de la prise de contact entre les membres de l'equipe
pluridisciplinaire*et les autorites communales et la constitution de la Commission de travail du Conseil
communal.
* Ia phase diagnostic qui comprend les etapes du diagnostic physique et socio-economique;
* Ia phase planification est composee des etapes d'elaboration du schema d'amenagement, du plan
d'amenagement et du plan d'investissement (plan de developpement) de la commune;
* Ia phase d'execution comprend l'etape de mise en oeuvre du plan d'investissement: cette phase est
soutenue par un systeme de suivi evaluation, de formation et un manuel de procedure de mise en ceuvre
des investissements au niveau communal.
* L'equipe pluridisciplinaire est composee de specialistes des services de I'Agriculture, de rElevage, des eaux et Forets et de rAction Cooperative
a raison d'une personne par structure. Elle opere a PMchelle d'un Cercle (Coordination de Cerde)
Etat d'execution des phases de la demarche communale:
- 39 -



Phases      Diagnostc du     Schema d'amrnagement    Plan d'amenagement    Plan d'investissement
tenitoire communal  communal (SAC)      communal (PAC)      communal
Nombre de         58                  58                    34                  30
communes
*   le PGRN a r6alisb avec succes des tests d'application de la demarche communale dans 58 communes;
*   sur une prevision de 73 communes a couvrir, 58 ont b  touchbes effectivement par le PGRN en
demarche communale, soit 79% de realisation par rapport aux previsions revisees;
*   les plans d'amenagement communal ont b  realises pour 34 communes soit 68% des prbvisions
rbvisees de 1998;
*   les plans d'investissement communal ont bt realises pour 30 Communes soit un taux de 60% de
realisation par rapport aux previsions revisees de 1998 (plans d'investissement provisoire);
*   les plans d'investissement ont connu un debut d'execution.
3.4. Conclusion
En resume des activites menees dans le cadre de cette composante, l'objectif premier du Projet a et6 atteint.
En effet un systeme d'utilisation rationnelle des terres a b  introduit dans les zones encadrees et qui a
chang6 fondamentalement le comportement des utilisateurs par rapport aux ressources naturelles.
Grace a la responsabilisation et aux formations recues, les CVGRN ont contribue a une meilleure assise de la
ducentralisation dans leur milieu; en effet une forte proportion des membres des CVGRN a ete elue dans les
organes deliberants de certaines collectivitbs territoriales.
Les problemes essentiels rencontres dans l'elaboration et la mise en ceuvre des plans de gestion des terroirs
et des plans d'investissement communal sont:
o I'analphabetisme d'une grande majorite de la population et des elus communaux;
- le coOt elevb de certains investissements par rapport a la faible capacit6 contributive des
bbnbficiaires;
* Ia difficult6 des benbficiaires a cemer la planification a long terme a cause des problemes brOlants du
court terme;
* Ia difficulte d'integrer les non s6dentaires dans la planification et la mise en ceuvre des activites GRN;
* certains impacts des actions GRN ne sont visibles par les populations qu'a long terme; ceci constitue
des fois des facteurs de blocage pour la rbalisation d'actions demandant un effort physique important.
C 2 Le Parc national de la boucle du Baoule
Au Mali, I'Operation Parc national de la boucle du Baoule constitue un des projets importants de conservation
de ia diversite biologique. Les actions prevues dans le cadre du PGRN ont etb menees en complementarite
avec celles des structures etatiques spkcialis6es dans le domaine avec l'appui du PNUD.
Point d'execution de la composante Parc
-40 -



1. Deplacement des limites du parc
Les limites du parc ont ete redefinies afin d'extraire les terroirs des villages La materialisation des nouvelles
limites qui a ete faite a porte sur:
* Ia mise en place des bomes aux principaux angles des nouvelles limites (principaux points de
changement de direction des axes);
* Ia confection et le scellement des panneaux de signalisation a tous les 2,5km.
Le terroir de chacun de ces villages a e  defini de fagon consensuelle par les villageois et les techniciens.
2. Realisation des etudes d'avant Promet d6taill Pour la r6habillitation de certaines pistes A l'interieur
du parc
Les etudes ont e  realisees sur sept (7) pistes retenues par la Direction de l'Operation du Parc national
de la boucle du Baoule (OPNBB).
Les travaux prevus consistent au reprofilage des pistes, au rechargement et lateritage des endroits
degrades et a la rbalisation des ouvrages d'art. La signature du marche de la piste Missira -Madina a
coincide avec la fin du Projet.
3. Remise en stat et amelioration de certains bitments existants
Les travaux ont eK realises conformement aux previsions. C'est ainsi que les postes de surveillance des
villages de Bambara, Samantra et Mambiry ont e  renoves. Quant au campement touristique, les travaux ont
consiste en la rehabilitation du batiment principal, de la chambre de passage et annexes, du garage du
campement, du chateau d'eau et du local du groupe 6lectrogene.
4. Suivi do I611aboraton et do la mime en cuvre du plan cam6nagement du Pam
Le PGRN a participe a diverses rencontres dans le cadre de l'elaboration du plan d'amenagement du Parc
avec les responsables de i'OPNBB. Le plan d'am6nagement provisoire elabore par cet organisme a ete
soumis au PGRN et ses observations constructives ont ete prises en compte dans la version definitive.
C 3 APPUI INSTfIUTIONNEL
1. Les organes du Proiet
Les organes de mise en cauvre du Projet ont e  installes a travers:
* Un Comite National de Coordination constitue des chefs de Service d'une vingtaine de Directions
Nationales reparties entre differents departements ministeriels.
* Une Unite Centrale de Mise en oeuvre du Projet (UCMO) constitu6e d'une Direction, d'un Bureau
Administratif et Financier, d'un Bureau Technique et d'un Volet Suivi Environnemental.
* Trois (3) Coordinations Regionales dotees chacune d'un Comit6 Regional de Coordination;
* Treize(13) Coordinations de Cercle dotees chacune d'un comite de Cercle de coordination
* Dix (10) Equipes d'Appui Technique.
* Huit Cent Quarante Quatre (844) Comites Villageois de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles.
2. le systeme de suivi evaluation
-41 -



a) Introduction
Le suivi evaluation du PGRN correspond a deux op6rations etroitement liees: le suivi d'execution qui porte sur
I'etat d'avancement et de realisations et le suivi d'impact qui permet de cemer le changement induit dans le
milieu et attribuable a la realisation des actions.
b) Modalites de mise en muvre
La structure d'ensemble du systbme de S/E comprend trois(3) dispositifs: un dispositif de collecte de donnees
; un dispositif de traitement, d'analyse et d'interpretation des resultats; un dispositif de restitution et de
diffusion des resultats, le,ons et connaissances.
Trois niveaux d'intervention et de circulation de l'information ont e  retenus:
Niveau local (villages et Commune)
Les decideurs et acteurs sont les structures communales, les comites villageois de gestion des ressources
naturelles et groupes affilies, les repr6sentants de la chefferie traditionnelle. Ils auront besoin d'informations
techniques et economiques portant sur les actions entreprises, les resultats atteints, les informations
provenant d'experiences similaires leur permettant de mieux gerer.
Niveau corcle
Les decideurs et acteurs sont les services techniques, les structures de recherche, les autorit6s
administratives, les elus politiques. lhs ont besoin d'informations relatives aux finances, aux techniques, aux
r6sultats obtenus, les probIbmes et les solutions a proposer.
Niveaux gionall et national
Les decideurs et acteurs sont les services de tutelle de l'Etat, les bailleurs de fonds, les elus politiques et les
membres du Gouvemement. A ces niveaux, les informations requises portent sur la performance du PGRN
dans son ensemble (efficacite) r6sultats et effets, les propositions d'ajustement.
Ce systbme mis en place par le PGRN a permis d'atteindre les resultats suivants:
-   production d'informations relationnelles (les pourquoi, les comment, les synth6ses, les tendances);
*   comparaison des realisations des differentes communautes et integration des informations sur les
experiences acquises.
C 4.      FORMATION. INFORMATION ET SENSIBILISATION DU PUBLIC
1. Introduction
Le Projet a introduit une approche relativement nouvelle de developpement multisectorelle, participative et
decentralisee, associant des activit6s d'amenagement de l'espace et des activites de production. La
formation, I'information et la sensibilisation ont permis l'adoption par les populations et les agents
d'encadrement de comportements nouveaux dans la conduite des activites de developpement et dans I'
exploitation et la gestion des ressources naturelles.
2. Resultats
2.1. formations techniques :Au terme de cette premibre phase, les formations techniques ex6cutees aussi
bien a l'intention des populations qu'au profit du personnel d'encadrement a tous les niveaux ont ete
- 42 -



satisfaisantes et ont permis de renforcer leur capacite d'intervention.
2.2.alphabetisation fonctionnelle: dans ce domaine 356 centres ont ete ouverts dans six langues
nationales.
*   6 767 personnes ont e  formees dont 1 809 "d6butants"(dont 579 femmes), 2 209 "moyens"(dont 536
femmes) et 2 749 Wnno-alphabbtes "(dont 757 femmes);
*   1 352 alphabetiseurs villageois ont ete formes dont 201 femmes et 738 alphabetiseurs villageois ont e
recycles dont 302 femmes.
2.3. domaine de la communication: les principaux resultats sont les suivants:
*   Ia realisation de 21 reportages dans des journaux a grand tirage et la production de cassettes radio sur la
d6gradation des ressources naturelles renouvelables dans trois langues nationales;
*   Ia realisation et diffusion de 4 micro programmes radiophoniques sur la chaine nationale et la production
de 4 sketches audiovisuels sur divers themes de GRN;
*   Ia realisation d'un film audiovisuel sur la demarche du Projet, en frangais et dans trois langues nationales,
et diffusion sur la chaine nationale;
* I'elaboration d'une strategie et d'un plan de communication et l'organisation de 2 conferences debats sur
la gestion des ressources naturelles.
3. Conclusions sur la Composante: les principaux acquis et recommandations sont:
   la concentration de la formation sur le savoir-faire plut6t que sur l'acquisition de nouvelles connaissances
theoriques;
* l'utilisation des situations qui s'adaptent au milieu reel des participants et l'adaptation du montage des
formations a la demande hormis celles de base;
*   ia complementarite des formations de courte duree destinees aux cadres techniques d'encadrement et
I'adaptation des periodes de formation aux periodes libres des ben6ficiaires;
*   le projet a donne la priorite a l'utilisation des consultants sur place et aux visites d'echanges afin
d'encourager le renforcement de l'expertise locale;
3   A la (umiere des nombreuses applications des connaissances acquises dans les langues nationales,
I'alphab6tisation a e  le support indispensable pour realiser une appropriation du processus de gestion
des ressources naturelles par les populations rurales (tenue des differents documents de gestion, de
planification, tenue des registres villageois, tenue de comptes-rendus de reunions, etc.).
C. 5. ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE ET RECHERCHE
La mise en ceuvre de cette composante a necessite 1'emploi de consultants tant nationaux qu'internationaux
dans divers domaines:
* L'identification de plus de 200 techniques et technologies appropriees;
*   La mise en place d'un Systbme d'Information sur les Ressources Humaines en Formation SIRHF
*   La Mise en place d'un Systbme d'lnformation sur l'Environnement a l'echelle du territoire national
* L'installation d'un systbme comptable informatis6, la r6alisation de 8 inventaires comptables et d'audits
des comptes du Projet ainsi que la conception et la mise en ceuvre d'un systbme de suivi evaluation
informatise;
* L'Elaboration de differents manuels de procedures pour la mise en ceuvre du Projet.
- 43 -



Dans l'ensemble les activites de cette Composante ont permis de doter les structures du Projet de documents
mbthodologiques et techniques tres utiles pour le bon pilotage des activitbs.
C 6. SYSTEME D'INFORMATION SUR L'ENVIRONNEMENT (SIE)
1. Obiectifs
Le systeme vise deux (2) objectifs principaux qui sont: satisfaire les besoins en informations identifibs comme
prioritaires en regard de la problematique de gestion des ressources naturelles et contribuer a garantir de
maniere durable la disponibilite des informations sur les ressources naturelles.
2. Rbalisations
Depuis le demarrage du programme en 1997, les activitbs de ce volet ont principalement porte sur la
production de documents methodologiques, la rbalisation de sessions de formation en informatique et en
interprbtation d'images et la passation du marchb des bquipements.
Les acquis de la Composante sont: la mise en place de six (6) agences nationales d'execution du SIE, la
mise en place des bases nationales de donnees topographiques, meteorologiques, demographiques,
socio-bconomiques, de l'occupation des sols et sur les actions en GRN, l'interpretation des photos aeriennes
des sites-tests de l'btude diachronique des changements et le geo-referencement des sites d'etude
3. Impacts:
Les resultats dans la gestion durable de l'environnement en terme de produits ou de donnees repr6sentent un
important patrimoine scientifique et technique pour le dbveloppement en gbneral, la gestion de I'
environnement en particulier. C'est dans ce cadre que le PGRN a initie la mise en reseau de six (6) structures
techniques productrices et utilisatrices de l'information environnementale.
*   Une dynamique dans les echanges entre les structures mises en reseau s'est developpbe et a contribue
a mettre fin au cloisonnement et a favorisb des activitbs conjointes;
* L'harmonisation des termes techniques et symboles a permis d'elaborer un document de nomenclature
nationale sur l'occupation des terres et qui a ete valide par l'ensemble des structures techniques du Mali.
Grace a l'action du PGRN, le pays dispose d'un document a caractere national.
*   La circulation de l'information entre les structures du reseau, entre elles et l'exterieur est devenue une
realite gracea  la creation des sites Web permettant la diffusion de l'information environnementale au Mali
et ailleurs.
4 recommandations:
Les recommandations pour ambliorer le SIE porte sur l'assistance technique de longue duree d'un bureau
prive experimente compte tenu de son caractere novateur. Ainsi pourront etre mieux definis les specifications
du materiel et leurs delais de livraison, la motivation des agents et la qualit6 des formations.
IIL Ateinte des obIectifs de d6veloppement:
Le meilleur temoignage de I'atteinte des objectifs de dbveloppement est donnb dans le rapport de synthese
des enquetes menees aupres des bbnbficiaires directs. Ceux-ci ont identifie plus de 78 changements
differents attribuables aux activites du PGRN.
-44 -



L'augmentation de la production et la securite alimentaire, la recuperation des sols et des superficies
cultivables, la facilitation du transport grace aux charrettes et brouettes, la presence de neo-alphabetes, les
nouvelles competences et connaissances acquises, I'amelioration de la collaboration et des echanges avec
les autres villages font partie des 15 changements les plus cites
a) Evolution de l'btat des ressources naturelles selon les indices locaux
Les communautes etudiees ont defini 34 indices de restauration des ressources naturelles. Les indices de
restauration les plus cites sont: la restauration des sols et l'amelioration de la fertilite des champs, la
diversification de la vegetation, I'augmentation de la capacit6 de retention de l'eau et le rehaussement de la
nappe phreatique, la regeneration des paturages et le meilleur etat du b6tail, la reapparition de certaines
especes de la faune sauvage.
b) Accroissement de la production et de la securite alimentaire grace a l'auqmentation de la productivite des
ressources naturelles
Les terres protegees par les ouvrages DRS realises par les communaut6s ont eu une meilleure productivite
que les parties non protegees. Ainsi plus de 50 000 ha de terre ont ete amendes et le regime hydrique des
cultures a ete ambliore sur pres de 15000 ha de rizieres et bas-fonds.
L'augmentation et la valorisation de la production en rapport avec les activites du PGRN ont conceme 33
produits differents. Par rapport a la situation avant la mise en ceuvre des activites du projet, les resultats
obtenus aupres des communaut6s indiquent une moyenne generale de 47% d'augmentation de la production
pour l'ensemble de 1'echantillon. De meme 36% des produits analyses ont connu une amblioration du taux de
commercialisation.
L'analyse de la situation pour les produits agricoles fait ressortir que la productivit6 du mil est celle qui a connu
le niveau d'augmentation le plus eleve. Selon les estimations des communautes, la productivite du mil a ete
multipli6e par 7, celle du sorgho a e  doubl6e. La situation de securite alimentaire s'est amelioree dans 56%
des cas.
Au plan social le PGRN a donne du travail a plus d'une cinquantaine d'Entreprises et Bureaux prives evoluant
en milieu rural.
c) Contribution a l'atteinte des obiectifs de la decentralisation et de l'aRpui institutionnel:
Le Projet par l'application de l'approche participafve, a contribue a faciliter le regroupement des villages en
Communes dans sa zone d'action. Grace a cette approche beaucoup de membres des CVGRN ont et6 elus
au niveau des Conseils communaux et de Cercle. De meme, I'elaboration et la mise en ceuvre de plans de
developpement communal ont contribue a rendre op6rationnel le transfert de competences aux
autortts communales.
Au plan institutionnel, le Projet a permis de renforcer le partenariat entre les structures techniques et entre
elles et les populations. Plus d'une dizaine de protocoles d'accord ont 6t6 signes avec les structures,
projets et ONG.
IV. Performance de l'Emprunteur.
Le Gouvernement a mis en place toutes les structures de coordination et de controle exigees. Dans le cadre
- 45 -



de la gestion, le Projet a et6 dote: d'un systeme comptable informatise et performant, d'un systeme
informatise de suivi evaluation et d'un systeme d'information sur l'environnement a 1'echelle du pays.
L'Agence d'execution a beneficie de l'appui de qualite des services techniques etatiques presents dans toute
la zone d'intervention a travers les coordinations locales et regionales. Grace a cette collaboration etroite les
objectifs  assignes au Projet ont e   atteints et largement depasses. C'est pourquoi le Gouvernement
reaffirme sa forte volonte de mettre en ceuvre la 2e phase du Projet.
V. Perfomnance de la Bangue
Le PGRN a ete con,u a l'origine comme un projet test. Grace a la qualite des interventions de la Banque
Mondiale et cofinanciers le test a ete concluant. C'est ainsi que le nombre de villages encadres est passe de
150 a 844 et que la dimension communale a ete introduite.
La regularite et la qualite des missions de supervision et d'evaluation ont e  d'un apport tres important dans la
mise en ceuvre au niveau technique, institutionnel et dans le domaine de la gestion financiere.
Cependant l'abandon de certains investissements socio-economiques a 6t1 mal appreci6 par les populations.
De meme, le retard enregistre dans le traitement de certains dossiers de marches et les frequentes ruptures
de fonds du compte special ont e  des points de faiblesse de la Banque.
Fait a Bamako le 22 mai 2001
Pour le Gouvernement de la Republique du Mali:
Le Ministre de L'Eauipement. de  Le Ministre de lAdministration Terntoriale   Le Ministre du DNveloooement
I'Amenaaement du Territoire,        et des CollectMivts Locales            Rural
de I'Environnement et de lUrbanisme
Soumaila CISSE                      Ousmane SY                Ahmed El Madani DIALLO
-46 -



M A L I
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                     I
AND AREA OF THE PROJECT
-" -Wl \ O A_
TOMBOUCTOU REGION    |
13    RE9N CmS                                                      \
CECAT  AREAOO                        /REGION                                                                                        I
EGION K>UNDMRE                                                                            Jn                    j/
ERRAINIO-ll 8UNDAMES                                              a  i e           f
Group.The denominations used
M A U R I T A N I A           /              Niohun                                                           ,7'.  .  0 '     
{~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~itra us ofimne                              Theor  Wol Bank                                                          NIGER/  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o thi ma"o'timl,o h
MYE,S, DIM                                                                                                                       1   <ERA   I
ro         50              I                                                            pa 0   20%  dooDrt of The World Bunk Group,  jc.     sBonsks  vBURKINAx             ~        b
>           ~~~~KILOMdETERS                                                              a  ny judgement on the lezol  3G                             /      FSO                      C
-<                                                                                                a a,sou5o ny territory or any                                                           5  2G   1r
_ . } COT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E DIOR )ndorsemnent oroacceptanceof                                            GUINEA                        SE{3NIGEI N
COTE D'IVO IREEsuchGboundarIes.OGHANA                                                                                           o






M    A    L  I                                                                                                                                                                  Thin ..p hos bee-,  prepared
eoclosively for the co--ei-n
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                of eoders and is fori the
it-rn1 ose of The World&-ok
SOILS AND  RAINFALL                                                                                                                                                                       and   the  boundri-es shown
onthis t-e do not iply on the
part of Th World Bo- Grop,
0"y I.dBr-t on the legal
FL FLUVISOLS                        AC - ACRISOLS                                                                                                                                               endorseent o  ceptance of
GL GLYSL                                 IZ AR EGOSOLS:\  A  L G  E R I A
V  VETISOLS             {iAR - SAREdfNOSOLStw
CM LENGH AMOFF YRme) AERMOSOLS                                                                                                                                     om                                    ALGER=
Lp CM             E            AN SANNUAL RIAINFALL,  mm \ 1 f /5>
ZONE~~~~~~ZN 
(3REGION CAPITALS                t            P=200mm) IS  - Ofi=~__!_rI
NATIONALCAPITAL                          I(P=300mm)M30 A-
5~~~ ~ ~  ~ .n                                                             sow> so   Sm  sttHi\
SAHELJAN                                                                                                                          B       .URRTNA
(,p    __ V                      R                                                                                                                          TOG                   NIGERA
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES            C01ZEODNIVOIREEGUINEAjNIGEG



