Docamt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5755-MLI Type: (PM)
HALL, J.  t X34999 / J9 282/ AFBAG
MNIORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 15.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGENENT PROJECT
MAY 1, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may b used by reipients oaly in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World anlk authorization.



CURRENCY BOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit : CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00 = CFAF 272
WEIGHTS & MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OmCL USE ONLY
ii -
&RVATION8 ANtD ACRONYN8
AV       Village Association
(Association Villageoise)
AVV      Extension Agent
(Animateur-Vulgarisateur Villageois)
CIMU     Central Implementing and Monitoring Unit
(Unit6 de Mise en Oeuvre et de Suivi)
CLD      Local Development Committee
(Comit6 Local de Developpement)
CRD      Regional Development Committee
(Comit6 Regional de D6veloppement)
DAF      Administrative and Financial Department of MAZE
(Direction Administrative et FinanciAre du MAEE)
DNA      National Directorate of Agriculture
(Direction Nationale de l'Agriculture)
DNE      National Directorate of Livestock Production
(Direction Nationale de l'Elevage)
DNEF     National Directorate of Water and Forestry
(Direction Nationale des Eaux et Forets)
NIs      Environmental Information System
(Systeme d'Information sur l'Environnement)
IER      Rural Economy Institute
(Institut d'Economie Rurale)
MAZE     Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Environment
(Minist6re de l'Agriculture, l'Elevage et l'Environnement)
NRN      Natural Resource Management
(Geution des Resources Naturelles)
OAPF    Forestry Management Operation
(Op6ration d'Am6nagement et Production Foreetihre)
OPNBB    BaoulA Loop National Park Authority
(Office du Parc National de la Boucle du Baoul6)
PDRM     Mopti Area Development Project
(Projet de Developpement de la Region de Mopti)
PNCC     Project National Coordinating Committee
(Comit6 National de Coordination)
PNLCD    National Program of Desertification Control
(Programme National de Lutte Contre la D6sertification)
TST      Technical Support Teams
(Eguipe d'Appui Technique)
This documwnt has a rstrcted distribution and may be used by recipients ouly in the perfonnmnce
of their offlcal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WV ?1 rnk authodntion.



- Bii -
REPUBLIC 0F MALI
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CREDIZ' AND PROJECT SUMMARY
*   Borrower             s    Republic of Mall
Beneflficiaries          s    FarmerB and herders, (approximately 95,000
people located in 150 rural villages) located in
3 regions
Amtount                  s     SDR 1S.0 million (US$20.4 million)
Terms                    s    Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Financina Plan           s    Beneficiaries         $4.0 million
IDA                 $20.4 million
Norway               $5.0 million
Germany              $1.2 million
UNDP                 $1.5 million
$32.1 million
Rate of Return           : Not applicable
Staff Atoraisal Re2ort  : No. 10370-MLI
: IBRD No. 23503
IBRD No. 23502



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation
on a proposed developmont credit to Mali for SDR 15.0 million, the equivalent
of US$20.4 million, on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to help
finance the first phase of a long-term program aimed at providing support to
village communities to enable them to establish, implement and monitor
community natural resource management (NRM) plans. These NRM plans are
designed to ensure the sustainable use of land, water, vegetation and wildlife
resources through an innovative participatory, intersectoril aptroach. Mali
will finance US$4.0 million equivalent, or 12% of project costs. Norway will
finance US$5.0 million equivalent, Germany will finance US$1.2 million
equivalent, and UNDP will finance US$1.5 million equivalent.
I.  Country Policies and Bank GrouD's Assistance Strateav
3ackoround
Part I: Country Policies and Bank Group's Assistance Strateav
Backoround and Recent Develouments
1.       Mali is a vast, land-locked, resource-poor country located in the
Sahelian zone of Western Africa. Only about a quarter of its 1.2 million
square kilometers is arable. Nearly 90 percent of the population, estimated
at 8.5 million in 1990, is dependent on the agricultural sector. Per capita
income was US$270 in 1990 and social indicators, such as life expectancy and
literacy rate, are among the lowest in the world. Population growth is
estimated at 2.5 percent per annum (see para. 11).
2.       Macroeconomic Trends.  Mali's economic performance is highly
constrained by a narrow human and physical resource base, variable climate,
and the legacy of inappropriate past policies. Although per capita income has
risen slowly over the 1980s, it remains one of the lowest in the world. Real
growth has averaged about 3.4 percent p.a. since 1985, but population growth
has absorbed most of this growth. The average GDP growth also masks large
annual variations (see Table 1 below), which are directly linked to climatic
conditions and Mali's dependence on agriculture. Agriculture generates just
under half of Mali's GDP, with cereals and livestock production alone
contributing more than one third to total value added. Mali's industrial
sector, mainly agro-based, has remained small (about 6 percent of GDP). A
promising mining potential exists, but it has been little exploited yet. The
trade subsector, developed out of the traditional commercial activities, has
become increasingly vibrant, but is still dominated by informal sector
activity.
3.       The adjustment and stabilization efforts pursued by the government
since 1982 have contributed to major improvements in macroeconomic management.
Tight fiscal policy, together with the structural adjustment measures
described below, and efforts to strengthen tax administration and curtail tax
evasion contributed to a sharp reduction in the overall fiscal deficit
(excluding external grants) from its peak of 13.9 percent of GDP in 1985 to
7.7 percent in 1990. The current fiscal balance has shown a surplus since
1986. On the expenditure side, the wage bill has increased by less than one
percent per annum in real terms since 1985, while allocations for material,
supplies and maintenance expenditure, as well as for priority sectors, such as
education and health, have increased relative to GDP.



4.       Kali's exterral accounts have also improved significantly since the
mid-1980s. The defilcit in the current account (excluding officlal transfers)
fell from a peak of 2a.5 percent of GDP in 1985 to 14.0 percent in 19i0.
Export values - the main export comnodities are co-ton, livestock and gold -
have increased by 7.4 percent per annum, whilo non-cereal imports have risen
by only 2.6 percent per annum. Capital inflows, largely official development
assistance (equivalent to 23 percent of GDP or $57 per capita in 1989) to
finance the public investment program, have increased steadily, and the
balance of payments has recorded surpluses since 1988, after more than a
decade of consecutive deficits.
5.       Total public debt outstanding and dLebureed was 98 percent of GDP at
end-1990. The debt service ratio, before debt relief (excluding debt service
to Chlna and the former USSR), rose rapidly from the early 1980., peaked at 31
percent in 1986, and subsequently declined to 17 percent ln 1991. External
arrears accumulated in the mid-1980c were totally cleared by end-1989,
primarily through debt rellef from the Paris Club and other bilateral
credltors (see Table of Key Economic Indicators).
6.       Inflation has been kept at leos than 2 percent on average over the
past five years. This has, given the fixed exchange rate regime within the
West African Monetary Union (WAMU), caused a slight improvement in MalLis
competitiveness relative to France. However, Malis competitiveness vis-a-vis
its trading partners and competitors deteriorated in the second half of the
19806.



-3
TABLE I
MALI: KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
ON PERa)n
CROWrH RATS
GDP                       2.4  16.1  -2.4  0.2  7.5  2.4  -0.2  5.9  4.0  4.3
GDP/Capita               -0.1  13.3  -4.8  -2.3  4.7  -0.4  -2.9  3.0  1.2  1.5
GDPDefator                3.2  -3.1  5.1  2.9  .0.5  0.7  1.4  1.5  2.5  2.5
DEBTr SERVICE
Debt ServicuXGNS (a)     21.0  30.9  27.5  27.8  26.8  21.3  16.9  20.1  19.4  20.9
RATIOS TO GDP
Gr"ss InVstmt            17.9  20.7  21.9  20.1  21.2  22.2  22.5  22.3  21.9  22.0
Domesti Saviw            -13.0  -1.1  5.9  2.5  5.3  6.4  6.2  7.1  8.2  9.5
Cur"*udgetDit   .        -0.2  1.7  1.0  0.0  2.3  3.0  2.7  2.7  3.7  3.7
Oveai Budgot Defict @)   -13.9  -113  -10.2  -9.8  -9.6  -7.7  -11.3  -9.3  -6.2  -5.8
EXTERNAL SECTOR
Evap VOuM GrwthRata      -22.8  9.1  6.4  -3.7  20.2  -2.1  1E.6   33   4.9  8.7
Import Volume OrwA Rat (c)  19.1  -0.3   03   6.9  -2.1  8.2  6.5  2.3  4.0  4.3
Curent AccounDP         -28.S  -20.4  -14.9  -16.1  -14.1 -14.0  -13.7  -12.9  -11.7  -11.1
(a) Excluding Chi and U,. USSR; inltdin e_imat for nmtn oA nw dia.rames.
(b) Excludiggants.
(c) Excuding ceas inports, widch conI Igsely of fIod aid and tend to vary ivetsdy with GDP.
7.       Structural Adjustment.  Mali followed a *stop-and-go policy" on
economic reform measures through 1987, but it has implemented a sustained
adjustment program for the past 4 years, since the approval of the first PFP
(1988-90). Its macroeconomic targets were all met and the implementation of
the program was supported by the Bank, the Fund, and other donors. Major
structural reforms have been implemented during this time that are fully
consistent with the first and second (1990-92) PFPs, in particular on the
regulatory framework, the tax system, foreign trade, the public enterprise
sector, and the agricultural sector. All prices, except that for petroleum
products, have been liberalized. Liberalization of petroleum product prices
is scheduled to be completed by end-May. All export and most import
monopolies were eliminated, export taxation was abolished and import taxation
greatly simplified, and all quantitative trade restrictions were abandoned. A
value-added tax was successfully introduced and a new investment code was
adopted.
8.       The public enterprise sector, which despite their small contribution
to GDP, used to incur annual losses of about $ 30 million, was largely



restructured; this has Included the effective privatization of the main
development bank and the postal checking system, the liquidation of the
largest unprofitable enterprises and the divestiture of others. In the
agricultural sector, cereals pricing and marketing were liberalized, and in
the cotton sector, which generates 50 percent of Mali's export earnings,
institutional, pricing and taxation reforms were undertaken to increase
efficiency and thus maintain its international competitiveness. To improve
revenue collection and management of public expenditure, measures were also
taken to strengthen investment budgeting, integrate former annexed budgets and
special funds into the normal budgetary process, and start the restructuring
of recurrent spending. A reduction in the number of government employees will
reduce the weight of the wage bill and increase that of recurrent spending
priority areas.
9.       Recent Economic Performance.  Economic performance in 1991 was
weakened by political events. Pressure for the introduction of a multi-party
political system culminated in March 1991 with the overthrow of the former
government and the nomination of a transition govern1msnt to organize multi-
party municipal, legislative and presidential elections. These elections were
held between January 12 and April 26, 1992 and the elected government is
expected to take office by end-May. The disruption of economic activities and
destruction of some industrial and administrative facilities during riots in
early 1991, as well as the armed conflict between government and the ethnic
Tuaregs in the North of Mali throughout the year, partially explain the weaker
economic indicators for 1991. Poorer weathpr conditions also contributed to a
fall in GDP. The transition government did, however, quickly develop a new
macroeconomic framework, geared toward reestablishing macroeconomic balances,
which was supported by the Bank, the IMF and other donors. During the
political transition, the adjustment program remained essentially on track,
with the important exception of the education sector (see below), and the
revised 1991 targets were met. The new government is expected to confirm a
third-year PFP (1992-94), negotiated with the transition government. The PFP
is scheduled for presentation to the Committee of the Whole in June.
10.         social Indicators.  Lack of progress in the social sectors
contrasts with the progress regarding macroeconomic management. Despite heavy
investment by the Bank and other donors, Mali's indicators for health and
education are among the lowest in the world. In education, overall primary
school enrollment has dropped to 31 percent (including koranic schools) and 23
percent for girls. The adult literacy rate is 17 percent. Resources have
been available to the education sector (in addition to donor funding of sector
investments, one quarter of the government's recurrent btdget is spent on
education): inappropriate sector policies, including overemphasis on
expenditure for secondary and tertiary education, explain the poor
performance. Due to political pressure from vocal students, government has
not reallocated education spending towards primary education, an objective
under the ongoing adjustment program. Instead, it has increased scholarships
for high school and university students. As a result, government resources
are insufficient to supply primary education to the rapidly growing population
of children.
11.         Despite relatively high total private and public spending on
health services, only 45 percent of the population has access to health
services. Life expectancy is only 45 years. Infant mortality is high
compared to African averages: 1 out of every 6 children dies in the first year
of life and one out of 4 before the age of 5. Furthermore, child birt_h is the
leading cause of death for women at child bearing age. Although little is
known about AIDS prevalence, it has not yet reached the alarming proportion of
some African countries, but AIDS could well spread rapidly without
intervention, especially given the apparent growth of prostitution in Bamako.
Effective preventive measures still need to be implemented. Given a natural
population growth rate of 3.7 percent, and a net growth of about 2.5 percent,



accounting for outmigration (mostly to coastal countries and Europe), Mali's
social indicators will worsen further unless concerted action contains
population growth and refocuses social sector spending.
12.         Poverty.  Despite rapid population growth, per capita income
growth has been positive over the past decade. As income growth has in la.ge
part been generated by the agricultural sector which occupies 80 percent of
the population, and by trading activity, concentrated in urban areas, it is
estimated that it has not generated a wide disparity in incomes. There is,
however, currently little knowledge about income distribution in Mali, and
surveys are underway. Social services, while generally inadequate, are
particularly poor in the sparsely populated areas of the North, which were
also most severely affected by the droughts of the early 1980. and recently by
conflict between government forces and the Tuaregs. While agricultural areas
have probably benefitted from some of the adjustment measures, such as the
liberalization of agricultural prices and marketing, urban areas have suffered
from a combination of population growth of roughly double the national average
and the reduction in public employment due to the closing down of unviable
public enterprises and downsizing of an inflated bureaucracy. The private
sector has at the same time not grown rapidly enough to absorb the growing
unemployed work force. The government has put in place, with donor
assistance, safety nets to protect social groups that are, at least
temporarily, adversely affected by the adjustment program, namely laid-off
government and public enterprise employees.
13.         The Environment.  A crucial issue regarding Mali's future
development is the ongoing degradation of its natural resources. Land
degradation, caused by a combination of factors, including expansion of
farming to marginal lands, overgrazing, inappropriate laws and regulations,
and population pressure, is the most serious among the environmental problems
and has already led to losses in soil fertility in some areas, thus reducing
agricultural productivity. other serious problems are the degradation of
water resources and the reduction in biodiversity, one of Mali's natural
resources that has not yet been much exploited to support economic growth.
While the Malian government has elaborated a national plan to fight
desertification, and launched many pilot schemes to impreve natural resource
management, it has not yet developed a full national environmental action
program (NEAP) (see para.18).
Medium-Term Policies and Outlook
14.         The government strategy, as spelled out in its recent PFP, aims at
achieving sustainable gruwth in Mali's per capita income and improvement in
its social conditions. It recognizes that central requirements to reach these
objectives will be (a) further improvements in incentives for private sector
*       development; (b) strengthening of public resource management; (c) development
of Mali's human resources; and (d) better management of its natural resources.
The strategy is expected to lead to an average real GDP growth of 4.7 percent
per annum during 1992-94, while inflation would remain low (2.2 percent per
annum) and a viable balance of payments would be obtained by 1994. Over the
PFP time frame, the share of gross domestic investment in GDP would be
maintained at about 22 percent and domestic savings would increase from 6.2
percent of GDP in 1991 to 9.5 percent in 1994. The fiscal deficit (excluding
grants) would be gradually reduced to 5.8 percent of GDP in 1994.
15.      Although Mali's physical resource base is limited, this growth is
possible, even over the medium-term time horizon, with the implementation of
reforms in the above four areas. These reforms will also lay the foundation
for long-term growth, which is possible in Mali if it uses its existing
resource potential in a more effective and sustainable . Mali's resource base
for agricultural growth includes the irrigation potential of the Niger river
and its tributaries, relatively large areas suitable for rainfed agriculture



and natural pastures for livestock. Mali also has exploitable mineral
reserves, in particular gold. There is some prospect for growth in the
artisanal sector and for industrial growth linked to the agricultural sector,
although prospects are limited by the small domestic market. Accelerated
growth in the secondary sector will, however, depend on progress towards
regional integration, and on the extent of improvement in Mali's international
competitiveness. Future growth in any sector will critical!' depend on the
development of Mali's human resources through primary education and basic
health care.
Central Develo_ment Issues
16.      Agriculture will remain the mainstay of the economy for the
foreseeable future, and the expected economic growth thus needs to be in large
part generated by the agricultural sector. Growth in agriculture will require
improvements in productivity, diversification of production and improved
natural resource management. The agricultural sector should benefit from
already implemented reform measures, including the liberalization of pricing
and marketing and the restructuring of the cotton and cereals sectors, all of
which have contributed to increasing the incentives for farmers to raise
productivity and to improving the competitiveness of exports. The government
realizes that it will be important for further growth to encourage the greater
participation of farmers, especially women, and village associations in
decisions regarding agricultural production and in the design and
implementation of agricultural policies. This in turn will require better
information, training, and extension, as well as changes in land tenure
legislation. The government has already started to include farmers directly
in negotiations with the cotton company and the major rice producing
parastatal.
17.      The government also recognizes the need to improve the management of
public resources in the sector, by (i) streamlining government services
provided by rural development organizations, (ii) strengthening the managemant
of the Office du Niger, Mali's main rice producer, (iii) maintaining existing
irrigation facilities rather than extending the network, (iv) improving
extension services to farmers and herders across the country to enable them to
increase and diversify their production, (v) pursuing a policy of
decentralization of government services, which has already started with the
granting of greater autonomy to the northern Malian regions, and (vi)
reorganizing research services to make them more responsive to farmers' and
herders' needs. Mali has been selected as a case study for the SPAAR
initiative, aimed at promoting collaboration in research within the region, as
well as specialization according to each country's comparative advantage.
Given that women perform a large share of farming activities in Mali, the
government needs to develop a strategy to better target its services to them.
18.      natural Resource Manaaement.  Directly linked to government's
agricultural strategy is its objective to fight environ r,.tal degradation, in
particular the most urgent problem of soil degradation. Realizing the threat
natural resource degradation poses for long-term growth in production, the
Malian government has shown a serious commitment to tackling this problem. To
reverse the process of degradation, measures will be needed on many fronts,
including the development of new solutions to land tenure legislation,
training on more appropriate farming practices, the development of economic
and technological alternatives to current agricultural and livestock
activities, information and awareness building, institutional strengthening,
and a population policy. Having prepared a plan for desertification control
which Includes separate programs for the most important sectors, government is
now developing an integrated natural resource management program for the
agricultural, pastoral and forestry sectors. This program aims at enabling
and responsibilizing local communities to better manage their own natural
resources. Government has also expressed an interest in preparing, as a next



-7-
step, a full AEAP, incorporating, but going beyond natural resource
management. It has already accepted the principle of establishing at the
ministry of agriculture, livestock and environment a unit that could monitor
the development of a naticenal environmental strategy.
19.      Human Resources Develonment.   Mali's long-term development
prospects depend critically on substantial increases in the level of literacy
and a healthy population.  Government will put in place, with IDA assistance,
starti.ag with the comin, school year, an emergency program for primary
education to increase school enrollment and thereby the literacy rate. This
program will include the extension of double shift teaching to increase cost
*        effectiveness, an increase in the number of multi-grade classes in rural
areas, limitation of class repetition to 10 percent, and redeployment of
teaching personnel. From October 1992 on, enrollment in secondary and higher
education will be limited depending on budgetary resources and the capacity of
the educational system in order to raise quality. Following the 1991/92
increase, scholarship expenditure will be reduced gradually over the next
three years through greater selectlvity in attribution, thus freeing resources
to increase support to primary education. By 1994, 45 percent of the
education sector budget should be spent on primary education. Government will
at the same time revise curricula and improve teacher training.
20.      To improve health services, government has already liberalized the
setting up of pharmacies and medical practices. It has lso liberalized the
import and distribution of pharmaceutical products, in order to redu-e costs
and thus improve the utilization of available financial resources. A policy
to encourage for the first time the import of essential drugs in generic form
was introduced last year. The government's future strategy in the health
sector aims at fostering greater decentralization in health care provision,
letting local communities manage their own health centers, in close
collaboration with the private sector. Government efforts will be
concentrated on overall sector policy and support services rather than on
direct service provision. At the same time, the share of the government's
recurrent budget going to health care is to be gradually increased, while cost
recovery will be further encouraged.
21.      Realizing that rapid population growth poses severe constraints to
raising living standards, threatens to cause further deterioration of the
country's fragile natural resources, and already endangers the lives of many
women and children, the government has drafted a population policy. This
policy, which includes actions regarding the availability and quality of
family planning services and the protection of women and children, will be put
in place shartly. A population conference is to be held later this year to
sensitize the population to this issue. The government will also work closely
with women's associations in designing action programs to integrate women more
fully in all economic activities, including legal reforms, training,
education, as well as access to services and credit.
22.      Private Sector Develovment.  A key determinant of Mali's future
growth, short- and long-term, will be a policy framework fostering private
sector activity, not only in the agricultural sector, but increasingly in the
currently small industrial sector. Considerable progress has been made on
rationalizing economic incentive. for private sector activity in the context
of Mali's ongoing adjustment program. To make the Malian economy more
adaptable to market developments thus improving its competitiveness in the
long-run, effort is now required to maintain and refine started reform
measures, and to assure that they are effectively applied. In particular, the
government intends to remove the remaining constraints in the regulatory
framework with a view to encouraging not only formal sector economic activity
but also the integration of the large informal sector. The revision of the
labor code, which has already started, will be completed to allow
entrepreneurs more freedom in decisions regarding hiring and dismissal. In



- a -
order to simplify regulations, a new commercial code, currently under
preparation, is scheduled for approval this year. Other important efforts
includes making commercial courts fully operational in all regions of the
country; harmonizing business laws and other regulations among the countries
of the monetary union in the context of the ongoing regional integration
efforts; pursuing more actively the dissemination of information about recent
reforms among economic actors to make them more aware of and responsive to
recent policy improvements; and undertaking the institutional reforms and
strengthening necessary to ensure that the public administration carries out
its new role of facilitating rather than controlling economic activity. All
of these measures will be particularly important for the mining sector, given
this sector's potential for future growth. They need to be complemented by
sector-specific regulatory and institutional reforms, which are currently
being developed.
23.      Public Resources Manaaement.  Improvements in the efficiency with
which public resources are mobilized and publ.c services are delivered will be
an important determinant of the responsiveness of private economic cperators
to an improved incentive structure. After the relative success in dealing
with the sources of important past imbalances (largest public enterprises, the
financial sector, poor financial management), government's focus will now be
on more efficient resource mobilization and on the composition of public
expenditure. The latter is key to dealing with longer-term issues,
particularly human resources development, the provision of basic support
seruices and the maintenance of public infrastructure, all needed to foster
private sector growth. At the same time, the restructuring and divestiture of
the remaining public enterprises will continue. Regarding resource
mobilization, there will be a need for reform in direct taxation, for
extension of the coverage of the recently introduced value added tax and for
further cost recovery.
24.      The measures planned to adjust the composition of public expenditure
aim at: (i) reducing the relative share of the wage bill, currently still over
50 percent of total recurrent expenditure, to allow for more adequate
allocations to the priority expenditure categories; and (ii) increasing the
share of spending on health, primary education, material and supplies, and
road maintenance. This can be achieved through, among other measures, a
reduction in the number of government employees, by implamenting voluntary
departure and early retirement programs. To increase the efficiency in public
investment expenditure and better provide the infrastructure required for
faster privatr sector growth and human resource development, government is
aware of the ;-ed to strengthen the process of planning and monitoring
investment spending, which is overwhelmingly financed by foreign donors. This
will require in particular strengthening of t.he capacity of the concerned
institutions.
23.      Improved public resources management will be crucial to assure the
availability of basic infrastructure necessary for the projected growth of
Mali's private sector. Key will be the adequate maintenance of the existing
transport, electricity, and telecommunications networks, and of other basic
infrastructure such as irrigation or sewerage systems, complemented by
targeted new investments to directly support the private sector strategy.
Bank Group Assistance Strategy
26.      Past IDA assistance.  IDA assistance for Mali became increasingly
policy oriented over the 1980s, first through the inclusion of reform measures
in investment projects, and since 1988, through two adjustment operations and
two "hybrid" operations in agriculture and education. At the same time, IDA
continued to finance investment operations in support of the major sectors, in
particular agriculture and human resources. The lending volume averaged US$



66 million over the past five years for an average of two projects per year.
Adjustment was supported by 40 percent of total committed resources over that
period. Investment in agricultur received 31 percent of total resources,
human resources 15 percent, the energy sector 10 percent, and technical
assistance 4 percent (see Table 2). No new infrastructure projects were
approved during the past five years, with two important projects under
implementation since 1986. There are 15 projects currently under
implementation (10 of which were approved over the past 5 years) with an
undisbursed balance of US$ 260 million. Performance in these operations has
been mixed. While performance on adjustment has generally been satisfactory,
implementation of investment operations often suffered from long delays in
procurement, non-compliance with project covenants, and weak implementation
capacity. The disbursement ratio has been about 25 percent on average over
the past five years.
TABLE2
MAIU
DA LENDING FMT-FM
Amount            Share of    Number of
n US$M}        TOWal      Pxject
Agiculm                 101.2             31 %          4
EnWy                    33.0               10%          1
Hunan Rsaurcas          49.6               15 %         2
Adj*umst                134.0 *            40 %         2
TdiiaAeddaue            133 4       X                   1
TOTAL          331.3             100 %        10
*     dw hwm of adfii atin dwe auhual and edu   %'b opem.
'inclin lse dan of tecnida alamn in SAL L
27.      Priorities for IDA.  The overriding objective of IDA's strategy in
Mali is the alleviation of poverty through growth in per capita income and
improvement in social services. Given Malil*s progress in short-term economic
management over the past few years, IDA"s country strategy is now to focus on
key issues for long-term development, fully consistent with the government's
objectives as expressed in the recently negotiated PFP, and to support
government's efforts tos (a) foster private sector growth, (b) improve public
resource management and (c) alleviate long-term physical and human resource
constraints to growth. This will require particular assistance to
strengthening Mali's relatively weak institutional capacity across sectors,
and to promoting the contribution of women to economic ac' vity. IDA is also
working with the Central Bank of WAMU (BCEAO) to promote regional economic
integration in the sub-region.
28.      Povert   Given Mali's current low per capita income and the lack of
reliable data on income distribution, IDA's overall strategy aims at promoting
broad based growth in production to alleviate poverty and improving the
standard of living. To fill the information gap on income distribution,
household budget surveys will be carried out under the ongoing SAL and a
monitoring system of welfare will be set up. This will facilitate the
development of a poverty strategy and the identification of targeted programs
in support of the poorest and most vulnerable groups among the generally poor
population.
29.      Several IDA operations already have a particular focus on poverty
alleviation. The policies promoted through operations in the agricultural



- 10 -
sector, including better extension services and research to promote
agricultural diversification, and incentives for farmers to increase food
production, should have a direct positive effect on food security, a key
determinant of poverty. Policy reforms in the context of the adjustment
program and support from many donors and a very active NOO sector attempt to
generate employment and thus income through the creation of small-scale
private enterprises. The ongoing programs in the education and health sectors
directly support the most vulnerable groups such as women and children. The
implementation of a population policy in the context of the ongoing health
project should contribute to poverty alleviation in the long-run. In the
short-term, IDA is supporting the government in reducing the social costs
associated with certain adjustment measures   departing civil servants and
laid-off workers from public enterprises will continue to receive separation
packages and assistance in finding or creating private sector employment
(project preparation, training and guarantee funds); and the planned public
works and employment project will help absorb part of the unemployed urban
work force by means of labor-intensive technologies.
30.      To foster private sector growth, IDA's strategy is to support:  (a)
further regulatory reforms, through the ongoing SAL and a planned private
sector development project; (b) strengthening of institutions that support the
private sector, including banks, through the proposed private sector
development and mining sector capacity building projects; (c) infrastructure
investment to reduce transport costs and increase the efficiency in urban
areas such as to enhance Mali's competitiveness, through the proposed public
works project and a transport sector operation; (d) agricultural production
growth through investment in and reorganization of extension and research
services through an ongoing sector hybrid adjustment/investment operation and
a planned agricultural research project, and promotion of private irrigation
schemes through a planned irrigation promotion project; (e) development of the
agro-industrial sector through a study on the agroprocessing potential and a
planned future project; (f) greater access for women to all support services
in the agricultural and industrial sectors, through specific components in
future projects based on findings of ongoing sector work; and (g) the
promotion of greater regional integration through ongoing sector work and
assistance to WAMU institutions.
31.      To improve public resources management, IDA's assistance will
concentrate ons (a) further reforms in taxation in the context of the ongoing
SAL; (b) budget restructuring under the SAL, the ongoing education sector
operations, and an upcoming public expenditure review; (c) strengthening of
public investment budgeting through a public expenditure review and a planned
institutional capacity building project; (c) civil service reform aimed at
limiting its cost while increasing its performance through the SAL and the
planned institutional development project; and (d) promoting more efficient
use of sectoral resources through all sector projects.
32.      To alleviate long-term human resources constraints, IDA' emphasis
will be on: (a) the promotion of primary education and more efficiency in
technical, secondary, and h'gher education through the ongoing education
sector project and a future education/training project; and (b) better
provision of basic health care and implementation of a population policy
through a health, population and rural water supply project which became
effective recently.
33.      With the aim of helping Mali cope better with its environmental
problems, its most important physical resource constraint, IDA staff has
reviewed environmental strategies relevant for Mali and incorporated some of
its findings in the design of a proposed multi-sectoral natural resource
management project. A household energy strategy was also recently prepared
and could be implemented in the context of an ongoing power project. IDA
would also be ready to help Mali, together with other donors, prepare a full



- 11 -
NEAP once government requests the assistance. Other physical constraints to
growth are the bottlenecks in Mali's infrastructure. IDA's assistance in this
area will concentrate on: (a) improving long-term planning in the transport
sector through an ongoing sector study and a planned operation; and (b)
increasing the efficiency of urban areas through the implementation of the
proposed public works program and a future urban project. Finally, to help
government address the ever-present threat of drought, IDA will contribute to
the preparation of a drought-preparedness plan and to the monitoring of rain-
fall during the growing season.
34.      Cross-cutting issues in IDA's strateav.  To reach the above
strategic objectives, two issues that cut across all sectors and operations,
in addition to those that are already described above as focal points of our
strategy - poverty alleviation, food security and the environment - will
receive particular attention in IDA's future lending operations and sector
work: (i) the promotion of women's activities, and (ii) capacity building and
greater focus on information, education and communication (IEC).
35.      Women.  Mali'. future development will critically depend on better
integration and promotion of women in all economic activities. While they
contribute significantly to economic growth, their effectiveness is
constrained by several factorss lower than average school enrollment, poor
maternal health, limited access to contraceptives, shortage of female
extension agents, little attention to women's needs in agricultural research,
and laws restricting women's rights. A Women in Development assessment is
being prepared to help develop an IDA strategy for women and to share WID
strategies with the Malian government and other donors. Several ongoing and
planned projects are designed to target women specifically, in particular all
operations in the human resources sector, the agricultural services project
and the proposed natural resource management project.
36.      Capacitv buildina and IEC. While Mali's overall economic
performance has been good, the effectiveness and sustainability of operations
and reform measures has remained constrained by two factors: a weak
institutional capacity and a lack of adequate information of economic actors.
Government staff often lacks the capacity for steady project execution, civil
servants as well as new influential groups outside government often do not
have sufficient analytical capabilities to shape the dialogue on economic
reforms, and communication between government and the civil society on
economic issues has been poor. This has contributed to slow disbursement of
project funds and sometimes incomplete implementation of formally adopted
policy reforms. These weaknesses need to be taken into account both in the
Bank's institutional development strategy and in the speed at which new
lending to Mali is increased.
37.      While most ongoing IDA operations already contain components
focusing on training and institutional strengthening, this area will receive
more emphasis in IDA's future lending and ESW program. An institutional
development note will be prepared, to develop a more comprehensive strategy
for institutional development. It will be followed up by a cross-sectoral
institutional capacity building project. Recently prepared projects, such as
the proposed natural resource management, mining capacity building and public
works projects, already focus on the setting up of a sustainable institutional
framework, emphasize the importance of direct participation of the local
village-level population in project design and execution, and include specific
information dissemination components to ensure the population's awareness of
projects' rationale and on benefits to be gained from their implementation and
policy reforms. The natural resource management project will also help Mali
build the capacity to design a national environmental strategy. All other
future projects will pay equal attention to capacity building, including
through training and well monitored technical assistance, and to sufficient
information dissemination throughout the project cycle. The human resources



- 12 -
strategy will complement these efforts. Mali is proposed as a focal point for
an AC8F sponsored action program to support the development of policy-capacity
in non-governmental organizations which play a key role in the policy debate.
A training program for Sahelian journalists is also under preparation in
collaboration with EDI. This will be particularly important in the new
political framework of a democratic government. Finally, a policy agenda has
been prepared for the new government, covering all important sectors and
communicating in concise form major issues and policy options in IDA's current
dialogue with Mali.
38.       Pronoged lendina proaram.  In addition to direct financing, IDA
lending to Mali has traditionally played an important catalytic role in
mobilizing external support. IDA resources will thus continue to be
programmed to have a maximum impact on total sector resource use, with
sectoral investment projects supporting further policy reforms. The Mali
lending program foresees a total allocation of about US$330 million for FY92-
96 (about US$ 65 million p.a.).
39.      The agricultural sector remains a priority.  The operations under
preparation include: an acricultural research project which would aim at
increasing environmentally sustainable agricultural production by improving
the responsiveness of research to farmers' and pastoralists' needs and
establishing a more effective linkage to extension services. Given Mali's
large irrigation potential, a second operation in this area (after the FY88
Office du Niger Consolidation Project) would aim at exploiting this potential
more fully by promoting the development of small-scale private irrigation
schemes. The strategy to give priority to rehabilitation and to limit new
construction to viable schemes would remain unchanged. An irrlgation
Promotion oneration would further strengthen Mali's planning and managerial
capacity for irrigation development; improve extension and training to
increa3e the productivity of existing irrigation perimeters and thus
agricultural production and farmers, incomes; encourage double cropping and
crop diversification raise the return on irrigation investment; and promote
domestic and foreign private investment. An agro-processina operation would
encourage private investment in this most important part of Mali's small
industrial sector and at the same time increase the value of agricultural
production. Finally, a second agricultural services project would extend the
program started under the first project which became effective last year and
has already demonstrated its positive effect on agricultural yields.
40.      In support of the government's efforts to combat environmental
degradation, IDA will finance a time slice of a long-term national natural
resource management oroaram. The project is described in the latter part of
this report.
41.      In infrastructure, three operations are planned over the next five
years. The proposed Public works and transoort sector operations, and the
future urban vroiect aim at alleviating long-term constraints to economic
growth by improving transport planning and management and the efficiency of
urban areas, while the first also promotes small-scale companies to undertake
urban rehabilitation work, thus creating employment. The proposed public
works and employment creation project will help absorb temporarily part of the
unemployed work force by means of labor-intensive technologies and contribute
to private sector development and employment creation and thus poverty
alleviation in the long-run. The project will at the same time increase the
productivity of Bamako and its vicinity by means of a program of urgently
needed small-scale public works. It should also demonstrate the feasibility
of less cumbersome and more transparent procurement procedures and contract
administration thus making the use of public resource more efficient. The
future transport sector operation would aim at reducing the cost of providing
and maintaining transport infrastructure, ensuring a regulatory environment
that encourages transport service provision at reduced cost, improving the



- 13 -
quality of sectoral investment planning, and lowering the cost of
infrastructure construction through greater competition. The future urban
project could focus on municipal finance, looking at tax collection and cost
recovery, more efficient municipal service provision, and the development of
financLal instruments for medium and long-term housing finance.
42.      Given that two large operations are currently ongoing in the human
resources sector (one became effective only earlier this year), and that they
will require intensive supervision over the next five years, only one
additional operation is currently planned in this sector. The goal of the
future education and trainina project is to extent the ongoing program in the
educational sector in order to further expand and improve primary education.
It would also focus on raising the quality, relevance and efficiency of
technical and vocational education and training and on the cost-effectiveness
of overall sectoral resource use.
43.      Two projects are designed to promote the development of Mali's
private industrial sector directly. The -rivate sector development project
will provide technical support directly to private enterprises and to existing
agencies that support the private sector (such as the chamber of commerce),
improve the-public enterprise privatization process, improve the data
available to banks and provide training to bank staff for project evaluation,
audit and undertake diagnostic studies of Mali's banks as a basis for
introducing institutional development programs, finance studies to explore the
potential of mutual savings and credit schemes and examine the appropriate
modalities for housing finance in Mali. A minina sector capacitv buildina
project would help government design and implement a new strategy for this
promising sector with potential for rapid growth. The project would focus on
studies in the legislative, economic, fiscal, institutional, artisanal and
environmental aspects of the mining sector, restructuring of the institutional
framework, revision of legislation and procedures, and an investment promotion
component to promote specific mineralized areas to potential investors
through, among other things, better availability of data on the sector
(organized and synthesized geological data on prospective mining areas). A
bankina gector operation will build on the results of various sector studies
to deepen Mali's financial system.
44.      To improve project implementation and the effectiveness of economic
management across sectors, IDA will prepare an institutional development
project that will focus on key areas where the potential impact of capacity
strengthening appears high, based on the findings of the upcoming
institutional development note. These areas will most likely include: (i)
public investment budgeting, which remains extremely weak in terms of
institutional setup and staff training; (ii) civil service reform, for which
the ongoing SAL is laying the foundation through retrenchment and beginning
*       management improvement; (iii) procurement reform, which has started with the
enactment of a new procurement law; (iv) further strengthening of the legal
and judicial framework; and (v) building the capacity for policy analysis.
45.      The lending strategy balances the needs for investment and is
predicated upon the continuation of the current performance on the macro-
economic front. Current projections indicate that, barring unforeseen
developments, Mali will not require new commitments for adjustment lending.
In the context of the Special Program of Assistance for Africa (SPA), the Bank
will continue to monitor developments closely and will adjust its strategy
accordingly. In the unlikely event of a policy reversal (i.e. PFP process
off-track), IDA would revert to a program of scaled-back investments focussing
on essential needs for the next generation.
46.      Economic and sector work.   The planned economic and sector work
will support this lending strategy. Several sector studies, on the transport
sector, Mali's agro-processing potential, urban mutual credit, housing



- 14 -
finance, and youth employment, and the institutional development study will be
carried out before the start-up of preparation of respective projects.
Studies on women in development, poverty, and the private sector are aimed at
developing well-focused IDA strategies including specific action programs for
each of those areas, to complement a country strategy paper to be prepared in
FY93. A public expenditure review (PER) will take stock of the current
problems regarding inter-and intra sectoral resource allocation and public
expenditure management, with particular attention to investment programming,
social sector spending and the institutional dimension of resource management
issues which cut across sectors. Studies are also underway at the regional
level to promote greater economic integration.
47.       IFC and MIGA. ITC is actively supporting IDA's strategy to promote
the development of Mali's private sector. But Mali, as a land-locked country,
offers comparatively few opportunities for projects beyond the small-scale
size, except in the mining sector, which has a significant potential. IFC's
Board recently approved a Us$23.2 million investment (US$1.5 million in equity
and US$21.7 million in shareholders' advances) to help BHP Minerals of
Australia expand a sold mine, which started production in 1990.  Gold
production, curre: Ly at about 100,000 oz p.a. is expected to increase by 1994
to an average of J0,000 oz. p.a. Other gold projects are being considered
and IFC participation will likely be sought once the concessions have been
granted.
48.       IFC's strategy in Mali will focus on the development of small and
medium-scale enterprises through the African Project Development Facility
(APDF) and the Africa Enterprise Fund (AEF). Two ASP projects (Labo-Mali and
Bank of Africa-Mali (BOAM)) were approved in 1991, but funds are still
uncommitted. IFC's investment in Labo-Mali consists of a loan to help a
Malian pharmacist/biologist set up the first privately-owned medical
laboratory in Bamako. IFC's investment in BOAM consists of an equity
participation of US$250,000 to help BOAM strengthen its financial structure
and improve management and control mechanisms. IFC could also provide
assistance in the privatization of remaining state-owned companies.
49.      Mali's membership in MIGA was ratified in 1990.  However, Mali has
not yet completed payment of its capital subscription. MIGA's Board has so
far approved the issuance of one guarantee (to a Canadian gold mining
company), subject to Mali fulfilling its membership requirements. Discussions
with government officials regarding these requirements are ongoing. Once all
membership requirements are met, MIGA could begin to play a more active role
in facilitating foreign investment in Mali. MIGA has received one other
Preliminary Application for a mining project. Advisory services have already
been provided to Mali by FIAS, the joint IFC/MIGA Foreign Investment Advisory
Services group, which undertook a diagnostic study on Mali's investment
legislation and contributed to the design of regulatory reforms implemented
under the structural adjustment program.
50.       Coordination with the IMF and Donors.  The ongoing IDA structural
and sector adjustment operations are part of Mali's overall adjustment program
that is also supported by the INF and multilateral and bilateral donors.
Their support has been successfully coordinated through the SPA process. All
IDA adjustment operations have been cofinanced by several donors: including
the African Development Bank, the European Community, France, the Saudi Fund,
the OPEC Fund, Japan, the Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, Switzerland, Canada
and Norway. Mali has benefitted from several standby and two annual SAF
arrangements and is currently applying for a first drawing under an ESAF
arrangement. Most recently, a new PFP was agreed between the government, the
Bank and the IMF establishing the basic macroeconomic framework for future
donor assistance. The Bank will continue to work closely with the IMF in
providing policy recommendations to maintain macroeconomic stability and
ensure consistency in policy reforms.



- 15 -
51.      Given the importance of foreign assistance to finance the majority
of Mali's public investments, aid coordination efforts regarding non-
adjustment lending will continue to receive high priority. Aid coordination
will focus on reaching agreement with the donors on priorities for public
investment programs and on building consensus for addressing long-term issues.
In addition to informal donor meetings organized around specific sector
operations, and continued close contact by the resident mission and visiting
*        Bank missions with local donor representatives, public expenditure reviews
will in future be used to assure close coordination among donors. (Mali is
one of the pilot SPA countries for joint PER work).
Criteria for Monitorina Prooress
52.      The coming twelve months will be critical to lay the foundation for
long-term economic growth and the alleviation of poverty in Mali. The
political context, with the first democratically elected government now taking
office, also provides a unique opportunity. The Bank group strategy has been
designed to respond to the political openness and the mobilization of the
civil society to support fundamental changes that could significantly improve
Mali's prospects for future development.
53.      The objectives of the IDA strategy, as described in paragraph 27,
are central to government's recently negotiated PFP for 1992-94. Satisfactory
progress in meeting these objectives would be reflected in periodic reviews of
this policy framework (including fiscal, balance of payments and monetary
performance), as well as in successful reviews for upcoming tranche releases
for the ongoing SAL, agricultural sector adjustment/investment operation (AG
SECAL) and education sector consolidation project. More specifically, to
measure progress with regard to the objective of fostering private sector
growth, review missions would considers whether petroleum product prices have
been liberalized, the labor code revised, a new commercial code adopted,
granting in particular equal rights to businesswomen, and some of the
commercial courts have become operational.
54.      With regard to the goal of improving public resources management,
sufficient progress would require, in particular, agreement on the 1993
government budget (including both recurrent and investment expenditure), which
would respect targets established under ongoing sector operations for
provisions to the health and primary education sectors. It would also require
that the government maintain the wage bill at the level agreed in the PFP,
continue implementation of the voluntary departure program from the civil
service to meet the respective condition for release of the SAL second
tranche, and divest from four additional public enterprises. In the
agricultural sector, we expect that a performance contract will be concluded
with the main rice producing agency, and that the specific conditions for
release of the last tranche of the AG SECAL be fulfilled, which will imply, in
particular, the representation of farmers in decision making regarding the
cotton sector.
55.      To start effectively alleviating long-term human resources
constraints, it will be crucial that the agreed emergency plan for primary
education be put Jn place for the 1992/93 school year, that redeployment of
teachers, limitation of class repetition, extension of double-shift teaching
and multi-grade clauses, and the planned reduction of scholarship spending be
effectively implemented, and that the multi-donor health, population, and
rural water supply project be launched. To reduce long-term physical resource
constraints, the first steps will be to start the implementation of the
natural resource management project and the strengthening of the institutional
framework for implementation of a national environmental strategy.



- 16 -
II. The Natural Resource Management Project
56.      Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The proposed project supports both
the strategies of the Government and IDA in terms of ensuring efficient and
sustainable use of natural resources in Mali. The Project's participatory
approach corresponds to IDA's strategy of enhancing local governance. The
proposed project would: (a) build upon natural resource management experience
gained under recent projects funded by IDA and other donors, such as Mopti
Area Development and Forestry II, and the IDA-administered Norwegian grant
supporting the Government's PNLCD program; (b) reinforce IDA's leading role in
such key areas as agricultural extension services by building on the recent
Agricultural Services Project (FY91), and (c) contribute to the continued
improvement of donor coordination.
57.      Proiect Obiectives.   The primary objective of the Project is to
introduce a rational land use system which will halt, and then reverse, the
process of degradation of the natural resource base, which is currently the
greatest threat to sustainable agricultural growth. The specific objective of
the Project is two-fold: (a) to build up the capacity of local communities to
manage their own natural resources, and build institutional capacity within
the MaEE to enable it to advise villagers on these matters; and (b) to build
an environmental information system for coordinating and guiding the diverse
initiatives underway throughout the country, and incorporate the lessons of
those field experiences into a national NRM strategy.
S8.      Proiect Description.  The proposed project is conceived as the
initial five-year phase of a 15-20 year national program. The core of the
project would be the provision of the necessary support to village communities
to enable them to establish, implement and monitor community NRM Plans
covering their own natural resources. The components of the proposed project
are as follows: (a) identification, design and implementation of Community
Natural Resource Management Plans in about 150 villages within three
administrative regions of Mali; (b) design and implementation of a park
management plan for the Baoule National Park; (c) institutional support for
(i) regional and local government authorities, with a view to assisting
project management and helping rural communities to implement their community
NRM Plans, and (ii) providing central Government services with basic
environmental monitoring facilities; (d) a training and public information and
awareness program on natural resource management; and (e) technical
assistance, consultant services, applied research and studies required for
project implementation. The nature of field investments to be carried out at
the village level would not be known until they would be defined by the
communities themselves during project implementation. The Project would
finance civil works (connected with land and water conservation, water supply,
and delimitation of boundaries); vehicles and equipment, technical assistance
and consultant services; training, acquisition of aerial photographs and
satellite imagery, and incremental operating costs. Total Project costs are
estimated at US$32.1 million with a foreign exchange component of US$17.4
million (54%). Norway, Germany and the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) participated in the appraisal of the'Project and will participate in
its financing. A breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in
Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and disbursement, processing
events and the status of Bank Group and IFC operations in Mali are given in
Schedules C and D, respectively. Maps and the Staff Appraisal Report (No.
10370-MLI) dated May 1, 1992 are also attached.
59.      Proiect Implementation.   Four institutional levels will be involved
in project implementation: (a) village level; (b) sub-district level; (c)
district and regional levels; and (d) national level. At the villaae level, a
village NRM group, with representatives from subsectoral groups such as



- 17 -
farmers, women, herders, and forest users, would be established. The village
NRM group would be the primary channel of communication between the project
and the village, and would be consulted on any action or decision to be taken.
At the sub-district level, Technical Support Teams (TSTs) would train
extension agents and help them to assist village communities in designing and
supervising their community NRM Plans. At the district and regional levels,
project implementation would be supervised by three Regional Coordinators and
10 District Coordinators who would be staff from the Technical Departments of
MXAE.  At the national level, the project's Central Implementing and
Monitoring Unit (CIMU) will be headed by a Project Director, who will be an
Advisor to the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Environment and will
report directly to him.  The CIWU will have overall day-to-day responsibility
for project implementation, including financial management, procurement and
reporting. At the national level, overall coordination of project activities
would be the responsibility of the Project National Coordinating Committee
(PNCC) which would be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and
Environment, and would include representatives from the MAEE's technical
departments and other ministries involved in natural resource management. The
PNCC would meet at least twice a year and would approve the project's annual
work plans, review its activities during the year and would ensure full
understanding and support of project activities by the various institutions
involved. Finally, the Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department
recently created in the MAEE would be granted resources to start setting up an
environmental information system to be implemented after the mid-term review
of the Project.
60.      Proiect Sustainabilitv and Fiscal Affordabilit .  The development
and implementation of effective land tenure laws will be critical to future
sustainability of the Project. During the Project mid-term review, the
Borrower and the Association will assess the experience gained under land
tenure arrangements, with a view to defining a mutually agreed action plan,
including measures to replace, modify or implement the existing land tenure
framework. Moreover, if the NRM programs are successful as anticipated, the
village NRM Groups will continue to implement them in the future, using their
own resources, while the technical back-up services provided by Government
will be ensured in the context of the regular extension work function in
agriculture, health and education.
61.      Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement.  An analysis of the
now completed Mali Livestock Project (Cr. 538-MLI) which included a major
livestock component, and of the Mali Forestry I Project (Cr. 881-MLI), a free-
standing forestry project, indicates that these projects were not as effective
as planned. Among other factors, four key problems kept recurring: (a) the
projects ignored the crucial inter-sectoral linkages that are essential in any
rural environment; (b) the local communities were insufficiently involved in
project planning and implementation and, therefore, had little incentive to
participate; (c) centralized project management units were poorly placed to
react to complex, highly specific local conditions; and (d) the establishment
of fixed, long-term physical targets was not only unrealistic but also often
detrimental to project implementation. Within this framework, managers were
unable to react to lessons learned during implementation and to dynamic
changes in the natural environment. The proposed project has been designed
taking these lessons into account, and will focus on the inter-sectoral
linkages essential in any rural environment and use a participatory approach
involving the local communities in the management of their own resources.
62.      Acreed Actions.  The Government has agreed on the following actions:
(al as conditions of effectivenesss (i) a detailed procurement plan with
timetables would be submitted to IDA for approval; (ii) bidding documents for
subcontracting the skills development component would be prepared and
submitted for IDA's approval; (iii) the borrower has established the proof
that land tenure arrangaments to be tested under the Project can be



- 18 -
effectively implemented within the framework of current laws and regulations;
(iv) a staffing plan for the Project, satisfactory to IDA, would be
implemented; (v) contractual arrangements satisfactory to IDA would have been
concluded between the proposed project's CIMU and the Directorate of the
Agricultural Services Project (Cr. 2235-MLI) on the coordination of the two
project activities; (vi) a monitoring system satisfactory to IDA would have
been established for the Project; (vii) accounting and management systems
satisfactory to IDA would have been set up; (viii) a procedures manual
satisfactory to IDA would be drawn up, (ix) an independent auditing firm would
be hired to audit project accounts; and (x) all outstanding audits (Cr. 1597-
MLI, Cr. 2163-MLI and Cr. 1906-NLI) has been provided, satisfactory to IDA;
tb) as covenantgs assurances were obtained during negotiatione that (i)
procurement of goods, works and consultant services would take place in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDAI (ii) the composition and
functions of the Project National Coordinating Committee (PNCC) would be
established in a manner satisfactory to IDAI (iii) a staffing plan for the
Project was drawn up and the Borrower would employ and maintain staff with
qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to
IDA; (iv) the nature and value of the key indicators of project achievements
would be acceptable to IDA; (v) withdrawals from the credit special accounts
made on the basis of 80Es would be carried out according to procedures
agreeable to IDA; (vi) the accounting and financial management system would
be set up by consultants in a manner satisfactory to IDA; (vii) project
records and accounts would be audited each fiscal year; (viii) each year, by
December 31-at the latest, the Project Director would convene a project
implementation review meeting with IDA and the other donors; and (ix) a mid-
term review would be undertaken by Government and all co-financiers no later
than December 31, 1995, and the operational conclusions agreed by the
Government and IDA would be promptly implemented; (lc as a condition of
disbursamnkt (i) before any disbursement for expenses under the Baoule
National Park component, new park boundaries satisfactory to IDA have been
adopted by the Borrower; and (ii) no withdrawals shall be made for expenses
incurred under the National Environmental Monitoring facility until its
institutional set up, work plan and financial management capacity have been
developed to the satisfaction of IDA.
63.      Environmental Asgects.  The broad objective of the project is to
halt and reverse the process of natural resource degradation in ordrr to
secure sustainable agricultural growth, enhanced biodiversity and ecological
stability, and sustainable management of forests and wildlife. The proposed
project is clearly intended to have a positive impact on the environment, but
any program aiming simultaneously at enhancing production and protecting
natural resources can have negative impacts. Such risks include, for
instance, water pollution by fertilizers, loss of biodiversity due to land
clearing, soil erosion resulting from intensive tillage, and rangeland
degradation due to overgrazing. The reorganization of activities at the
village level could also disrupt sound, longstanding traditional practices.
All these potential Po,ative impacts have been acknowledged in the project
design, and adequate piovision has been made for environmental monitoring.
The assessment and monitoring of the project's environmental impact will be
the responsibility of the CIMU. A monitoring program will be set up at the
regional level by the National Environmental Monitoring Facility, which will
monitor environmental change in the ecological zones covered by the project in
comparison to changes in control zones and in conservation areas such as the
Baoule National Park. These monitoring programs will be able to detect any
negative trends during implementation and propose immediate mitigation
measures.
64. Proaram Obiective Cateaories. The introduction of community natural
resource management plans, designed to ensure the sustainable use of land,
water, vegetation and wildlife resources, should significantly contribute to
halting and reversing environmental -degradation In Mali.  Sustainable



- 19 -
agricultural growth promoted by the Project, and the opportunity for villagers
to earn additional off-season income by providing labor for conservation works
would help alleviate poverty and enhance food security. The Project's
training and public awareness component has segments directed towards women,
with the aim of assisting them to organize themselves to better manage their
resources and play a more active role in NRM decision-making.
65.   Proiect Benefits.  Given the scope of the project's expected results,
it would substantially enhance the quality of life of most of the 95,000
people in the project area. Benefits would be particularly significant in
three areast (a) increased aoricultural. forestry and livestock productiont
the establishment and implementation of improved and sustainable production
practices would contribute to a higher standard of living and quality of life
for the villagers concerned, who are among the poorest and most vulnerable in
the Malian population; 1b) human reource development: in addition to skills
development and public awareness, the project would contribute to the
empowerment of local communities and to the enhancement of local management
.capabilities, with special emphasis on women, who will be encouraged to
organize within village groups which will participate in decision-making and
which will be the target of well-focussed training programs-by female
extension agents; (ci overall environmental benefits: the project would help
restore ecological stability and introduce a sustainable land-use system
balancing production against resource consumption; (d) employment aenerations
the additional labor required by village NRM plans, over and above the 25
percent contribution by beneficiaries, would be financed by the Project,
providing employment during the dry season when productive agricultural
activities are not possible; and (el local community imoact: communities near
the Baoule National Park would benefit from direct employment generated by the
park and indirect tourism-related activities such as tour guiding, safaris,
etc. as well as from the planned management of the Park and surrou:nding areas.
The preservation of Mali's biodiversity for future generations weuld be
assured through the sound management of the Baoule National Park by the local
population. The Project would lay an excellent foundation for the devalopment
of a National Environmental Action Plan for Mali.
66.  Risks.  In a project of this type, the major risks are: (a) a possible
decrease in political commitment on the part of Government, particularly at
the national directorate level. Nevertheless, the firm commitment of the
Nalian administration to decentralization and the strong support provided by
other donors give definite grounds for optimism; (b) insufficient
understanding and poor implementation of the community natural resource
management approach, since it requires skills very different from those
involved in conventional top-down practices. In addition, implementation of
the project's strategy would result in a shift of power and authority that not
all political (or even technical) staff are ready to accept; and (c) the CIMU
may lack institutional authority, a problem which might undermine its ability
to develop a national capacity to coordinate the strategies of various actors
involved in natural resource management. To minimize these risks, the
following actions will be taken: (a) together with other donors, TDA will
encourage reforms likely to contribute to effective administrative
decentralization; (b) project implementation will be supported by well
focussed supervision; and (c) future developmnts aimed at addressing
environmental issues will be closely monitored and encouraged.
67.      Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that
the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington D.C
Nay 1, 1992



SCHEDULE A
- 20 -
Estimated Costs and Financina Plan
______ _____ (US$    M)   _ _ _ _
Estimated Costs A/              Local         Forelan      Total
Village Level Investments               6.1             9.5         15.6
Baoule National Park                    0.8             1.1          1.9
Field Technlcal Support                 2.2             0.8          3.0
Central Implementatlon and
Monitoring Unit                         0.5             0.2          0.7
Skills Development and PublTe
Awareness                               2.0              -           2.0
TA, Research and Studies                0.S             2.3          2.9
National Environmental Monitoring
Unit                                    0.2               0.6        0.7
Refinancing of PPF                      0.2                0          0.2
Total Base Costs                       12.8             14.4        27.0
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies                     0.8             1.8          2.1
Total Project Costs                     1.2             1.8          3.0
14. 6                           I7S  82.1
pj Net of Identifiable taxes and duties
(US$  M)    __  ___
Financing Plan           Local       Foreign       Total
Beneficiaries                   4.0           -           4.0
IDA                             5.4          16.0         20.4
Norway                          3.3          1.7          5.0
germany                         1.0          0.2          1.2
UNDP                             0.9          0.6          1.5
TOTAL                           14. e71



- 21 -
SCHEDULE3 
BR1D&IC1AI KaiPage 1 of 2
N&A" RESOURCgE Hgl PURJEC
Tabb- Summan of Prwosatd Pourm nt ArnementA
(115 mliUon equivalet)
*                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Procurement Method _  
.  Pioict Elenients                                                  _ _  _      .-..Other          Tota,l Co
I. WORKS
1.1   Building Renovation- oundary                     _           0.8             -                -                0.8
Delimiaioan                                                 (0.8)                                              (0.8)
1.2   Land & Water                                     _           4.9            4.5             6.1 a/h            15.5
ConsorvamonWoks_                                            (4.9)         (4.S) V             -               (9.4)
2.   GOODS
2.1    ConstuctionMatedal                              -          1.3             1.0              0.6a/             2.9
-          (1.3)         (I -0) gd                           (2.3)
2.2   Equipment and Material                           -           0.4             0.1             1.2 gW             1.7
-          (0.4)          (0.1)                              (0.5)
23    Vehiclea                                        0.5          0.2            0.1              031c               1.1
(D.5)        (0.2)          (0.1) I                            (0.8)
2.4    Aedal Photographs                              0.2                        0.1 hi            0.0!/             0.3
and Satelli Imagey                             (0.2)                      (0.1) L/                           (0.3)
3.   CONSULTANCIES
3.1   Studies (eniranmental Data                                                   1.0                                1.0
Processing, Mapping, Gender,                                               (1.0)                              (1.0)
Technical, Accountig)                           -            -
3.2   Technica Asstance                                -            -                                                 1.4
33    SkiDl Gap AnalyasisTining                        -            -             0.4             1.4 c/dI            1.7
(0.4)            13 Si             (0.4)
4.   TRANIG                                                 -            -              1.7                                2.0
(1.7)           03                 (1.7)
S.   MISCELLANEOUS
5.1   Incremental Operating Cota                       -            -             3.0        0.5  Ig//              3.5
5.2   PPF Refulcng                                     -            -             (3.0)                              (3.0)
0.2                                0.2
(0.2)                              (0.2)
TOTAL                                                       0.7          7.6           12.1              11.7             32.1
of which (IDA)                                             (0.7)        (7.6)         (12.1)                              (20.4)
NoteFiguree in parenthe are tw respective montw financod by the IDA redit. NI.PF. Not IDA-firnaned.
gtCo-finarced Jointly wih Norwy, procurement would be In socrdenoe with Worid  ank Guidesins: Proouremnt Under ISRO Loasn and IDA Creditb Washington. D.C.,
*    May 198b). Inludes land and vwr cneeavtion work: US$2.1 million; constnruotn meti: US$0.6 million; equipment and material: US0  million; skifll gap nalysi:
US$1.3 million; operating cotst: US$0.1 miillion.
k/Snaflicary contribution of W.1 4.0 miilion In the form of labor and/or osh provided by benefidcies.
clCo4financed in part  with UNOP: prourd In accordance with UNOP regulaons In conformity with pars. 1 A of Worid leank GuIdelins: Prourement - 'md  IfiO Loons
and IDA Cret Washington. D.C. May 1985. Includes equipment and material: US$0.2 million: vehicles: US$0.3 mililon; teohnicl assistrc   US$0.3 million; operating
oats: U8$0.3 million.
*fCo.financad in pareb with Germny tGTZ; proeured In eacordanoe wWth GTZ reguldons In conformity With pare. 1.4 of World 8rak Ouldeline: Procurement Under ISRO
Loans and IDA Creditt Washington. D.C.. May 19851. Includes techical assistanest US$1.1 mnilion; operating costs: USO.1.
fdUS*18000 of "adeil photogrephyMatellte Imagwy would be co-flnanced In paralle with UNOP and procured In acordance with UNP regulations an stated in footnote gI.
IAdditional labor ever and above th beneficIrIes' ontdibution of US$4.0 milUon will be provided through labor contat on th basis of standrd unitery cmt with
procedurme aceeptable to IDA.
gCatruotion mteri such as concete stel rods, fencin to fbe procured on th bst of et let thre pros quotatiost.
hSince ony one oemp    produces ither spot or landast satellite Imagery, sole sourec procurenotn will be applied.



- 22 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
Disbursements
% of Expenditures
IDA Allocation       to be Financed
Cateaory of Expenditure               (US 1  Xlin             b  IDA
1. Civil Works
A.  Project Civil Works               9.0                    100
B.  Civil Works-Baoul6 Park           0.5                    100
2. Vehicles, Equipment, Materials        2.9                     100
3. Aerial Photegraphs, Satellite         0.3                     100
Imagery
4. Consultant Services                    1.2                    100
5. Training                               1.6                   100
6. Incremental Operating Costs           2.7                    100
7. Refinancing of PPF                    0.2                    100
8. Unallocated
TOTAL                                20.4
(US$ m)
IDA   FISCAL   YEAR
Estimated IDA      9       94     95      96       9       98      99
Disbursements A_
Annual               0.6    3.1    4.9       6.5     3.3    1.6    0.4
Cumulative           0.6    3.7    8.6      15.1    18.4   20.0   20.4
A/    Projections are idantical to the standard disbursement profile for
agriculture projects in Mali with the exception of FY96 where one
semester is compressed and the percentage becomes 62% instead of 54%.



- 23 -
schedule C
IPUMIC OF HIL!
m~~ffna~Rmzagu&za
*               TTimetable of Key Pr-aioit Procssino Events
(a)  Tim  taken to prepare:s            IPSs 02/01/88: 45 month
(b)  Prepared bys                       goverment with FAO-CP's assistance
*()  First IDA missions                 03/17/88
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:       11/18/92
(e)  Negotiations:                      04/20/92
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:    01/28/93
(g)  List of Relevant PCRe and PARs:  Livestock Project PAR - 9688
Forestry Project PAR - 7953
Livestock Project PCR - 6846
I Project prepared by P. Ardouin Duoazet (FAO/CP)
assisted by S. Bouare (?P=) and J. Iall (IDA).



- 24 -
SCHEDL;E D
Status Of Bank Group Oerations in MALI                 "age 1 of 2
PFDBR25 - Sumary Statement Of Loans and IDA Credits
(LOA data as of 3/3092  - MIS data as of W14/92)
Aount In US mil IlIon
(less cancellations)
Loan or      Fiscal                                                                               UldIs- Closing
Credit No.     Year  Borror                         lurposo                    Ban          IDA    bursed   Date
Credits
33 CredIts(s) closed                                                                      348.69
CF0070-lLI    1984   MALI                           WATER %MY I                            6.30       1.07 06/92
C140M.41I    1984   MALI                            GASMOL(BIMASS)                         7.60        .53 083092(R)
C159704LI    1985   MALI                            MOPTI AREA DEVT.                      19.50      11.05 08/30/92(R)
C16290-MtI   1988   MALI                            HIGHWAYS V                            48.60      25.37  12/31/93(R)
C16841.LI  1986   MALI                             FORESTRY 11                            6.30        .24  12/31/92(R)
C16770411.I M198    MA I                              L"   II                             28.00       7.94 03/1/93
CAL350AIJS) 1988   MALI                             OFFICE WU NIGER II                     9.00       4.72 0/9
C19C604LI S) 1988   IIALI                           OFFICE DU NIGER II                    39.80      35.53 0 (97
C1938041LI    1988   MALI                           P.E. INST DEV                          9.50       3.11  12/31/94
C19980-bLI    1989   MALI                           POW  II                               33.00      28.30 12/31/95
C20540tWLI S) 1989   MALI                           HEIMAN RESOURCE SECAL                 26.00      18.72 12/31/94
C21630-MLI S) 199    MALI                            AS SECAL                             53.00      27.50   2/31/86
C21880-LI (S) 1991   MALI                            SAL I                                70.00      46.50 06/393
C221704fLI    1991   MALI                           HEALTH/POPULATIONRU                   2.0        28.22 12/3197
C22350-LALI   1991   MALI                           AG SERVICES                           24.40      22.86 00(30/95
TOTAL nuber Credits -  15                                                                  407.60    259.86
TOTAL*                                                                     754.29
of Nhich repaid                                                           13.95
TOTAL held by Bark & IDA                                                   740.34
Awmwt sold
of nhich repaid
TOtAL undlsbursed                                                                     259.70
Notes:
* Not yet effective
* Not yet signd
Total Approved, Repayments, nd Outstaning balance represent both active and Inactive Loans and Credits.
JR3 indicates fomally revised ClosIng Date.
IndIcates SAL/SEcAL Loans and Credits.
the Nt Awproved and Bi Repaymnts are historical value, all others are market value.
The S lirn, Effective. ad Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department off Ical data ard are not taken
from te Task Ict file.



- 25 -
SCHEDULE D
Page 2of 2
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SUMMARY OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1992
Original Gross Commitments
fiscal                                       Type of                                    Loa_n   Eauitz  Total
Year           Company                      Business                                      -   US$       T m-T-------
1978      Societ6 Mamadou Sada Diallo and             General                     0.64                     0.64
Freres (SOMACI)                             Manufacturing
1982      Societe Industrielle de Karlte (SIKA)   Sheanut Processing              1.85         0.45        2.302
Labo-Mali                                   Medical Lab
1991                                                                              0.11           -         0.11
Total Gross Commitments
2.604                      .0
Less repayments, write off and
cancellations                                                           2.49         0.45        2.94
Net commitments held by IFC
0.11        0.00         0.11
Total undisbursed
0.11                     0.11
Proiects A,yrovod but not Sisned as of March 31. 1992
1991     Bank of Africa-Mali                            Banking                                0.22        0.22
1992      Societ6 Miniere de Syema (SOMISY)             Mining                     .          23.20       23.203
[         1                                                                                     23.42        23.42
Fully repaid
Written off
3         Consists of remunerated (LIBOR + 2% shareholders  advances of
US$21.7 million and equity of US$1.5 million.



MAP SECTION



~~~~~~M               L                                                                                                      1w nq   h. . _
M A L I                                                                                                    b         aep
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SOILS AND RAINFALL
a. swios   l2us                                           1  s
OL-Gt's                    MGM                                                                                                  ALGERIA 
-EZI   - GIEOA- L                                            I4
cm  iEE^o<>>m               rZ       +I - lAOI  YR-Y,Aw
liii   VEtflSOLS       -
t.yN. W         EZI N NON-IDf41WW
60     W14GM OF~ GOWIN PSJ, dffp
-a., a. -   ~~~~~~~~~~Orm 1 
140~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
120 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~SIDLIENGIEAG                                                                      EI    IEI
I~~~~~~~~    



M A L I
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARiES                                                                  ,             
AND AREA OF THE PROJECT
ADMINISTRTV  BONARE                                                                                                               4
*   \  11ALCAM
o  TOAABOUCTOU REGION                              0
6
cm=60uN'  wmAo  REGION
_                                      t                  X          -      ,       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/7
0~~~~~~~~~~~~
N>VK t \MAURITANIAt
GUINEA                                                                                                                  MALI~~ULI
M A U R I T A N I A   /  /_        -         \~~~~~~~~~~~NI GE 
0             This mop ha ~in ernil use o  -yhe WaIAdMALn
f'                     The~~~~~~~n Wbs Bank's3ve!y f& tiy
X,>^YES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o ti ax' erwienceKOf i  +   f 
; , + ^ n~~~~~ ouni   KSO1frzad is
Gro4Jp.The denarinationsr used
a-nd the bounda ies shwNn
o50  too  150 200  250                       'art at theWdo ldBankGru                           I                             S GNAn 
t  I I s                     / 0E_                               any judement on the eaal                                  tASO
Sk*A Oanlyterritory or agj10                                            IfI
COTE [XIVOIRE         ~~~~~endorsement of acceptance
_ { COTE D'NVOIRE    {s  boundaries                   |UIN3A



