Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2370 MLI
Agreement
for
the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by the
Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs
of the Kingdom of Norway
in Conjunction with the Natural Resources
Management Project
in
REPUBLIC OF MALI
Dated December 2, 1993
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2370 MLI
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 2, 1993, between the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
of the Kingdom of Norway (Norway) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association) to provide for the administration by the Association of certain funds to 
be made available by Norway to the Republic of Mali (Mali).
WHEREAS (A) the Agreement, dated October 2, 1986, among Norway, the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Association provides the 
framework for cooperation in the financing of development projects by the parties 
thereto;
(B)
Norway wishes to make available to Mali a grant in the amount of thirty 
million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 30,000,000) (the Grant) to assist Mali in financing the 
goods and services required to carry out part of the project (the Project) which is 
referred to in the Preamble and described in Schedules 1 and 2 to the Agreement 
between Mali and the Association (the Norwegian Grant Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
administer the Grant upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of Norway, shall enter 
into such agreement or agreements with Mali, as it may deem appropriate for the 
Page  2
purpose of assisting in the financing of the Project. Such agreements with Mali shall, 
inter alia, provide that the proceeds of the Grant may be withdrawn by Mali to finance 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the part of the Project to: (i) 
provide support to Government services at regional and local levels to help villagers 
to set up, implement, and monitor community natural resource management plans; and 
(ii) implement a training and public awareness program and that the amounts to be 
withdrawn need not be repaid and shall bear no interest or other charges. A copy of 
each such agreement shall be furnished by the Association to Norway.
Section 1.02. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of Norway, shall have 
the sole responsibility for the supervision of the Project.
Section 1.03. The administration and enforcement of any pro-visions of any 
agreement entered into between Mali and the Association for the purposes of this 
Agreement shall be handled solely by the Association, and the Association specifically 
reserves the right, at its discretion and without notice to Norway, to exercise, 
refrain from exercising or waive any rights under such agreement or to modify any 
provision thereof, provided, however, that before suspending the right of Mali to make 
withdrawals of funds under such agreement, the Association shall inform Norway and 
afford Norway a reasonable opportunity for consultation with the Association.
Section 1.04. The Association shall exercise the same care in the discharge of 
its functions under this Agreement as it exercises with respect to the administration 
and management of its own affairs and shall have no further responsibility to Norway 
in respect thereof.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. (a) For the purpose of this Agreement, Norway shall, subject to 
parliamentary appropriations, deposit an amount of thirty million Norwegian Kroner 
(NOK 30,000,000) into a general account with Norges Bank in the name of the 
Association (the "Trust Account").
(b)
The said amount shall be deposited upon request in five tranches, 
including the tranche of five million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 5,000,000) deposited in 
1992, over a period of five years as follows:
(i)
three million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 3,000,000) before March 31, 
1994;
     (ii)
five million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 5,000,000) before March 31, 
1995;
    (iii)
seven million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 7,000,000) before March 31, 
1996; and
     (iv)
ten million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 10,000,000) before March 31, 
1997.
(c)
It is understood that the amount of each such tranche is based on the 
planned implementation schedule for the Project and may, after consultation between 
Norway and the Association, be adjusted to reflect actual progress made in Project 
implementation.
(d)
The funds in the Trust Account shall be freely exchangeable by the 
Association with other currencies as may facilitate their administration.
Section 2.02. The Association shall disburse from the Trust Account such amounts 
as from time to time shall be needed to meet the reasonable costs of goods and 
services financed or to be financed pursuant to Section 1.01 of this Agreement. Such 
disbursement shall be effected on the basis of withdrawal applications for eligible 
expenditures submitted by Mali to the Association in accordance with the Association's 
normal procedures for withdrawal of proceeds of credits made by the Association.
Section 2.03. In order to assist in the defrayment of the costs of 
administration and other expenses incurred by the Association under this Agreement, 
the Association may invest and reinvest the funds in the Trust Account pending their 
disbursement to Mali, and may retain for its own account the income from any such 
investment or reinvestment in an amount equal to two percent (2%) of the amounts 
deposited by Norway in the Trust Account under this Agreement. The balance of the 
income from any such investment shall be credited to a separate account and may be 
used for such purposes as the Association and Norway may agree. The Association will 
Page  3
exercise the same care in investing the funds in the Trust Account as it does for its 
own account.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. (a) The Association shall: (i) maintain separate records and 
accounts in respect of the funds in the Trust Account disbursed by the Association 
pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement; and (ii) promptly after the end of each 
fiscal year, furnish to Norway a statement of account on such records and accounts.
(b)
Promptly after all funds made available under this Agreement have been 
disbursed from the Trust Account or upon termination of this Agreement, whichever is 
the earlier, the Association shall cause such accounts and records to be audited and 
certified by the Association's external auditors and shall furnish the report of such 
audit by said auditors to Norway.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. Norway and the Association shall consult from time to time at each 
other's request on all matters arising out of this Agreement.
Section 4.02. The Association shall keep Norway informed of the progress made in 
the implementation of the Project. To such purpose, the Association shall furnish to 
Norway all relevant progress performance and assessment reports relating to the 
Project.
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written and, subject to the provisions of this Article, shall continue in effect until 
all funds made available under this Agreement have been disbursed from the Trust 
Account to Mali.
Section 5.02. If at any time it appears to either party that the purposes of 
this Agreement can no longer effectively or appropriately be carried out, the 
Agreement may be terminated at the initiative of such party by a ninety (90) days 
notice in writing.
Section 5.03. Upon termination of this Agreement, unless the parties agree on 
another course of action, any agreement or portion thereof entered into by the 
Association, as Administrator on behalf of Norway, shall be transferred to Norway and 
any funds or other property of Norway held hereunder by the Association shall be 
returned to Norway, and the Association's administration shall be considered 
terminated.
Section 5.04. Promptly after all funds made available under this Agreement have 
been disbursed from the Trust Account or upon termination of this Agreement, whichever 
is the earlier, the Association shall furnish to Norway a final report and a financial 
statement on the Trust Account, together with an opinion of the Association's external 
auditors on such statement.
ARTICLE VI
Section 6.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written agreement of the 
parties hereto.
Section 6.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or 
telex to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such party shall 
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are:
For Norway:
The Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs
P.O. Box 8114, Oslo Dep.
0032 Oslo 1
Norway
Page  4
Cable address: 
Telex:
NORAD-N
76548 NORAD-N
Oslo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS 197688 
(TRT)
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI)
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized thereto, have signed this 
Agreement.
ROYAL MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
  OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
By /s/ Kjell Halvorsen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Koji Kashiwaya
Acting Vice President
Cofinancing and Financial Advisory Services
