Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2370 MLI
              (Natural Resources Management Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF MALI
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 15, 1992
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2370 MLI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 1992, between the REPUBLIC OF MALI
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the German
Technical Cooperation Agency (GTZ) a grant (the GTZ Grant) in an
amount of SDR 900,000 to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the GTZ Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and GTZ;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of
Norway a grant (the Norwegian Grant) in an amount of SDR 3,750,000
Page  2
to assist in the financing of the Project on terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (the Norway Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Government of Norway; and
      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) a grant (the UNDP Grant) in an amount
of SDR 1,125,000 to assist in the financing of the Project on terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the UNDP Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and UNDP;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the Special Accounts A and B
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and "Second
Generation Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "CFAFranc" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (c)   "MAEE" means Ministcre de l'Agriculture de l'Elevage et
de l'Environnement;
      (d)   "CIMU" means Central Implementation and Monitoring Unit,
established by the proposed project;
      (e)   "CRD" means Comite Regional de Developpement;
      (f)   "CLD" means Comite Local de Developpement;
      (g)   "TST" means Technical Support Teams;
      (h)   "PNCC" means Project National Coordinating Committee;
      (i)   "Bank" means the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development;
      (j)   "PPF" means Project Preparation Facility means the
project preparation advance granted by the Association to the
Borrower according to an exchange of letters dated May 27, 1992,
June 24, 1992, between the Borrower and the Association; and
      (k)   "Agricultural Services Project" means the Project funded
by the Association under Credit No. 2235 MLI.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 15,000,000).
Page  3
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF two special deposit accounts in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part I. A of the
Project, open and maintain in CFAF up to three second generation
accounts in one or more commercial banks acceptable to the
Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
(including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment), one in the name of each of the Project's Regional
Coordinators of the three regions covered by the Project. The second
generation accounts are replenished by the Special Account A.
      (d)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be canceled.
      (e)   Deposits into, and payments out of, two Special Accounts
and the Second Generation Accounts shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Page  4
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing September 1, 2002 and ending March 1, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1,
2012 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MAEE
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and technical practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, for the purpose of carrying
out the Project, employ and maintain staff with qualifications,
experience, terms and conditions of employment, all satisfactory to
the Association.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) establish and maintain
for the duration of the Project the Project National Coordinating
Committee (PNCC) with composition and functions acceptable to the
Association; (b) hire, not later than September 30, 1992, a
consultant with terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to
Page  5
the Association, to set up the Project's computerized management and
accounting system and prepare an accounting procedures manual and
train projects accountants; and (c) cause the Project Director to
convene not later than December 31 of each year, a Project
implementation review meeting with the Association, other co-
financiers and regional and local authorities to review and approve
recommendations of PNCC.
      Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower and the Association shall not later than
December 31, 1995, conduct a mid-term Project implementation review
to: (i) monitor progress of Project implementation; (ii) assess the
experience of land tenure arrangements, aiming at setting up an
action plan to be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association, including measures to replace, modify or implement the
existing land tenure framework; (iii) evaluate the support given to
the Environmental Monitoring Facility at the national level, parti-
cularly concerning the elaboration of the environmental Information
System to be prepared; (iv) assess the Baoule National Park mana-
ment plan; and (v) evaluate the implementation of training program.
      (b)   Not later than six weeks prior to such review, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its review and com-
ments a report in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, including: (i) an evaluation of progress achieved in
Project implementation by the Borrower in general, and by its
central, regional and local agencies, in particular; and (ii) a
draft action program for the completion of the Project.
      (c)   Promptly after completing the mid-term review, carry out
recommendations of the said review as agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Accounts and each Second Generation
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association a detailed
procurement plan with timetables, satisfactory to the Association;
      (b)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association bidding
documents for subcontracting the implementation of Part I.D (a) of
the Project, satisfactory to the Association;
      (c)   contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the
Association, have been concluded between the CIMU and the
directorate of the Agricultural Services Project on the coordination
of the two projects;
      (d)   the Borrower has appointed an auditing firm, acceptable
to the Association, to audit the Project's accounts;
      (e)   an operation monitoring system, satisfactory to the
Association, has been established for the Project;
      (f)   the accounting and financial management system under
Part I of the Project, satisfactory to the Association, has been put
in place;
      (g)   a Manuel de Procedures, satisfactory to the Association,
has been adopted for the preparation, the negotiation and the
implementation of villages natural resources management plans,
including the necessary actions for land-tenure arrangements for
villages concerned by the Project, including: (i) assessment of
land-tenure rights of local population; and (ii) negotiations with
the local authorities in order to implement land-tenure arrangements
involving local communities participation;
      (h)   a staffing plan for the Project, satisfactory to the
Association, and a short list for the key position, have been
submitted to the Association;
      (i)   the Borrower has furnished a proof, satisfactory to the
Association, establishing that the land-tenure arrangements
envisaged under the Project may be implemented under legislative and
regulatory framework in force in the Borrower's territory; and
Page  7
      (j)   audits reports required under Development Credit
Agreements between the Association and the Borrower for Mopti Area
Development Project (Credit No. 1595 MLI), Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit (Credit No. 2163 MLI) and Office du Niger
Consolidation Project (Credit No. 1906 MLI), respectively, has been
provided to the Association.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
           Representativeasá of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Economy and Finance
            Bamako, Mali
                                          Telex:
                                            972559
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF MALI
                  By /s/ Mohamed A. Toure
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  8
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated          % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:                               100%
     (a) for Part I.A          6,600,000
         of the
         Project
     (b) for Part I.B            365,000
         of the
         Project
(2)  Vehicles, equip-                           100%
     ment, materials:
     (a) Part I of the         2,100,000
         Project
     (b) Part II of the           35,000
         Project
(3)  Aerial photo-               230,000        100%
     graphs, satellite
     imagery
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated          % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4)  Consultants'                               100%
     services:
     (a) Part I of the           580,000
         Project
     (b) Part II of the          275,000
         Project
(5)  Training                  1,200,000        100%
(6)  Operating costs:                           100%
     (a) Part I of the         1,900,000
         Project
     (b) Part II of the           95,000
         Project
(7)  Refunding of Project        150,000        Amount due pur-
     Preparation Advance                        suant to Section
                                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(8)  Unallocated               1,470,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                15,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs"
means expenditures incremental to the Project for items such as:
Page  9
office supplies, building rehabilitation and maintenance costs,
vehicle repairs and maintenance costs, expenses for travel related
to the Project and salaries for local contractual staff.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) expenses
incurred under Category (1) (b) in the table set forth in paragraph
1 of this Schedule, until new Baoule National Natural Park's
boundaries satisfactory to the Association have been adopted by the
Borrower; and (c) expenses incurred under Categories 2(b), 3, 4 (b)
and 6(b) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule,
until the Borrower has (i) established a national structure for the
planning, the follow up and the evaluation of actions to control
desertification and to manage natural resources, with autonomy and
authority satisfactory to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association an organization chart and a work program for the setting
up of an environment information system, satisfactory to the
Association; and (iii) set up an administrative and financial unit
for the implementation of Part II of the Project, satisfactory to
the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (i) to build up the
capacity of the local communities to manage their own natural
resources, and build institutional capacity within the MAEE to
provide practical advice to villagers on the management of their
resources; and (ii) to build an environmental monitoring capacity
for coordinating and guiding the very diverse initiatives under way
throughout Mali, and to feed into a national natural resources
management strategy the lessons of these field experiences.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part I:     Village Natural Resource Management Plans
I.A:  Identification, design implementation and monitoring of
village natural resource management plans involving about 150
villages within three administrative regions of Mali and distributed
among representative agro-ecological zones of the country. Such
natural resource management plans will include, two types of
investments at the village level, the exact location of their
investments, their kind, possible exception and adjustments and
extension to be decided by: (i) representatives of subject village;
(ii) local authorities; and (iii) the proper field staff;
      (a)   Investments in natural resource management designated to
stop the degradation of soil, water and natural vegetation, with no
immediate impact on production, including:
            (i)   water harvesting techniques, including earth,
                  stone and vegetation contour bunds over about
                  10,000 ha, and deepening of about 90 natural
                  ponds;
           (ii)   soil erosion control, including different
                  watershed correction techniques (stones,
                  plantings) over about 1,500 ha, and planting of
                  7,500 ha of watershed areas threatened by
                  erosion;
          (iii)   soil fertility rehabilitation and dune control,
                  with agroforestry plantations over 1,500 ha and
                  anchoring of about 600 ha of dunes using
                  mechanical means and plantings; and
           (iv)   protection and rehabilitation of natural
Page  10
                  vegetation through the establishment of about
                  1,500 km of firebreaks, about 3,500 ha of forest
                  plantations, and about 3,200 km of paddock
                  delimitation through boundary markers to
                  facilitate proper grazing practices;
                  establishment of 90 village tree nurseries.
      (b)   Social infrastructure and productive investments,
including: the construction of 12 boreholes, 10 wells and 10 earth-
dams; the improvement of rural roads totalling about 60 km; the
construction of 12 village grain storage facilities; and the
acquisition of about 375 carts for animal traction, 60 grain mills
and 22 oil extraction machines.
I.B:  Baoule National Park
      Assistance to the conservation of the Baoule National Park
through:
      (a)   the assessment of the current park's boundaries and
adoption of demarcation, leaving the village settlements out of the
park area;
      (b)   the construction of the physical delimitation of the new
park's boundaries, the rehabilitation of internal trials and the
repair of some damaged buildings, and the establishment of corridors
for livestock movement; and
      (c)   the design and the implementation of a natural resource
management plan involving ten villages within the Baoule National
Park.
I.C:  Institutional Support
      Institutional support to the central and local government
authorities for setting up, implementing and monitoring the village
natural resource management plans, including:
      (a)   recruitment of (i) twenty four extension agents, to
provide adequate extension services to women; (ii) three accountants
to manage the Project's regional second generation accounts; (iii)
five technical support teams, one based in Kayes, one in Diema, one
in Koulikoro, one in Kolokani, one in Mopti, and five secretaries to
be located in the offices of the Project's local coordinators in the
above mentioned cities; each of the technical support teams will
include one sociologist, one ecologist and one administrator; and
(iv) four staff members of the CIMU;
      (b)   acquisition of (i) five four-wheel drive vehicles for
the technical support teams; (ii) 13 medium-sized vehicles for
Region and district coordinators; (iii) 7 vehicles for CIMU; and
(iv) 102 small 125-cc motocycles for extension agents and their
coordinators; and
      (c)   administrative and logistic support, including the
rehabilitation of existing offices, and office equipment.
I.D:  Skills Development and Public Awareness
      Training of villagers, technical and administrative local and
central government staff and public information and awareness
program on the Borrower's natural resource management strategy and
action plan, including:
      (a)   design, planning and supervision of custom training
sessions;
      (b)   implementation of custom training sessions including
hiring of trainers and services such as lodging and transportation;
and
      (c)   public information and awareness campaigns aimed at the
Page  11
public at large on the issues of natural resource management and
environmental protection.
I.E.: Technical Assistance and Research
      (a)   Technical expertise in areas of land tenure,
environmental data processing; women participation, agriculture,
forestry and livestock, computerized management of the Project's
financial management, and preparation of the Project's mid-term
review and external audits.
      (b)   Applied research required for Project implementation as
indicated in annual work plans.
Part II:
      Support to the unit in charge of planning, and monitoring and
evaluation and desertification control and management of natural
resources, to be established under MAEE.
                           *     *     *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more each.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Mali may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works for buildings restoration, boundary delimitation
and land and water conservation works up to an aggregate amount of
US$5.7 million may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertized locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association; land and water con-
servation works under Category (1) (a) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $4.5 million, may be executed
by the village communities on the basis of standard unit costs,
under specific arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
2.    In cases where LCB procurement procedures under the preceding
paragraph 1, did not result in any bid, civil works estimated to
cost less than $30,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $300,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
Page  12
3.    Goods and equipment estimated to cost less than $100,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$1,900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive biding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Goods and equipment estimated to cost less than $30,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$1,200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers, eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
5.    Up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$100,000, since only one company produces either SPOT or LANDSAT
imagery, satellite imagery may be procured through sole source
procurement procedures.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
       (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Part E:     Pre-shipment Inspection
      All goods imported under the Project shall be subject to
preshipment inspection for price, quantity and quality verification
by a suitably qualified and experienced pre-shipment inspection
firm; provided, however, that no price verification shall be
conducted in respect of goods to which Part A of this Section
applies.
Page  13
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    At Village Level. Each village involved in project activities
shall establish one natural resource management village group
(Village Group) which will be the primary channel of communication
with the Project. The Village Group will be consulted by Project
staff on any action to be carried out and involved in any decisions
to be made concerning the village. The Village Group will include
sub-sectoral groups representing farmers, herders, forest users and
women.
2.    At District and Region Levels. In the Regions and Districts,
Project implementation will be supervised by three Regional
Coordinators and ten District Coordinators, respectively.
      (a)   Regional Coordinators will: (i) manage the regional
Project's Second Generation Accounts with the assistance of an
accountant, (ii) coordinate the Project's work plan in the Region
with the activities carried out under the CRD, and (iii) ensure full
understanding and support of Project's activities by regional
administrative authorities, and that Project's activities are
coherent with Regional Development Plans.
      (b)   District coordinators will: (i) follow-up and support
progress achieved by TSTs in implementing village natural resources
management plans, (ii) ensure effective coordination of the Project
with the Agricultural Services Project, and (iii) facilitate
communication between Project's staff and members of local
authorities.
3.    At National Level. The Project's Central Implementing and
Monitoring Unit (CIMU) will be headed by the Project Director who
will report directly to the MAEE. CIMU will carry out the overall
project implementation, including financial management, procurement
and reporting. The Director of CIMU will be assisted by an
administrative and financial officer, a data processing officer, an
environment expert, a training officer and a monitoring expert.
4.    Part B of the Project will be implemented in relation with the
existing Baoule National Park Authority (OPNBB) of the National
Forestry Directorate.
5.    The overall coordination of project activities would be the
responsibility of Project National Coordinating Committee (PNCC)
which would be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and meet at
least twice a year. It would include representatives from the MAEE's
technical departments and other ministries involved in the
implementation of the Project. The PNCC will be in charge of the
coordination and follow up of the implementation of the Project's
activities, its functions will be defined by an arrete of MAEE,
satisfactory to the Association. PNCC will ensure full cooperation
with all institutions involved in the implementation of the Project.
6.    Part II of the Project will be implemented by environmental
monitoring team of three experts under MAEE.  This team will provide
data for monitoring of environment, desertification control
projects, on-going natural resources management and progress
achieved in decentralization and land tenure texts.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means for the Special
Account A,  Categories (1), (2)(a), (4)(a), (5) and (6)(a) and for
the Special Account B Categories 2(b), 3, 4(b) and 6(b) set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  14
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to CFAF 300,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account A and an amount
equivalent to CFAF 35,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account B, pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
(a) for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule; and (b) in accordance with paragraph 7 of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of Special Accounts, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into Special Accounts at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  Special Accounts such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of Special Accounts for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special Accounts,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
Page  15
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from Credit Accounts of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall bemade only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in Special
Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of Special Accounts: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into Special Accounts
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
Special Accounts.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
7.    (a)   The Borrower shall withdraw from the Special Account A
and deposit into each second generation account funds to assist the
beneficiary of such account to pay for goods and services under the
Project. Such withdrawals and deposits shall be in amounts
sufficient to assist each beneficiary in the manner contemplated in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to pay for such goods and services in
due course, provided that, at no time shall the Borrower cause the
amount held in any second generation account to exceed the
equivalent of $100,000.
      (b)   Payments out of second generation accounts shall only be
made for eligible expenditures in respect of Category (1) and (6)(a)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment.
      (c)   Any withdrawal from any second generation account must
be justified to the Borrower by the same documentation and other
evidence regarding eligible expenditures provided for under
paragraph 3 of this Schedule.
      (d)   If the Association or the Borrower shall have determined
at any time that any amount outstanding in any second generation
accounts will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the beneficiary of such second generation account
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank or the Borrower, refund to
the Special Account A such outstanding amount.
Page  16
