Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repuwt NO. 8674
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COSTA RICA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2019-CR)
MAY 25, 1990
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBRKVIATIONS
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
LIT         Limited International Tendering
PEMEX       Petr6leos Mexicanos
PCIAC       Petro-Canada International Assistance Corporation
RECOPE      Refinadora Costarricense de Petr6leo, S.A.
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
USAID       United States Agency for International Development



ToA  OMCIAL UtSE ONLY
TIH WORtLD SANK
Washugton. DC 20433
U.S A
Olq (d v"mCaSIu
May 25, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Costa Rica
Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Proiect (Loan 2019-CR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Costa Rica - Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project
(Loan 2019-CR)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower.  No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
The docunent ha a retrcd ditbuon and may be usd by _ecputs only  the peforanme
of ftffoflcbddtie In conunu may nm hernnbe ducked wkbmWidun Wa autbnriu0nuon.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
COSTA RICA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan 2019-CR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface        .       ..................................................                              i
Evaluation Summary.                                          ....................                     ii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity ..............-.                                                               1
Background         ...........................................                                  1
Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives             .................................                             2
Project  Description            ................................                             2
Project  Design  and Organization                 ......................                        3
Project Implementation
Loan  Effectiveness  and Project  Start-up                           ............            4
Implementation  Schedule              ............................                          4
Procurement          ........................................                                5
Project  Costs          ......................................                               5
Disbursements           ...............................I......                               6
Loan Allocation            ...........   I         ........................                  6
Project Results
Project  Objectives            .................................                             6
Physical  Results           ...................................                              6
Impact  of Project           ..................................                              7
Bank  Performance           .....................................                               7
Borrower's  Performance              ...............................                            8
Project  Relationship             .......  I                 .........................          8
Consulting  Services            ..................................                              8
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipi-ots only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othe'wise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page No.
PART II - ENGLISH TRANSLATION OF BORROWER'S COMMENTS                                                         9
Bank's Remarks concerning the Borrower's Comments                                                       26
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Project  Timetable              ....................................                                    29
Loan Disbursements .....................                                                                29
Project Implementation .....................                                                           30
Project Costs and Financing
Project  Costs            ......................................                                    30
Project  Financing              ......  I            ...........................                    31
Project Results
Direct  Benefits             ....................................                                   32
Economic  Impact             ....................................                                   32
Financial  Impact              ...................................                                  32
Studies         ............              ................................                          33
Status of Covenants .................                                                                   34
Wve of Bank Resources
Staff  Inputs           .......................................                                     35
Missions           ..........................................                                        35



- i -
PROJECT CVMPLETION REPORT
COSTA RICA
P TROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2019-CR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Petroleum
Sector Technical Assistance Project in Costa Rica, for which Loan 2019-CR
in the amount of US$3 million was approved on August 7, 1981. The loan was
closed on December 31, 1987, three years behind schedule. An outstanding
balance of US$3,898 was then cancelled and the last disbursement was on
July 28, 1988.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Technical
Division, Technical Department, Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I, Comments on Part II and
Part III). On January 30, 1990, the Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and III
with the request to prepare Part II by end of March, 1990. The Bank did
not get Part II but received valuable and comprehensive comments on Parts I
and III. An unofficial translation into English of these comments is
included as Part II with the Bank's remarks on these comments.
Preparation of this PCR was started in August, 1989 and is based,
inter alia, on the President's Report, the Loan and Project Agreements,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and
internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COSTA RICA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2019-CR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Ob3ectives
The fundamental objective of the Petroleum Technical Assistance
Project was to assist the Government of Costa Rica in its efforts to assess
and develop the country's petroleum potential, prepare specialized energy
sector studies, and evaluate prospective options in the refinery subsector.
The project would complement ongoing exploration efforts undertaken by the
Government with technical assistance from Petr6leos Mexicanos (PEMEX) and
the Mexican Government. This effort aimed at laying out the ground to
attract private oil companies to come and search for hydrocarbons.
Implementation Kxperience
Loan effectiveness and project start up took much more time than
forecasted. It took 15 months for the loan to become effective due to
lengthy delays in obtaining congressional approval and more than 4 months
to have the project on stream because of cumbersome procurement procedures,
and lengthy negotiations between RECOPE, individual consultants,
consultancy firms and specialized petroleum service companies to finalize
contracts (para.5 and Tables 1, 2 Part III). Disbursements started only in
November, 1983. Further delays, in part for the same reasons, took place
after implementation started and project completion took 36 months longer
than originally envisioned.
The project design and focus changed in the course of
implementation as a result of two main factors: (i) additional aid in the
form of grants from USAID, UNDP and mostly PetroCanada International
Assistance Corporation (PCIAC); and (ii) new Bank petroleum lending
policies of November, 1984 (para.4.04). As a result, the project was
refocused as a petroleum exploration promotion, in addition to the previous
components of technical assistance to RECOPE and detailed feasibility study
of RECOPE's refinery moderniza,tion (para.4)
Results
The project achieved its objectives by increasing knowledge about
the sedimentary basins of Costa Rica (onshore and offshore), their geology
and stratigraphy, potential source rock and reservoirs, and rock
characteristics. The entire country has been covered by aeromagnetic
surveyp. The highlights related to those results include: the presence of
organic rich Cretaceou,p shale beds which are potential source rocks; in the
Tempisque Basin area, and the existance of reefal, fractured and



- iii -
dolomitized limestones and coastal sands as potential reservoir rocks in
most of the 10 basins (para.v and Tables 4, 5 and 6, Part III). The
project also indicated that Costa Rica's hydrocarbons' potential is of
moderate s17e.
The refinery study helped the Government to have a better
understanding of the domestic demand for petroleum products and the best
options to meet the demand.
RECOPE benefited from the project also. A small exploration unit
was established with local geologists, geophysists, engineers and legal
counsel. This unit was trained on the job and in various seminars. A PC-AT
computer and software packages were acquired to treat information recorded
during drilling of wells and other magnetic and gravimetric data.
The Assembly, until now, has not examined the proposed Hydrocarbon
Law, which was thoroughly prepared by RECOPE with 3ank assistance and
important input. Further delays could turn off the interest expressed by
the international petroleum industry in pursuing petroleum exploration
activities in Costa Rica during the promotional seminars.
Findings and Lessons Learned
The main findings are that: (i) there is petroleum potential in
Costa Rica, although on a moderate scale; and (ii) there is interest on the
part of the international oil industry in searching for oil in the country,
particularly among small and independent operations.
The main lessons learnt from the project are:
(a) project preparation w&s rushed and failed to identify some of the
issues that became apparent during imp,ementation and beyond, such as
alternative plans to ensure continuity in the execution of the
project's recommendations particularly in the field of exploration
promotion, legislation and contract negotiations between RECOPE and
interested oil companies;
(b) the Bank could have reduced the delays during implementation if it had
more insight into the technical assistance agreement between PEMEX and
RECOPE;
(c) the Bank should have been aware that RECOPE lacked the technical
expertise to supervise a major exploration program that involved many
donors. consultants and two major corporations, PEM%X and PCAIC, and
therefore should have included more than one consultant at the start
of the project to give technical support to RECOPE.



COSTA RICA
PETwROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2019-CR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART Is PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity
Name:          Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project
Loan Number:   2019-CR
RVP Unit:      LAC
Country:       Costa Rica
Sectors        Energy
Sub-Sector:    Petroleum
2.       Background
2.01     At the time of project appraisal, all demand for petroleum
products was met through imports of petroleum products and crude oil for
refining. The country's oil import bill had increased from US$71 million
in 1975 to US$125 million, or about 12 percent of the estimated value of
merchandise exports, in 1980. At that time, Costa Rica obtained roughly
80 percent of its total oil imports from Mexico and Venezuela.
2.02     While no crude oil for commercial production purposes had been
found in Costa Rica, the existence of significant petroleum and natural gas
shows in some wells and at surface seeps, suggested that there was the
possibility of finding hydrocarbon resources in the country. It was
expected, however that the petroleum potential would be twdest, because
geological conditions in Costa Rica are complex and much of the land area
is covered by volcanic rocks. Nevertheless, a complete and up-to-date
evaluation of the petroleum potential was felt to be warranted, because the
increases in the price of crude oil had made the return on investment in
even small hydrocarbon discoveries very attractive. Exploration work to
evaluate Costa Rica's petroleum potential had begun with the assistance of
Petr6leos Mexicanos (PEMEX).
2.03     Much of the land area of Costa Rica is covered by recent lava
flows and volcanic ash. Although this makes exploration relatively
difficult and increases the risk; however, source rocks for hydrocarbon
generation are known to exist since oil shows have been reported from
seepages and wells. Onshore, the Lim6n Province is Costa Rica's most
prospective area. The sedimentary section in the Lim6n basin is considered
thick enough to have generated oil, which could have migrated into
structural traps, but which may be difficult to detect. Offshore, the
Caribbean coast appears to have more attractive prospects than the Pacific,
although the latter is virtually unexplored so far.



- 2 -
2.04     Petroleum exploration began in Costa Rica in the 1920's, with
90 percent of the onshore exploration effort since that time concentrated
in the region between the Lim6n Peninsula and the ftnamd border. Sinclair,
Union and Gulf Oil companies undertook geological studies and seismic work,
drilling approximately 21 wildcat wells and some 31 coreholes between
1920-63. Two wells, Cocoles 1 and 2, produced some oil shows but not in
commercial quantities. Offshore exploration was done by Elf-Aquitaine
(ELF) off the Caribbean coast between Port Lim6n and the Nicaraguan border.
One well, Moin-l, was drilled by ELF in 1975 but was abandoned at 2087 m,
and the concession relinquished. According to ELF, the rocks penetrated by
Moin-1 had a good content of organic matter, but were geochemically
immature, that is, the strata probably were not adequate to generate crude
oil.
2.05     No private foreign companies were operating in Costa Rica at the
time of appraisal and the Government had not yet defined a long-term
strategy to accelerate exploration, including the roles to be played by
public and private institutions.
2.06     Refinadora Costarricense de Petr6leo, S.A. (RECOPE), wholly owned
by the Government, is the lead institution in the petroleum sector. It was
founded in 1962 and has a seven-member Board of Directors headed by a full-
time President. In 1978, RECOPE's total assets were US$58 million
equivalent, with net sales of US$66 million equivalent. Profits were
US$3.3 million equivalent in 1978. RECOPE, in addition to its refining
responsibilities, is responsible for the storage, transport and
distribution of refined products. Retailing is in the hand of private
companies. In 1980, RECOPE was also made responsible for petroleum
exploration with grant funds provided by the Government. An Exploration
Departm-3nt was established with four main operating divisions -- geology,
geophysics, drilling and specialized studies -- with 17 professional staff.
2.07     The Government of Costa Rica had placed high priority on the
identification and development of indigenous energy resources in order to
reduce the country's dependence on imported crude oil and petroleum
products. Given the relative scarcity of technical expertise and financial
resources in the country, it sought foreign assistance for this purpose.
3.       Proiect Objectives and Description
3.01     Proiect Objectives:  The Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance
Project objectives were to assist the Government's efforts to assess and
develop Costa Rica's petroleum resource potential, analyze future options
in the energy sector through specialized energy sector studies, and
evaluate prospective options in the refinery subsector.
3.02     Project Description:  The project consisted initially of four main
components:
(a) Part A: Survey Work
(1) An Airborne magnetometer survey of about 15,000 line-kilometers
of the Pacific and Caribbean litoral and continental shelf areas
and areas of the northern provinces; and



- 3 -
(2)  A marine seismic survey off the Caribbean coast consisting of
acquisition of new data, reprocessing of existing data and
shooting of new seismic lines.
(b) Part Bs Exploration Studies and Training tor RECOukS
(1) Studies for the purpose of analyzing geological data from the
Borrower's petroleum exploration program;
(2) Training of selected management and professional staff of RECOPE
in petroleum exploration techniques; and
(3)  Establishmsnt of a technical library and acquisition of
specialized drafting and other equipment for exploration
purposes.
(c) Part C: Refinery Study
(1) A preliminary study of the Borrower's refinery sector with an
analysis of alternative demand projections for refined products
based on the findings of the study under Part D (1) of the
project, and an evaluation of alternative approaches for meeting
such demand;
(2) Based on the conclusions of the study under Part C (1) of the
Project, to conduct a full feasibility study of refinery
expansion, but only if technically and economically justified.
(d) Part D: Planning of and Training for Energy Developmen
(1) A study analyzing projected energy supply and demand, and
detailing a national energy plan evaluating priorities and
investment requirements;
(2) A design of a data management system for energy supply and
demand;
(3) A study of the potential for development of renewable energy
resources and design of a pilot testing program for new
technologies;
(4) Training of selected staff of the Borrower's Executive
Secretariat for Energy Sector Planning to strengthen the
Borrower's capabilities in the areas of energy planning and
renewable energy development.
3.03     In addition to financing the above items, the Bank advised RECOPE
in key legislation aspects concerning a Hydrocarbon Law to be presented to
the Assembly, and in the drafting of petroleum contracts to be used as a
basis for negotiations with oil companic    It also gave continuous
technical advise to RECOPE on its exploration program with PEMEX.
4.       Project Design and Organization
4.01     The project was designed to complement arnd expand the exploration
program and work carried out by RECOPE with PEMEX assistance. The project



design was appropriate and timely in that respect. It would ensure that a
satisfactory and complete evaluation of the country's petroleum potential
be prepared, thus providing Costa Rica with a more realistic and
comprehensive understanding of a significant element for its energy
development planning. It was thought that without the Bank's support for
the petroleum exploration program, the efforts of the Government would have
been more limited in scope.
4.02     The project was initially conceived as a technical assistance
project and not as a petroleum exploration promotional effort. With this
design concept, the project organization was based on periodic and close
consultations between RECOPE and the Bank, so as to give technical support
to RECOPE on its exploration program with PEM4EX, and to articulate,
coordinate and integrate, if possible, the work under the Bank project with
that agreed between RECOPE and PEMEX. For this reason, the Bank was
flexible from an organization and implementation point of view, and even in
the definition of the TOR to be included in Part B of the project.
4.03     However, the project's design and focus was changed in the course
of implementation because of three main reasons: (a) the changes in the
Bank petroleum lending policies, which emphasized a petroleum exploration
promotion concept in order to attract private risk capital (Guidelines for
Petroleum Lending OMS 3.82) dated November, 1984; (b) new and substantial
support to RECOPE's exploration effort, which had increased with the
support of various donors including PetroCanada International Assistance
Corporation (PCIAC); and (c) new aid from USAID and UNDP which altered one
component of the Bank project. The changes of focus and work program are
explained in paras. 5.02e, 5.06 and 6.02.
4.04     With new financial aid from USAID and UNDP, the elements of the
project initially included in Part D were dropped from the Bank project and
carried out by these two institutions. As a result, the Bank included new
studies, additional field work (seismic and core drilling) in Part D and
the preparation of an exploration promotion report (para.5.06 and Table SD,
Part III). The Bank and the Borrower signed two new amendments to the
Project Agreement as a result of these modifications.
5.       Project Implementation
5.01     Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-Up:  Although Loan 2019-CR
was approved by the Board on June 1st, 1981, it was signed only on
August 7, 1981. The loan became effective only on February 2, 1983,
instead of November 5, 1981; a delay of about 15 months. The main reason
for this delay was the need to obtain the approval of the loan by the
Assembly of Costa Rica.
5.02     Implementation Schedule:  Although, the project was originally
scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1984, it was necessary to extend
the original Closing Date three times, to December 31, 1987. The only
activities that were pending at the Closing Date were three promotional
seminars to attract foreign oil companies which were organized in Calgary
(Canada), London (England) and Houston (U.S.A.) during the period
June 21-July 16, 1988. The main reasons for the delays were:



- 5 -
(a) delays in hiring of senior exploration and other specialists, because
of lack of availability of local funds, acute foreign exchange
shortage and complex contracting procedures, and very cautious
attitude by RECOPE management;
(b) changes in the seismic survey program, which called for an increase in
marine survey and decrease in aeromagnetic survey, because of USAID's
changes in its exploration work, which included initially offshore
work and IDB's decision not to include seismic in its project with
RECOPE;
(c)  drilling difficulties encountered by PEMEX in well San Jose 1 caused
by logistic and other management problems, which delayed progress on
geological evaluations because of the non-availability of data. This
caused a delay of more than one year;
(d)  delays by a consultant to interpret aeromagnetic data and submit its
final report, which was considered totally unsatisfactory by RECOPE in
its original draft;
(e) refocus of project in June, 1985 from a technical assistance project
to help RECOPE in the implementation of its exploration program to a
petroleum exploration promotion project along the new November, 1984
Bank's lending policy. This change of focus resulted in more delays
because of the new work included in RECOPE exploration program, which
had to be integrated to the initial program. Furthermore, additional
work had to be carried out to prepare a promotion package to be
presented to the international oil industry;
(f) retrieval of old exploration information from Union Oil Company which
was essential for the program and which took more than two years;
(g) delays in formation of project implementation unit and appointment of
a project manager; and
(h) slow preparation and start-up in procurement action.
What the Bank could have done to avoid the above deficiencies and
delays is discussed under lessons learned by the Bank, in para.7.
5.03     Procurement:  Important delays were caused because of rigid
procureaent procedures and intense scrutiny on the part of the Government
on RECOPE's expenditures and accounts. An investigation of RECOPE's
accounts, carried out by the Comptroller's Office in 1983, to clarify
certain expenditures, made RECOPE's officials extremely cautious and forced
them to follow to the letter contracting procedures for services, works and
goods. This resulted in very lengthy bidding periods and consequently
caused important delays.
5.04     Project Costs:  The estimated cost of the Petroleum Sector
Technical Assistance Project at appraisal was US$3 million, including
contingencies of US$800.000. RECOPE failed ta provide adequate information
on project costs, hence the estimate of the final cost of the foreign part
is based on loan disbursements which amounted to US$2,996,102.60 million,
as shown in Table 4A in Part III. However, because of the changes in



project design that took place during implementation (para. 4.03), these
figures are not strictly comparable. The local cost is not available.
S.05     Disbursementst  The estimated and actual disbureements of Loan
2019-CR are given in Table 2A in Part III. The disbursements were delayed
due to delays in effectiveness (15 months) and implementation of the
project. The original Closing Date was December 31, 1984; but the loan was
closed only on December 31, 1987. Disbursement against commitments were
made until July, 1988 and an outstanding balance of US$3,898.00 was then
cancelled.
5.06     Loan Allocation:  The original and revised allocation and actual
disbursements for Loan 2019-CR are shown in Table 2B, Part III. The
original allocations were revised as a result of two amendments to the Loan
Agreement in January, 1984 and July, 1985. These allocations reflect
changes in the focus of the project, as well as changes resulting from
financing of components of the project obtained by RECOPE from other
sources such as UNDP, PCIAC and USAID. In addition, the Bank made an
exception to its standard policy whereby savings are cancelled, but for
this project, these savings (US$650,000) were allocated to additional work
(para.6.02). Given the samll amount of the loan, and the flexible nature
of its design this seems a justified decision particularly since the
additional works included had the potential for significant benefits to the
economy.
5.07     The Borrower did not prepare a PCR but made comprehensive and
useful comments on Parts I and III prepared by the Bank. In addition, the
Borrower did not furnish to the Bank breakdown cost data about local costs
in order to establish the total project cost. Bank supervision missions
seem not to have attached much importance to this; and concentrated more on
the technical aspects of the project. Audited reports were not presented in
a timely manner or not at all, and the Bank missions failed to attach much
significance to this issue.
6.       Project Results
6.01     Project Objectives:  Overall, the project was successful in
meeting all of its stated objectives of evaluating Costa Rica's petroleum
potential, in giving technical support to both the Government and RECOPE in
addressing key issues in the refining sector helping the Government in
drawing a new Hydrocarbon Law and exploration contracts and establishing an
exploration unit within RECOPE staffed entirely by Costa Ricans. However,
the oil companies that were interested to explore in Costa Rica during the
promotional seminars were concerned because of the inability of the
Government to have the Assembly pass a Hydrocarbon Law (para.7.01(c)).
6.02     Physical Results:  All the work was completed.  The physical
targets for the studies, the airborne magnetometrical seismic surveys and
the drilling in the fields were achieved substantially as planned. These
results are shown in Table 3 (Project Implementation) in Part II. Savings
of about 20Z were achieved because of lower than anticipated cost of
consultants, participation through a cost/profit sharing agreement made
with contractors and cautious step-by-step approach in carrying out
additional studies. The savings were used to respond to a special request
from the Government of Costa Rica dated June 14, 1985 to allocate these
savings to corehole drilling and prepare a study to provide external
interest in oil exploration in the country.



-  7  -
6.03     Impact of Projects  The project helped the Government to know
better the country's potential and be realistic about it in its planning
and in its future negotiations with oil companies. It helped give
confidence to RECOPE technicians in performing complex technical jobs. It
did at least attract one small independent oil company to propose a firm
exploration contract to RECOPE. The faith of this contract is not known.
Other companies have been invited lately by the Government to submit
exploratory proposals. The results of this effort is not known yet but
does not seem to be too encouraging partly because of the lack of a
Hydrocarbon Law.
7.       Bank Performance
7.01     Through the Petroleum Technical Assistance Project, the Bank made
a positive contribution to the Government of Costa Rica and to RECOPE's
knowledge about the country petroleum potential, and helped to develop
legislation and contractual arrangements required to attract foreign oil
companies to explore in Costa Rica. Bank performance has been
satisfactory. However in retrospect, the following lessons may be learnt
from the experience of the project:
(a) considering the complex San Jose Agreement, signed between Mexico and
Costa Rica and the coereration with PEMEX that followed, the Bank
could have devoted more! time to project preparation in order to
identify all the issues involved;
(b) the Bank should have realized that Costa Rica's financial difficulties
would affect project implementation and could have avoided some of the
delays that occurred because of this by exploring supplementary
financing options;
(c) the Bank should have focused its economic dialogue more on the main
objectives and implications of the Hydrocarbon Law as the preparation
of this work was progressing and prior to the formal introduction of
this law to the Assembly to help in its processing. The issue of the
Petroleum Law should have beer, addressed earlier in the life cycle of
the project in more intense consultation with the Borrower, even prior
to the implementation of the project whose ultimate success was
dependent on the passage of new legislation;
(d) the Bank should have been aware that RECOPE lacked the experience and
technical ability to supervise a major exploration program that
involved PEMEX, consultants, many donors and could have acted
accordingly by reinforcing early the technical capability of RECOPE
thus avoiding delays and other supervision problems;
(e) before negotiations the Bank should have explained at length its
procurement procedures to RECOPE and other Government branches in
order to avoid the delay that occurred in procurement and
disbursements. At the same time, the staff should have studied at
appraisal Costa Rican procurement procedures and prepared a
procurement plan; and
(f) failure to enforce the audit covenants may have delivered an incorrect
message about the importance that the Bank attaches to these.



8.       Borrower's Performance
8.01     Table 6, Part III contains a review of performance of the
Borrower, the Government of Costa Rica, and the executing agency, RECOPE.
Except for the delays in procurement and the lack of experience of RECOPE
in exploration activity, RECOPE's performance was satisfactory. During
project preparation and appraisal, RECOPE provided all the support needed.
However, there were delays in the designation of a project manager.
8.02     The main weakness in the performance of the Borrower was its
inability to push forward to have the Hydrocarbon Law passed by the
Assembly. The Borrower did organize a campaign at the time the draft was
introduced to a special committee of the Assembly. But this campaign did
not help much in moving the draft forward. This may turn off interest of
the few foreign oil companies in exploring in Costa Rica and, in a sense,
defeated the positive results obtained during the petroleum exploration
promotion seminars, carried out under the project (Part III, para.5).
8.03     In our view, the main reasons that should be learnt by the
borrower from the experience from the project are:
(a) to undertake an active and sustained campaign with the local political
parties and Congressmen to inform them progressively and regularly on
the progress of the project, the risky nature of petroleum
exploration, the need to attract foreign oil companies and the key
elements in petroleum legislation and contractual arrangements;
(b) to discuss and plan procurement actions well in advance during project
appraisal.
9.       Project Relationship
9.01     Although at the beginning there was some kind of misunderstanding,
and even negative reactions on the part of RECOPE as to the role that the
Bank could play in implementing this project, and in giving technical
assistance to this company, Bank relationships with Government and RECOPE
on the project improved rapidly and have been good.
9.02     Because of the lack of experience of RECOPE in the field of
exploration, some frictions and misunderstandings developed between RECOPE
and some consultants, but this were minor and did not affect the progress
of the project.
10.      Consulting Services
10.01    Outside the physical work of drilling and conducting seismic and
aeromagnetic surveys, consulting firms and individual experts were used in
the project to carry out the various studies and data processing and
interpretation (Table 5D, Part It). Although the Bank did not directly
oversee the work of all these consultancy firms, the overall opinion placed
their performances as very satisfactory, except for one company which did
perform very badly and two which were considered very unsatisfactory by
RECOPE. The Bank was actively involved in preparing TOR's, reviewing the
work of these consultants and giving timely advise and recommendations to
RECOPE as required.



- 9 -
COSTA RICA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2019-CR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON PARTS I AND III PREPARED BY THE WORLD BANK 1,
(Unofficial Translation from Spanish)
1. PREFACE (Page i)
With respect to the statement in the last paragraph indicating that "the
borrower did not prepare its PCR" it would be better if it reads that the
borrower's PCR is pending.
2.  EVALUATION SUIMARY (Page ii)
OBJECTIS
The main objective of Loan 2019-CR could be expressed better. It should be
mentioned that one of the objectives of the project was to complement the
technical assistance program that the Government of Costa Rica was carrying
out at that time with Mexico through Petroleos Mexicanos. As stated in the
document presenting the proposed project to the Bank's Executive Directors,
the main objective of the loan was to provide preliminary assessment of
overall hydrocarbon potential in Costa Rica (Loan and Project Summary Project
Description Report No. P.3001-CR, Report and Recommendation of the President
of the IBRD to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Loan to the Republic of
Costa Rica for a Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project (June 1,
1981J). Furthermore, such objective was clearly set forth in the "Project
Agreement," Section 2.08, where it states the objective as the preparation of
a comprehensive and updated study on petroleum prospects for Costa Rica.
IMPLREENTATION EXPERIENCE
Actually, 18 months were needed for the loan to become effective. The main
delay was caused by the Legislative Assembly who took too long to approve the
project (from August 1981 to December 1982). The Legislative Assembly
approved the project on December 10, 1982, and it became law on December 23,
1982. On January 21, 1983, the legal opirion was issued, and on February 2,
1982. the Bank confirmed to the Government of Costa Rica the effectiveness of
the loan.
We do not understand what is meant by the statement that there were still
additional delays to put the project "on stream," since by the time of the
arrival of a Bank mission in mid-January 1983, the terms of reference for the
marine seismic survey, the aeromagnetic survey, for a senior exploration
consultant and for a consultant to carry out the seismic interpretation were
11             In accordance with Bank policy the names of consultants and
contracting firms were deleted unless absolutely necessary.



- 10 -
completed and invitations were mailed, for each case, for possible bidders.
Also, within this four-month period, the selection of consulting firms and
consultants took place and the respective contracts were prepared. However,
formalization of the contracts was considerably delayed due to redtape at the
Legal Department of the company.
We do not think that there was lack of local funds at the start-up of project
executior. and that this could have caused delays. Neither were there delays
due to the need for coordination between RECOPE and PEMEX (this coordination
was not strictly necessary for project execution) since Loan 2019-CR was dealt
with separately from the PEMEX project. If there were any delays during this
stage they were due, in part, to the constant approvals required from the
Board of Directors of the company and, especially, to the obstacles that, from
the beginning and throughout the duration of the project, were placed by the
company's Legal Department. Because of these problems, the first disbursement
request was only submitted on October 21, 1983. However, the above does not
mean that work was not being done. From January to July 1983, the
international competitive bidding for the marine seismic survey was carried
out, the selection of the best offer was made, and on June 24, 1983, the
respective contract was signed. With respect to the aeromagnetic survey,
also, the closing date for receipt of bids was April 4, 1983, thereafter the
company was selected and the contract was signed on April 29, 1983. Data
collection took place from July 9 to August 12, 1983. By June 24, 1983,
invitations for bids on the gravimetric interpretation, Aeromag and Landeat
were mailed. During that period work was also carried out on the preparation
of the invitations, selection and negotiations for contracting the senior
exploration consultant.
The causes for the extension of the project closing date (initially estimated
for January 31, 1984, before the delays at the Legislative Assembly), were
ineeed due to the 18-month delay in obtaining project approval from the
Legislative Assembly and to substantive changes in the work program, during
project execution, due to the incorporation of activities and additional
amounts that were not originally contemplated in the project execution
timetable. The new activities required more execution time, which was not
foreseen in the original design of the project, although it seems that it was
indeed foreseen based on the amount assigned, within the loan, to the non-
allocated funds category. In fact, this factor was the most important -- the
one that had the most impact on the actual closing of the loan and, secondly,
the obstacles placed by the Legal Department of the company during project
execution in the preparation, negotiation, and signing of the different
contracts with the consulting firms and the consultants.
THE PROJECT DESIGN
We feel that the changes in the project execution timetable were due to the
reasons indicated by the Bank, although we should not lose sight of the
amounts initially left in the non-allocated funds category that reflect that,
even in the design stage of the project, provisions were made to provide a
flexible structure for the execution of the same.



- 11 -
The objective of the project was never to achieve commercial petroleum
production. We feel that the project achieved more than 1002 of the
initially-defined objectives and we, thus, disagree with the Bank's statement
that the objectives were only partially met. There was also adequate
compliance with other additional objectives that were not initially considered
in the project.
The country was totally covered with gravimetric, aeromagnetometric and
Landsat surveys. The offshore areas in the Atlantic and the Pacific were
totally covered with seismic surveys (10 km x 10 km in the Atlantic and 20 km
x 20 km in the Pacific).
The report on the "Final Analysis of Petroleum Potential in Costa Rica"
prepared by a specialized consultancy firm in exploration shows, in the
corresponding section to the executive summary, a good collection of the main
findings and conclusions reached by the execution of Loan 2019-CR, as follows:
-     Definition (area and depth) of the potential hydrocarbon basins of
Costa Rica.
-     Update of the Costa Rican history of the tectonic history.
-     Definition of the main structural trends.
-     Estimate of basin sediments and definition of their origin.
-     Definition of the broad structural formation and of the type of
structure based on the overall seismic data, obtained from
approximately 4250 km, for which the loan contributed directly
about 80Z.
-     Geological-Geophysical evaluation of stratigraphic traps of
tertiary formations and its effect on the presence of reservoir
and sourc*. rock.
-     Identification of possible reservoirs and their corresponding
environment deposit.
THE REFINERY STUDY HELPED
With respect to refining, all defined objectives for that purpose were
achieved.
With the achievements of the loan, RECOPE was able to contract and implement
the feasibility study on the best option for oil supply for the country, which
suggested the expansion and modernization of RECOPE's present refinery plant
in Moin; this project is being processed and at present is in the stage of
detailed engineering.



- 12 -
NATERUIAL EQUIPMENT WAS ACQUIRED TO TREAT SEISMIC INPORMATION
During project execution, no material or equipment was purchased to process
the seismic information, although at some point consideration was given to
purchase it. However, a small working station was bought (IBM-AT), with
specialized software to handle and interpret geophysical records on wells and
magnetic and gravimetric data.
HOWEVER THE BORROWER DID NOT
Approval of the Hydrocarbons Law was never a project objective (specifically
defined), although many of the results obtained under the project, did seek,
in one way or another, that this approval actually take place. Toward the end
of project execution the objectives were, however, re-oriented toward
technical promotion of the data obtained through presentations to the
international petroleum industry and conversations with oil companies to get
their interest in investing in exploration and development of hydrocarbons in
Costa Rica. However, the project was never contingent on Costa Rica's
approval of a Hydrocarbons Law. If the objective were to have RECOPE's
develop a technical, economical and legal platform --with Bank technical and
financial assistance-- to adequately offset the indifference and lack of
political decision that impeded the approval of the Hydrocarbuns Law during
all that time, the .roject would have been prepared in a totally different
way, both on the activities to be undertaken and on the amounts to be
financed.
FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
a)    We do not agree, as it is indicated on this point, that Project
preparation failed to identify some of the key issue that became apparent
during project implementation and execution; even less so to the point
referring to the complexity of the RECOPE-PEMEX technical agreement. From
RECOPE's perspective, the project with PEMEX was always considered to be
completely separate from the Bank project and that both projects were, from
the very beginning "independent" of each other. The PEMEX project was
specific in nature (limited to the southern area of the Lim6n), both on the
seismic studies as well as in the discovery of prospective wells, whereas the
Bank project had a more regional character and involved all the sedimentary
basins of the country. Thus, the complementary nature of Loan 2019-CR. In
fact, the most important link between the two projects was the incorporation
of the geological, geophysical and drilling data derived from the Technical
Cooperation Agreement with PEMEX, in the evaluation studies on petroleum
potential that were being carried out through the Bank loan.
As far as we know, the above was achieved in an ample and timely manner with
the rest of the information being processed under the loan (reprocessing of
seismic data obtained by a seismic consultant firm, digitalized analysis and
interpretation of geophysical records of the San Jose No. 1 well, geological



-  13  -
assessment of the Lim6n-Sur basin, processing and interpretation of gravimetry
surveys in the area, etc).
However, we do believe that during project preparation there was a failure to
include --even in a form of a contingency plan-- a program that would have
ensured the smooth transition from the stage of hydrocarbons potential
evaluation, to the stage of pushing for, on technical and economic grounds, a
Hydrocarbons Law, obtain international bids for the exploration and
development of hydrocarbons in Costa Rica, and, finally negotiation of the
corresponding contracts. The project was only a promotional project, because
the approach taken from its inception and during execution, was geared only
toward a technical assistance project, i.e., procurement, data processing,
interpretation and integration of petroleum technical information to e.valuate
the hydrocarbons potential in the country. On this specific issue, it should
be recognized that such a project that took a long time to execute (65
months), did not contribute so that this new orientation toward the
Hydrocarbons Law would proceed in the required extension and could be
consolidated on time, although there was a good attempt to achieve something
in this regard in May 1985 with the contracting of two consultants.
b)    What is indicated in this paragraph in the Bank document does not really
say, from our point of view, something that could be considered relevant. As
indicated before, the two projects were treated as essentially independent and
the agreement with PEMEX could have hardly affected the execution of Loan No.
2019-CR.
Indirectly, it could have been possible that the agreement with PEMEX could
have had an effect on the Bank project, as RECOPE resources were more
committed toward the project with Mexico (personnel, equipment and materials)
although the first activities to be carried out within the Bank project
(marine seismic, consultants and aeromagnetometry) did not require (and
certainly did not require) substantial counterpart resources. Project
implementation was affected, as well as the overall execution, by the
obstacles encountered with all contracts, specifically in the procurement and
legal advisory areas. For the former, in several contracts RECOPE's local
procurement rules for goods and services and the procurement procedures used
by the Bank, which were agreed upon through the Project Agreement, conflicted.
For the latter, there was conflict between an excessively local approach on
the terms, provisions, guaranties, obligations and applicable legal framework
which contradicted the usual specifications on contracts for technical
services in the international petroleum business, which tends to be more
direct and more technical in character. Project preparation apparently did
not assess adequately the possible impact of the two conditions mentioned
above during project execution.
Delays in project execution were basically due to the inclusion, with the
approval of both RECOPE and the Bank, of new additional exploration works with
a view to using allotments which were not assigned within the loan, i.e. the
allotment corresponding to Part D of the Project -- Technical Assistance to
the Power Sector -- which was not used for that purpose, and the assignment of
non-allocated funds or contingencies, which at the end was decided that it



- 14 -
would be convenient to use. Although the project could have been completed in
July-September 1985 (including a promotional campaign), it was decided between
RECOPE 2/ and the Bank to include new additional works before beginning the
preparation of the final evaluation report on the oil potential In Costa Rica.
c)    Although distribution of RECOPE's local resources, as the PEMEX
agreement was being implemented, could have affected the execution of Loan No.
2019-CR, we believe that this effect was not significant, except in the areas
of professional and technical personnel assignments, which during the first
years of project execution (1983-1984), could have been more committed to the
PEMEX Project. However, said Agreement was terminated in 1985 after one year
without any relevant development. A similar situation could have also arisen
with the start-up, in August 1986, of the Agreement with PETROCANADA
INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE CORPORATION (PCIAC), although at that time most of
the activities already predefined for the Bank project had already been
completed and the preparation of the final report on petroleum potential in
Costa Rica was the only thing pending. This undertaking, required lengthy
negotiations, both on technical and legal grounds that lasted approximately 8-
10 months.
ANALYSIS ON PROJECT REVIEW PROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
2.02) The fact that many areas are covered by volcanic rocks, in our opinion,
is a factor that affects mainly the exploration of hydrocarbons and not the
hydrocarbons potential in the country, since there are important sedimentary
layers under the volcanic formations, except on the borders of the basins.
However, superficial volcanic formations in several areas have hindered the
geological work, have led to serious problems in the interpretation of
gravimetry and aeromagnetic data, and have noticeably eroded the quality of
seismic data obtained in those areas.
2.03) Although it is true that the Pacific sedimentary basins are virtually
unexplored, it should be noted that generating rocks have been found with very
high levels of TOC (+22Z) which qualify as bituminous lutitae.
2.06) RECOPE does not sell refined products to the final consumer, rather, it
sells to dealers (formerly private) which actually sell it on retail.
PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.01) RECOPE's point of view is based on the fact that the departure point
for Project 2019-CR was the existing capacity in exploration resources
(personnel, materials, equipment and financial resources) that RECOPE had in
1980-81 at the time the Technical Assistance Project with PEMEX was under
implementation. However, as the project was conceived, it did not take into
2I          RECOPE had the approval of the Government of Costa Rica.



- 15 -
account any work directly related with the activities being carried out within
the agreement with PEMEX, excepting what has baen indicated before, and for
obvious reasons, in relation with the petroleum information that was being
generated within the PEMEX-RECOPE agreement, it was clear, once PEHEX had
officially delivered the information in question to RECOPE.
4.02) This only accentuates the point that the project could have been
designed, from the beginning, as a petroleum exploration promotion project
including, as the first stage, the originally designed technical assistance
project for the evaluation of the petroleum potential of the country. This
would have had required that the initial amount of the loan of US$3 million be
increased by 50Z to 802.
4.03) What is stated in this paragraph clearly explains the large execution
agenda assigned to the project, with the emphasis not on the exact compliance
of the planned dates for the activities but rather on the obtention of the
best and largest amount possible of information on oil (including information
coming from execution of other agreements that RECOPE was executing
simultaneously, e.g. the PCIAC), to be included in the final report on oil
prospects in Costa Rica and, in this sense, to develop a completely updated
report with respect to the most important activities carried out up to 1987.
4.04) In the new amendments, instead of agreeing on the development of a
apromotional report' it would have been more convenient to use the development
of a "promotional package.' In fact, this package was devele ed to make the
technical presentations to the industry in June 1988. Also, and within the
contract signed with a specialized consultancy firm in exploration, the
development of a report on bidding blocks, strategy, and minimum programs for
exploration was included, which was timely completed by this firm.
5.02 IMPLEMENTATION SCEHDULE
Among the reasons cited for the delays in project execution, it would be
convenient to analyze those which we think could fit better to what actually
happened.
a) Contracting for the senior exploration consultant had to be carried out by
open competition within the format used by RECOPE so that both local and
foreign consultants would be included (the decision to hire local consultants
was fully justified at that moment if the contracting was to go ahead). This
public open competition was approved by the Company's Board of Directors on
March 15, 1983; terms of reference were defined on March 17, and the closing
date for receipt of offers was set for April 19. The selection recommendation
for the offers (nine in total), was delivered on April 25, 1983, and
adjudication was approved by the Company's Board of Directors on April 26.
However, negotiation with the selected consultant proved to be rather
difficult, and there were several contract clauses that were objected by
RECOPE's Legal Counsel. Contract was officially signed on October 11, 1983,
and ratified by the Board of Directors on November 1, 1983.



-  16  -
The most important point of the Bank's comments to this subparagraph a) is the
one related to the "lack of availability of local funds." The problem was not
lack of local funds since RECOPE was working with approved budgets. What have
happened is that local funds could not be allocated for certain activities or
consulting work if the contract had not been previously signed. As was
previously indicated, most consultants' contracts ran into problems because of
legal requirements for approval of contracts. This process suffered delays of
several months until the documents were finally signed. This had a
substantial impact on the attitude of the consultants' selected for the
Project.
b) We believe that there could be a misunderstanding in this Section since we
ignore that USAID was somewhat related to the execution of the offshore
seismic prugram included in Loan 2019-CR.  Nor were we aware that USAID had
plans at any time to undertake seismic surveys in Costa Rica. In connection
with the marine seismic survey as well as the execution of the aeromagnetic
survey, we do not believe that there were ser4ous delays (the contract for
seismic was signed on June 24, 1983 and the one for the aeromagnetometry
survey with an aeromagnetometry firm signed on April 24, 1983).
c)  We agree that the delays by PEMEX on executing the San Jose No. 1 well
affected the geological assessment of the South Limon Area. However, it was
possible to minimize this factor when data from the other 15 wells close to
the drilling point selected by PEMEX was used. In any case, PEMEX refused to
reveal the geological data for that well until the information was officially
delivered to RECOPE.
f) It is unclear why it is mentioned that retrieval of oil exploration data
from Union Oil Company took more than two years and that, therefore, this
caused delays in project execution. The information our files shows that,
e.g., some 400 kg (880 pounds) of cuts were recovered from wells drilled by
Gulf and Union on the Limon basin (especially South Limon); this material was
indeed essential to achieve the project's objectives, especially on
micropaleontological studies. Geological reports held by Union Oil in
California were obtained in October 1984 (approximately 20 reports), as a
result of a supervision visit carried out in April of that year by Geochemical
consultant to the Union Oil facilities in California. The information of
interest in those reports was included by him in his draft report sent to
RECOPE on November 12, 1984. It should be noted that the contract with an
exploration consultant was signed on March 9, 1984, so it is difficult to
understand the comment made by the Bank in this section that there was a delay
of two years.
5.04 PROJECT COSTS
During meetings held by RECOPE and Bank representatives in Washington D.C. on
February 4, 1985, RECOPE submitted its proposal for the use of loan funds that
remained unallocated along with a detailed breakdown of the loan amounts used
up to that date and indicating the amounts committed to complete each of the
contract being implemented. The account submitted at that time, although in a



- 17 -
format different from that used by the Bank, indicated that at that time there
was a balance of non-allocated funds of US$965,523.32 and for that reason
RECOPE was submitting a proposal to carry out additional activities with funds
from Loan 2019-CR.
The above indicated account data (of the amounts paid and committed) was
always available to the Bank since that time. However, the amounts recorded
by RECOPE in the disbursement applications were not equal to the amounts
finally paid by the Bank due to the "currency basket effect' which was used by
the Bank to account for its payments. The first time a difference between the
two accounts systems was discovered (according to the files) was in December
1984, when the Bank's Disbursements Division was informed of an apparent
overpayment in the amount of US$1,319.91, in the Bank's accounting. In a
report sent to RECOPE on January 12, 1985, this difference was sbo3wn as
US$1,219.91 in the amounts that the Bank's statement of account denominated as
"US$ equivalent * SDR equivalent." By October 25, 1987, this difference
reached US$6,999.99 and it actually remained the same until the closing of the
loan and of the non-used funds in the amount of US$3,987.40. At this time
there is no satisfactory explanation that could explain how this difference
came to be. The final total amount accounted by RECOPE for the loan
implementation is US$2,989,102.38. In the annexes attached to this report, a
general breakdown of the funds used is incladed, both by companies and
consultants participating in the project implementation, as well as by the
categories defined in the initial document of the project. If the Bank so
wishes, we would be happy to send the detailed report, by each company and
consultant contracted.
As to the accounting of local counterpart costs (payments made by RECOPE in
Colones) there is no detailed breakdown for them. With the type of accounting
systems used by RECOPE during the years in which the loan was implemented, it
is impossible to determine or even estimate the counterpart funds required by
each activity. There is only some information on 'General Ledger Accounts'
which appeared in the Company's financial statements and that could be
associated with the loan. The accounts and the corresponding amounts, in
Colones, are as follows (at December 1987):



- 18 -
GENERAL LEDGER ACCOUNT        AMOUNT (COLONES)
- Tortuguero plains (7)       C.  2,580,792.00
- San Carlos plains (7)           65,527,571.00
- North Pacific Geology (7)        7,975,715.00
- South Pacific Geology (7)       15,915,871.00
- Devil Camp (7)                  29,604,617.00
- Aeromagnetometry (7)                14,417.00
- World Bank Account (local) (7)
(1983-December 1987)      144,242,547.00
GRAND TOTAL          C. 275,861,527.00
(?)   Represents the fact that it is doubtful whether or not these amounts can
be included totally as counterpart funds.
If only the three last accounts are considered, there would be a counterpart
amount of C. 183,861,578 which, at an average exchange rate estimated for
1985-1987 of C. 45 per US$1, would represent a total counterpart equivalent of
US$4,085,813.
5.05 DISBURSDMENTS
Shown below is a comparison between the estimated disbursement program for
loan implementation and the actual program:
DISBURSEMENTS                        (thousands of US Dollars)
1982    1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Annual Planned            750    1500    750     -       -      -      _
Actual per Annum           -      282   1219    647    138    191    512
? used/Annum (*)          -       9.4  40.65  21.56   4.60   6.37  17.06
(*) Refers to the total of US$3,000,000.
The reduced amount of disbursements during 1983 and the large implementation
during 1984 should be noted. This was a byproduct of the accumulation of
payments taking place in 1983 and also as a result of implementation of part A
(3), which was later included within the scheme of loan activities,
denominated as "Stratigraphic Prospection" (Campo Diablo). The amounts
included in 1988 represent completion of the contract with a specialized
consultancy firm in exploration, the payments included within the extension of
said contract, and the promotional campaign. Notice should be taken of the
stagnation in the project during 1986 and 1987, which was basically due to
completion of most of the additional activities that were approved in mid-
1985 and to the fact that the contract with this same firm for the preparation
of an evaluation report on petroleum prospects in Costa Rica did not begin



- 19 -
until January 1987, after almost 8 months of negotiations to formalize this
contract.
5.06 LOAN ALLOCATIONS
Table 2B of Part III presented by the Bank should be corrected with respect to
column 3 (revised 23) since the figure for non-allocated funds showed at the
end of the column reads US$615,000 when it should read US$79,624.54 in
&ccordance with documents in our files dated July 1985.
On the same table, it would be convenient to add certain comments on the
footnotes at the end, as follows:
Footnote 11 The technical assistance program with PEMEX, including the
extension given to the same in order to consider the perforation
of at least two exploratory wells in the Limon Sur basin, totalled
around US$10 million.
Footnote 2/ With respect to Part D of the project, the funds allocated to this
activity were not used because of the time elapsed between the
signing of Loan 2019-CR and the first disbursement (October 1983);
by that time the energy sector had already obtained non-
reimbursable funds from AID, UNDP, OAS, the Government of France,
and OLADE for the National Energy Planning and Development
Program. This support is estimated at approximately US$1.5
million, which, together with local funds from RECOPE and ICE,
permitted the establishment of the Energy Sector Directorate and
the execution of the program, which achieved, and even surpassed,
the objectives set forth within the World Bank loan.
5.07 (THE BORROWER DID NOT PREPARE ...)
It should be indicated that the Borrower's PCR is pending. With respect to
the detailed information on local costs, as was indicated before, it was not
possible to maintain separate accounting for project activities. For example,
when Part A(3) of the project (Campo Diablo Correlated Data Program) was
executed, most of the technical and professional staff working on this project
were also working on the PEMEX project since both projects were located on the
same geographic area and shared the same camping installations, supplies,
transportation, etc. Under these circumstances it was physically impossible
to keep separate accounting. A similar situation took place at the beginning
of the project with Petro Canada Int. A-sistance Corp., especially with regard
to human resources (technical and professional staff), transportation,
supplies, etc.



- 20 -
6. PROJECT RESULTS
6.01 PPOJECT OBJECTIVES
With respect to the statement that the Government of Costa Rica was not able
to obtain legislative approval of the Hydrocarbons Law and that, therefore,
the project was not successful in attracting foreign petroleum exploration
companies to Costa Rica, we feel that this situation represents an aspect with
a highly political component against which the achievement of project
objectives should not be compared. If there had been any political opening
that would have made possible the approval of this law, we feel in any case,
the project should then have strengthened more the economic and petroleum
legislation areas through the incorporation of additional consultant resources
specific to these areas. On the other hand, we believe that these objectives
were indeed accomplished, although after the closing date of the loan, with
the recent international competitive invitation carried out by RECOPE to
attract oil companies to carry out petroleum exploration in the country. The
activity carried out most recently (at the end of 1989 and beginning of 1990),
demonstrates the opposite to what is stated in this paragraph by the Bank,
since the interest of foreign companies to explore in the country is evident,
even with the knowledge that at present the applicable legal system is
established within the Costa Rican Political Constitution in the so-called
*concessionary" system with contracts similar to the association contracts
used by Colombia as the legal framework to grant concessions.
6.02  PHYSICAL RESULTS
The following is a summary of the physical results obtaineds
1.    Aeromagnetic (Aeroservice 1983/1987)                           16,322 km
2.    Marine Magnetometry (1983)                                      443.' km
3.    Marine Gravimetry (1983)                                        443.7 5km
4.    Marine Seismic (1983) (Excl. + non-Excl.)                    2,399. 28 km
5.    Land Seismic (1983/1987) (RECOPE + PCIAC)                    1,021.28 km
6.    Marine Seismic Reprocessing (1971/1973) (1984)                 967.20 km
7.    Land  Seismic Reprocessing (1980/1983), (1983)
(PEMEX and RECOPE)                                          543.56 km
8.    Marine & Land  Seismic Interpretation
(1984/1985) (Speed database)                                 4,265 km
9.    Analysis/Digitalization of Electric Recording
(1984) = feet record                                         660,170-
10.   RECOPE's Land  Gravimetry (1980/1987) RECOPE                 Est. 35,000
11.   Aeromagnetic/Gravimetric Interpretation
(1984/1987)                                                 21,147 km
12.   Procurement/Satelite Image Interpretation
(1984/1987) Images                                              33
13.   Stratigraphic Wells - Campo Diablo/Other basins
(1984/1987)            Shallow Wells                            31
14.   Geochemical and Petrophysical Lab Analysis
(1984-1985)  Samples ---                                       679



- 21 -
15. Oil and Chemical Analysis
(1984/1985) and (1987) Samples ---                                110
16.   Micropaleontology Analysis
(198411985)                                                      592
17.   Geochemical and Petrophysical Lab Analysis
(1987)       Samples ---                                       1,058
18.   Bioestratigraphy Analysis (1987)
Analysis ---                                   116
19.   Consultancy on Petroleum Exploration, General
Geological/Geophysical/Drilling, etc.
(Consultant Days) ---  630             - 30 Month/Consultant
20.   Study on Refinery Plant Evaluation (Fluor Eng) (1985)             No data
21.   Review on Energy Planning (not implemented)                     ----------
22.   Training (estimated)                                            6 month/man
Corrections should be made on the Project Implementation Table on Page 10, to
make it consistent with the above information.
6.03 IMPAtT OF PROJECT
To date, we are not aware of any oil company having signed an exploration
contract to operate in Costa Rica, much less that such a contract would have
been submitted to the Legislative Assembly. Presently, after the technical
presentations made in Houston, Calgary, and London, with the participation of
more than 75 (seventy five) companies; after sending invitation letters to
submit proposals to more than 200 (two hundred) companies, from which 39
expressed some interest, offers were received from three groups of eleven (11)
companies, and their proposals are under RECOPE's review. We know, however,
that there are currently some ten additional companies which would be
interested in undertaking exploratory operations in Costa Rica, in view of
which RECOPE is planning to carry out another promotion campaign by the end of
this year and another international bidding after that.
7. BANK PERFORMANCE
7.01 It is our opinion that through the loan, the minimum platform was
developed to understand and handle the oil laws and the contractual terms for
possible participation schemes for oil companies in Costa Rica. However, more
support should have been given to this specific area, so that RECOPE could
have had better opportunities to push for the approval of the Hydrocarbons
Law. In fact, the interest that oil companies are showing for Costa Rica is
due by more than 90Z on the quantity and quality of petroleum technical
information available in the country and the fact that there is a solid group
of professionals, technicians and skilled labor working on hydrocarbons
exploratory tasks which are a direct (but not exclusive) achievement of Loan
2019-CR implementation.



- 22 -
With respect to what is mentioned in point a) of this paragraph, as was
previously indicated, we do not believe that situation could have
significantly affected the project's development, in relation to other aspects
that did, indeed, have an important impact in the execution of activities.
We are in agreement with the statement in point b), if the indication refers
to the delay in obtaining approval of the law in the Legislative Assembly.
This delay was basically due to considerations on the difficult financial
situation (Foreign Debt), affecting Costa Rica during 1974-1983. However, we
do not believe that this situation could have affected the implementation of
the project after the date in which the effectiveness of the loan was
approved.
We are in agreement with point c).
Point d), although not entirely applicable, focuses on one of the weaknesses
in the design and execution of the loan, that is, the part on training of
RECOPE's professional and technical staff. The technology and know-how
transfer was not as effective if we take as reference the exclusive basis of
the consultants' presence in Costa Rica. The above is particularly true for
the contract with a specialized consultancy firm in exploration and
micropaleontology consultant.
We are in agreement with point e).
8. BORROMER PERFORMANCE
On Section 8.02, as was explained before, our previous view on this issue is
that there was very limited foundation within RECOPE or in other Government
institutions on which we could have undertaken an effective lobbying campaign
at the political level on the importance of a Hydrocarbons Law in Costa Rica.
There were simply no "tools" (neither in quantity nor in quality) to perform
what the Bank report refers to in Section 8.03 a) as a lesson for the
Borrower. We agree that what is said was the minimum that should have been
done. However, RECOPE undertook an intense internal campaign (within the
country) in 1985 to raise awareness on the Hydrocarbons Law, but it did not
have the adequate petroleum legislation and economic foundation to define and
push adequately the efforts made.
10. CONSULTING SERVICES
The contracts that did not yield the expected results were: aeromagnetic,
gravimetry and satel_te data interpretation (1983), due to a poor
understanding of the country's geology and other factors; geologist
consultants (which took too long to understand the local geology);
micropaleontological analysis, due to the bankruptcy of the contracted
company. Among the best contracts (based on the results obtained) was the
work developed by an explorationist and four other specialized consultancy
firms.



- 23 -
Table 3 -- PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION -- could be modified with the information
previously provided. Table 4, page 10, PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING, the funds
utilized from Loan No. 2019-CR under the column titled "actual' in thousands
of US$, should contain the following information.
A. PROJECT COSTS:                         A C T U A L
Part A:  Survey Work         Local        (USS'OOO)        TOTAL
Poreign
marine Seismic Survey                       243
Airmag Survey                               265
Sub-total A              N. A.          508             N. A.
Part 9: Studies 6
frainiLing RECOPE
Senior Exploration Cons.                     40
Specialized Studies                       1.505
Training Courses                              6
Library i Equiment                          730
Sub-total B             N. A.        2.281            N. A.
Part C: Refinery Study       N. A.          200            N. A.
Part D: Planning & .Training
for Energy Development
Consulting Services    --------                   -----
Library & Equipment              ------           -----
Training               ----                       -----
Local Staff & Facilit. --------                   -----
Sub-total D       --------                   ---
SUB-TOTAL BASE LINE COSTS      N. A.      2.989            N. A.
Physical Contigencies
Price Contigencies
Sub-total Contigencies  N. A.           11            M. A.
TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT
COST:                        N. A.        3.000            N. A.



- 24 -
5. PROJECT RESULTS
It has been thoroughly analyzed. However, although the Hydrocarbons Law has
not been approved, efforts to attract the attention and interest of several
oil companies to invest in Costa Rica have been successful. Furthermore,
concrete exploration proposals have been received with definitions on minimum
programs, royalty and participation percentages, contractual clauses, etc. We
believe this is a direct achievement of loan implementation.
D. STUDIES (page 13)
The list of studies indicated on part A. Petroleum Exploration Activities
(RECOPE), could be updated using the list of activities that we submitted in
reference to the comments on Section 6.02., PHYSICAL STUDIES of the Bank's
report. The study indicated in this part under No. 7 Basins Economic
Evaluation, should be substituted by that indicated under No. 3 in Part D,
Additional Studies (RECOPE) since preparation of an evaluation report on Costa
Rica's oil potential was indeed included from the beginning of the Project
(see Project Agreement, Section 2.08), thus, the statement made by the Bank on
Footnote 3 is not applicable.
Likewise, the indication on point 1, Part D of Additional Studies (RECOPE), is
not applicable, s->ce the seismic program on rivers and shallow waters was
never carried out, because on the one hand, when it was feasible, the cost
used was too high and on the other, when it could be economical, the quality
standards were reduced to unacceptable levels within the industry. Therefore,
the Program was finally discarded although the contract was almost ready for
signature.
6. STATUS OF COVEKANTS
2.03 (a)    (i)   The contract for the study was awarded in April 1983 after
seven specialized companies were invited to bid.
(ii) The marine seismic contract was awarded in April 1983. Five
companies submitted offers.
2.04 (a)          This seismic program (Exc+ non-Exc) was defined during
meetings with the Bank in January 1983.
2.04 (b)          This coordination took place through the Senior Exploration
Consultant and the Geophysical Consultant in June 1983 and
thereafter, before the beginning of the non-exclusive
seismic study.
2.05              Same as 2.04 (b).  During one of the visits of Rockwell to
Houston in September, 1983, he reviewed the aeromagnetical
data and adjusted localization of offshore seismic lines.



- 25 -
2.08              The date on which the contract with a specialized
consultancy firm in exploration was signed Wds November
1986.
2.10 (b)          The information was delivered (not in Bank format) every
time there were meetings between RECOPE and the Bank, albeit
on an informal manner, and only in very few cases was it put
officially in writing.
4.02              The intention was to fully comply with the delivery of this
information. However, the Bank always requested that this
information be audited. To accomplish this, RECOPE had to
wait from 6 to 8 months for the External Auditors to finish
their wor;.
B. LOAN AGREEMENT
3.01 (b)
3.02 (a) & 6.01   The agreement for *\e transfer of funds from Loan 2019-CR,
from the Government of the Republic to RECOPE took place on
January 16, 1983.
3.03
3.07 (a)          It was not used for Energy Planning.
4.02



- 26 -
BANK REMARRS CONCERNING THE DORROWER COMMHN?S ON PARTS I AND III
Most of the borrower's comments on Parts I and III of the PCR
prepared by the Bank have been taken into account. I'owever, only a few were
not. Below are (i) a listing of the pages where changes were introduced to
reflect the Borrower's comments; and (ii) the bank's remarks on those that
were not taken into consideration.
I.  Borrower Comments that were Included in Parts I and III
(1)   Page 9 - Para. 1 (Preface): The last sentence of the last para. of
page i amended.
(2)   Page 9 - Para. 2 (Evaluation Summary): The paras. on objectives on
page ii and page 2 amended.
(3)   Pages 9 to 11 (Implementation Experience): Para. 1 on page ii
amended.
(4)   Page 11 (Results): The paras. on results on page ii and para. 6.01
amended.
(4)   Page 12 (Material Equipment was acquired to treat seismic
information): Para. 3 on page iii amended.
(5)   Page 12 (However the borrower did not...): Para. 4 on page iii
amended.
(6)   Pages 12 to 17 (Findings and lessons learned): Item (a) on page
iii amended.
(7)   Page 14 (Analysis on Project review from Bank's perspective): Para
2.06 amended.
(8)   Page 19 (Loan Allocation): Table 4B entitled Project Financing and
footnotes 1 and 2 amended.
(9)   Page 19 (The Borrower did not prepare...): Para. 5.07 amended.
(10) Pages 20 and 21 (Project Results/ Project Objectives): Para.6.01
amended.
(11) Page 20 (Physical Results): Some data from this page included in
Table 3.
(12) Page 21 (Impact of Project): Para 6.06 amended.
(13) Page 22 (Consulting Services): Para. 10.01 amended.
(14) Page 25 (Studies): Relevant tables corrected.



- 27 -
II.  Bank's Remarks an Borrower's Coments not taken into Consideration
(1) The Bank concurs with the comment on page 10 raising the issue of
flexibility in the conception of the project's design which is
included in para. 4.02 on page 4. Hence no amendement is
necessary.
(2)   Comments concerning the project's results shown on page 11 are an
exhaustive enumeration of work and results accomplished by the
project that do not need to be included in this report. For this
reason, the bank focused only on the key results.
(3)   The Bank concurs that the refinery study did achieve many other
objectives as indicated on page 11. However the Bank included only
the main ones related to the project's broad objectives indicated
in Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement.
(4)   The Bank does not agree with the comment on page 13 suggesting to
drop the idea that the Bank should have had more insight into
PEMEX Technical Assistance Project during project's preparation.
Although we agree that the two projects are separate, interference
did occur during implementation and caused some delays could have
been ovoided and better coordination would have been achieved had
we known more about PEMEX project. For these reasons we kept the
text unchanged.
(5) Comments on pages 14 and 15 concerning project design and
organization give detailed information that is not essential to
the report.
(6)   Comments on pages 15 to 17 concerning project implementation give
details that explain further the delays that occured but do not
change the main conclusions included in the text particularly with
respect to the data requested from the oil company that explored
in Costa Rica.
(7)   Pages 16 to 18 and 24 include information about the Borrower's
accounting system, project's costs in foreign exchange and in
local currency and other minor aspects. We have included the
figure of total local cost in table 4A with an explanatory
footnote but not the breakdown of this cost because it is totally
different from the one we have used.
(8)   Disbursements figures in table on page 18 are not cumulative
unlike those presented in the report. For this reason we have
different percentages of actual to estimates. We have kept the
Bank standard form of presentation with no changes in the figures
given by the Trust Fund and Loan Department.



- 28 -
(9)   Comments on page 19 and 20 concerning the relevance of the passage
of the Hydrocarbon Law by the Assembly and its impact on oil
companies' interest in exploration in Costa Rica do not correspond
to what the Bank is getting as a feedback from the private
international petroleum industry. For this reason we did not
change our text (see also item 11 below).
(10)  Comments on page 21 in para. 6.03 (Impact of Project) have been
partly taken into consideration in our text because we know of a
small independent company that did make an exploration propcsal to
RECOPE and until now the future of this offer is still pending.
(11)  Part of the comments on the Borrower performance on page 22 were
taken into account as indicated in items 9 and 10 above . However,
the Bank still considers that a major campaign should have been
initiated from the beginning of the implementation of the project
and accelerated during preparation of a new Hydrocarbon Law draft.
This should have been maintained throughout in order to
progressively inform the political parties and the Assembly
leadership about the project, the very risky nature of petroleum
exploration , and the importance and urgency of an adoption of a
Hydrocarbon Law by the Assembly that is essential to attract oil
companies. In addition, it does not seem that any progress has
been achieved in the adoption of this law from the time it was
introduced to the Assembly (1984) and reviewed by the Natural
Resources Committee and now. For these reasons, we did not change
part of the orignal text in paras. 8.02 and 8.03.
(12)  The comments on projects results on page 25 have been included in
Part III Section 5. However, the Bank believes that more oil
companies, particularly small and independent ones, would have
been attracted to explore in Costa Rica had the Assembly passed
the Hydrocarbon Law.
(13)  The comments on the status of covenants on page 25 give
information that the Bank has in its file but do not change the
compliance status listed by the Bank.
(14)  Cost data given in the Annex is useful but (i) does not correspond
to the format used by the Bank to present similar information and/
or (ii) is not required for the purpose of this report.



- 29 -
COSTA RICA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECUNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2019-CR)
PROJECT COMPLETIOM REPORT
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.       Project Timetable
Date          Date               Date
Item                 Planned        Revised            Actual
Identification l/              -              -                11180
Preparation                    -              -                 2/81
Appraisal Mission               -             -                 2181
Loan Negotiations              -              -                 5/81
Board Approval                 -              -                 6/81
Loan Signature                 -              -                 8181
Loan Effectiveness           10/81            -                 2/83 2/
Loan Closing                 12184          12/87              12/87 3/
Loan Completion               6/85            -                 6/88 4/
1/ A BTO dated January 5, 1981 discussed .on January 8, 1981, served as a
project brief.
2/ Loan effectiveness date extended by nearly 15 months due to delay in
the approval of the Loan 2019-CR by the Assembly.
31  Closing date was extended three times: 12/31/85, 12/31/86 and final
12131/87 in order to finish the promotional package study.
4/  Date at which the last promotional seminar organized by RECOPE and the
Ministry of Natural Resources, Energy and Mines was held (June 28-30,
1988).
Comments:
(a) The main issues raised at time of Board approval were in relation with
delays in: (i) obtaining services of technical consultants; and
(ii) effectiveness of the Loan Agreement pending Assembly satisfaction.
(b) During implementation, the main issue was related with procurement
delays and approval of a Hydrocarbon Law by the Assembly.
2.       Loan Disbursements
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$/000)
1982   1938    1984    1986    1936    1987    1988
Appraisal Estimate                                -        -       -        -
Actual                    -      281.6  1,495.7  2,166.8  2,295.0  2,486.1  2,996.1
Actual as % of Estimate   -       12.6    49.9    71.8    76.6    82.9    98.9
Date of Final Disbursement  July 28, 1988



- 30 -
3.         Project lapluemntation
Indicators I/                     Apprulsl Estimate          Actual (or PCR Estli te)
1. Airneg survey                                  5I000 lI n-km                  18,829 lIn -km
2. Marine magnotometry and gravimetry         400 line-km (minimum)                680 lIne-km
3. Land seismic                                       "S.                         1,021 line-km
4. Marine solumic                                     U.S.                        2,899 line-km
5. Land/Morine data reprocessing                      N4S                         1,512 line-km
e. Land/Morine Interpretation                           .                              2/
7. Airmag/Oravimetry interpretation                   N S                        21,1471 lno-km
8. Oeochemistry/atratIgraphIc well                    N.S.                      650 samples 8/
outcrop samples
9. Corshole drillIng/stratigraphic wells           Not included          10 shallow wells A 8 core dril-
ling 4/
10. Refinery evaluation study                       20 man-months                     N.A.
11. Energy development planning studies             80 man-months                  Oropped 6/
12. Consultants                                     26 man-months                     N.A.
I/  The Indicators shown here Include those defined at the time of appraisal and/or during the course of
Implementation of the project.
2/  1,950 line-km offehore Caribbean aroe and 1,900 tine-km Paeific Basin.
I/ 800 samples on the Caribbean Basin and 850 samples on the Pacific Basin*.
1/ Instead of 6 planned.
t/ The work was carried out by USAID and UNDP.
-egend-
.S =  Not specified
N.A. a Not avellabl-
4.         Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Appr 1sa   E tinFt                   Actual
-    US000 -----         --------- (Us'GOO --- ------
Local    Foreign   Total      LocaI    Foreign      Total
Part A: Survoy Work
Marine-S micSurvey                  as       800       8S
Airmg Survey                        65      8s0        415
Part a: Studies I Training RECOPE
Senior Exploration Consultant       50      IO        1S0
Specialized Studies                 76       200       276
Training Courses                     6        as        40
Library and Equipment                -        10        10
Subtotal B6                            -.W. r
Part C: Refinery Study                80       200       280      N.A.        418       N.A.
Part 0: Plnning A Training fo
Enercy De-vi o-p--enT If-
Consulting Serv;ces                 as       455      490
Library and Equipment                -       1SO       16O
Training                            10        85        45
Local Staff and Facilities         880         -       830
Subtotal D                    -M       -TW        rN                A      20  2 
Subtotal Ba1line Costs          66      2,a865    ,040       N.A.      2,998       N.A.
Physical Contingencies                es       aes       480
Price Contingencies                  200       260       460
Subtotal Contingencies        --M        G1U       eU                         
toftl Estimated Project Cot 2/       920    8,000      8,920     4,086 J/   2,906      7,062
1; The work planned for this part for the Ministry of Natural Resources, Energy and Mines, wa
dropped from the project and replaced by other studies for RECOPE (para.4.08 and Part 111.50,
footnote 8).
2/ Project costs ore exempt of taxes.
! This figure was given by the Borrower In its *Comment. Report' included In Part II. It Is
high comparod to the appraisal estimate. It may include other local costs related to smilar
projects with other donors. The Borrowor did not give a breakdown of this cost.



_ 31 -
B. Proiect Financing 1,
Planned
(Loan/Credit
Source           Agreement         Revised    1/ 3/    Revised    2/ 31
(US$'000)      (US$'000)    2      (US$'000)      2
IBRD                     3.000          3,000    76.5       2,996     42.0
Expenditure
Categories
.Consultant's
Services              1,795          1,390                1,700
.Equipment,
materials &
training under
Part B(2) and
D(4) of the
Project                 240            645                  760
.Computer
processing under
Part A(2) of the
Project                 150            150                  260
.Studies under
Part C of the
Project                 200            200                  200
.Unallocated             615           615                    80
Co-Financing
Institutions 2/          0               0        0          0         0
Domestic                   920             920    23.5       4,086   58.0
TOTAL               3,920           3,920   100.0       7,082   100.0
=s=    ==S3  =w=====-3=  t_====   ===a===__ ==t==
11  Prior to the start of the Project, the Government of Costa Rica was
undertaking a program to evaluate and explore its petroleum potential
under a technical agreement with Mexico signed in November, 1980.
Under this agreement, PEMEX was obligated to carry out a program of
about US$3.0 million, which would be financed by the Costa Rican
Government through the oil facility agreement signed by Mexico and
Costa Rica, and this at 22 for 20 years. This program included
drilling of at least a deep well. The actual cost was more than
US$10.0 million.
2/  There was no cofinancing.  However, during the course of implementation
of the Bank's project, additional financing for additional exploration
work outside the Bank's project was secured by Costa Rica from UNDP,
OLADE, USAID, CIDA, PCIAC and the Government of France. USAID provided
US$1,000,000 for technical assistance, and UNDP US$200,000 for planning
studies, which were included initially into the Bank's project for a
total of US$650,000. These additional grants of about US$1,500,000
combined with RECOPE and ICE resources allowed the establishment of
Energy Sector Directorate and the execution of part of the program
initially included in the Bank's project. PCIAC provided
CANS 27 million from 1985 to March, 1989 for seismic interpretation,
drilling of S stratigraphic wells and technical assistance for
training, equipment and drilling.
3/ Revision 1 and 2 were made in January, 1984 and September, 1985
respectively.



- 32 -
5.       Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
The main benefit to Costa Rica from this loan has been the
improved knowledge of the country's sedimentary basins, their geology,
stratigraphy and petroleum potential in general. In addition, the project
helped the Government of Costa Rica to have a better idea about the
domestic demand for petroleum products and the best and most economic way
to modernize its refinery. It also helped the Government prepare a new and
attractive Hydrocarbon Law, which unfortunately still remains to be
approved by the Assembly. The promotion seminars helped in attracting many
oil companies and disseminating a valuable information about Costa Rica's
petroleum potential. However, the fact that there is no Hydrocarbon Law
until now may delay the start of exploration activity in Costa Rica by the
private petroleum industry. Finally, the project helped to train
technicians from RECOPE in the field of exploration, drilling and
contractual negotiations with oil companies.
B. Economic Impact
Not applicable, since no exploration agreements were signed with
oil companies and consequently no oil was discovered. No economic impact
was considered during appraisal.
C. Financial Impacts
Not applicable. Not considered during appraisal.



- 33 -
D. Studies
Purpos as
Defin d *t
Studies                         Appralsal         Status      Impct of Study
A. Petroleum Exploration Activities                                            HlECePE)   to evaluate the  lped In indicating
1. Bsins economic evalustion                   s tructural geology      C      the most attractive
and thickness of                ares for
the sedimentary                 exploration.
basins, their
hydrocarbons
potential and to
determine best
location areas for
drilling.
8. Refinery Studies (RECOPE)
1. Options study                               To review longer         C        Helped determine
2. Feasibility study                           term options to                  the most likely
meet deand for                  demand scenrio that
refined products.               could be used for
refinery
modificetions.
Helped determine
the most viable and
least cost option to
Improve the refinery.
C. Enero  Development Studies (OSE) 2/                                 CA
0. Additional Studies (RECOPE) 8/
1. Hydrocarbon potential evaluation report       To determine           C        Helped In getting a
2. Hydrocarbon potential promotion data        stretigraphy and         C      good underatanding of
report package                             source rock.                    the stratigraphy and
To Integrate the              geology of Son
reulte of all                   Carlos, Llm6n,
studies *nd have a              Templsque  and Nicoys
geologic synthesis.             Boeing.
To include                    . Had o positive
geologic, selmle,              lmpct on oll
legal, contractual              companies and
and general                     provided up to date
Information data.               information.
C - Completed
CA a Cncell ed
3] Was transferred to part D.B
2/ Initially to be carried out by the Bank. Ultimately thew studies were
carried out under UlDP or bilateral ald program (USA!D and CIDA).
3/ The additional studles were not Included in the project. Thoy were
added as a reult of savings and at tho request of the Government of
Co*t RIca.



_ 34 -
6.      statue of Covemata
D-edline for
Covenant                               Subject                              Compliance          Status
A. Project Agrement
A.  3 tA A   rmn AI nag survey will be awarded through LIT (Mln 8             NnS               04/88
quotat;ion8).
(ii) MorTine seismic survey will be awarded following            M1S.
evaluation of proposals furnished by qualified contractors
operating In the area.
(Tii) LCB
2.04(a)     Prior to execution of the marine seismic survey, RECOPE           N.S.              C.W.D.
will furnish the Bank for approval a spectfte program of
the survey needed and firms qualtfied to carry It out.                             C.W.D.
2.04(b)     RECOPE will coordinate the execution of a selsmic survoy          N.S.              C.W.D.
off the Caribbean coast, which Is not included in Part A(2)
of tho Project, with the survey being carried out under
such Part.
2.06        Prior to execution of the marine seismic survey off the           N.S.              C.W.D.
PacifTc Coast, RECOPE will obtain the results of tho *irmag
survey under Port A(1), and utilize the results in the
design of any such marine seismic surveys.
2.08        Prior to execution of Part C(2) (refinery expansion               ".S.              C.W.D.
feosibility study) RECOPE will furnish to the Bank for
review the results of the refinery sector analysiT
underPart C(l).
2.08        RECOPE *hell, with the assistance of a senior exploration        01/84              C.W.D.
consultant, not later than Jan.8184, carry out an
Integrated study of the petroleum potential of the
territory, prepare a strategy proposal for exploration and
development of such potential and furnish such study and
strategy proposal to the Bank for comment.
2.10(b)     RECOPE will furnish to the Bank on a seml-anual basis a                             C.W.D.
report on the status of execution of Parts A, B and C of
the Project.
4.02        RECOPE will have Its accounts and financial staements for         N.S.              C.W.D.
each fiscal yeor audited by Independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank and furenish to the Bank not later than
8 months after the end of such year certified copies of Its
financial statements for such year audited and the report
of such audit.
Loan
Aireenent
(EUf)T    The Borrower will cause RECOPE to carry out Parts A, B  C          N.S.              01/83
8.02(a)     of the Project and will transfer to RECOPE the proceeds of
& 8.01       the Loan under contractual arrangements.
3.03        The Borrower will employ consultants to carry out Part D of       N.S.              C.W.D.
the Project (Energy Development Planning).
8.07(a)      The Borrower will furnish to the Bank on a s*miannual basis        -                N.C.
a report on the executlon of Part D of the Project.
4.02         The Borrower will maintain records adequate to reflect In          -                N.C.
accordance with appropriate accounting practices, the
operatlon, resources and expenditures In respect of Part 0
of the Project.
LEOED:
-Re-i-ot complied
CW = Complied with
CUD a Complied with delay
US = Not specified



- 35 -
7.         Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
Project Cycle            Planned        Revised        Final               Comments
Through Appraisal               -            16.5          16.5
Appraisal through               -             6.0            6.0
Board approval
Board Approval                  -             3.2            3.2        It took 15 months
through                                                                for the loan to
effectiveness                                                          become effective
Supervision                     -           122.9         122.9
TOTAL                  -           1WT.6         Ib7Ib7
B.  Missions
Stage of        Month/   Number of      Days     Specialization   Performance Rating        Types of
_Proect Cycle        Year      Persons    In Field     Represented           Status             Problems
A. Throupg  Appraj-al
-  id ntT1i4ion     5O/80         1           2             E
07/80       1           2             R
11/80       2           S           PE/I
- Appraisal            02/81        B           6         PE/a/E                                     E
TOTAL                        9          12
B. Appraisal through Board Approval
C. Board Approval through Loan Effectiveness
-1i0/81     1           2             G              lJl11/             F, PI M2
0. Full Supervision
1*2/68       2           6           PEIO               2/2                   T
04/s8       a           18       PE/C/G/E/CS            2/1                T, 0
10/83       4          18          PE/G/CS             2/1                   P
05/84       2           8            FE                2/1                   P
08/84       2           4            PE                 1/2                  P
11/84       8           S          PE/CS/G             1/2                   P
05/85       2           9           PE/0                1/2                  P
01/58       1            7           PE                  1                   P
E. Fol low-Up SupervTsion  BTO) 8/
0Vola       2           4            PE                  -                   -
06/83       2           4            PE                  -                   -
10/88       a           6             R                 -                    -
02/84       a           4            PE                  -                   -
06/84       1           8            Cs                  -                   -
06/84       1           a            PE                  -                   -
02/86       1           6             R                  -                   _
02/86       2           4            PE                  -                   -
03/86       1           6            CS                  -                   -
07/68       8           2            PE                  -                   -
03/87       2           8            PE                  -                   -
06/67       2           2            PE                  -                   -
06/88       1            8           PE                  -                   -
0oa89       1           S           PE/F                 -                   -
lj First number Indicates status while the second indicates trend.
Status: 1 - Problem free or minor problem; 2 - Moderate proble; 3 - Major problems.
Trend: & - Improving; 2 - Stationary; 8 - Deteriorating.
2/ Thes initisis represent the type of problem encountered: F=F1nanciTl, 1=U1anagerial; T=Technical;
PUPolitical, O=Other.
3/ These missions are usually follow-up mission dealing with either legal, refining, contractual or other
technical problems. Most of them were In Costa Rica even though som were In the USA. The Uissions In
the USA were for the purpose of either meeting a consultant working on the project or preparing and
attending the promotional seminars for exploration in Costa Rice. One mission was In Mexico City for
the purpose of reviewing PEMEX work in Costa Rica.
Les Cd:
FE = ltetroleum Engineering; C = Le l Counsel; 0 = Ooology; E a Exploration; CS aContract Sp cilalst;
R * RefinTng; FA a Financlal Analy1si



