Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3001-CR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FOR A
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
June 1, 1981
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit     =        Colon (¢)
US$1               =       ¢18.0
t1                =        US$.055
UNITS AND MEASURFS
kW                 =       kilowatt
MW                 =       megawatt = 1,000 kW
kWh                =       kilowatt-hour
GWh               =        gigawatt-hour=1,O0O,OOO kWh
m                  =       meter = 3.28 ft.
km                 =       kilometer = 0.621 mi.
km2                =       square kilometer = 0.386 sq. mi.
TOE               =        tonnes of oil equivalent
(14.415 x 10 Kcal)
b/d                =       barrels per day
ABBREVIATIONS
CABEI    -       Central American Bank for Economic Integration
(Banco Centroamericano de Integracion Economica)
CACM     -       Central American Common Market
(Mercado Comun Centroamericano)
CNSE     -       National Council of the Energy Sector
(Consejo Nacional del Sector Energetico)
ELF      -       Elf-Aquitaine
ICE      -       Costa Rican Electricity Institute
(Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad)
IDB      -        Inter-American Development Bank
IMF      -       International Monetary Fund
MEM      -       Ministry of Energy and Mines
PEMEX    -       Mexican Petroleum
(Petroleos Mexicanos)
RECOPE   -        Costa Rican Petroleum Refinery
(Refinadora Costarricense de Petroleo, S.A.)
UNDP     -       United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
*    Until September 1980, the rate of exchange with the U.S. dollar was 48.6;
in September, a dual exchange rate was established, with 50 percent of transac-
tions fixed at a rate of 48.6 and the remaining 50 percent at the free exchange
rate. Since December 26, 1980 the Costa Rican colon has been floating; on May 20,
1981, it was W18.0 to the U.S. dollar. At present, it is difficult to predict
at what rate it will stabilize, but a rate of W15 to the U.S. dollar has been
used for purposes of this report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COSTA RICA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Republic of Costa Rica
Loan Amount:                US$3.0 million equivalent
Terms:                      Fifteen years, including three years of grace,
at 9.6 percent interest per annum.
Project Description:        The objective of the project is to assist the
Government of Costa Rica in its efforts to assess
and develop the country's petroleum potential,
prepare specialized energy sector studies, and
address issues in the refining subsector. The
project would complement ongoing exploration
efforts being carried out with the assistance of
Petroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX). It would comprise:
(i) complementary survey work, including marine
seismic and airborne magnetometer (airmag) surveys,
required for a complete review of the country's
petroleum potential; (ii) about 10 man-months of
exploration consultant services, to help review and
interpret data and prepare an exploration strategy;
(iii) about 15 man-months of short term consultan-
cies to undertake specialized geological studies;
(iv) about 30 man-months of consultant services to
help develop a national energy data base and prepare
a national energy plan; (v) about 20 man-months of
consultant services to help prepare a study of
options in the refining subsector; and (vi) staff
training and purchase of library materials and
specialized office equipment. The project has no
major risks.
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
-(US$ $000)-
Estimated Cost: 1/                        Local         Foreign        Total
Petroleum Exploration
Marine Seismic Survey                     65            800           865
Airmag Survey                             55            360           415
Senior Exploration Consultant             50            130           180
Specialized Studies                       75            200           275
Training Courses                           5             35            40
Library and Equipment                      -             10             10
Refinery Study                              30            200            230
Energy Planning
Consulting Services                       35            455           490
Library and Equipment                      -            160           160
Training                                  10             35            45
Local Staff and Facilities              330               -           330
Subtotal Baseline Costs              655          2,385          3,040
Physical Contingencies                      65            365           430
Price Contingencies                        200            250           450
Subtotal Contingencies               265             615           880
Total Estimated Project Cost               920          3,000         3,920
Financing Plan:
Government                              920               -           920
IBRD                                      -           3,000         3,000
Total                                920          3,000          3,920
(US$'000 by Bank fiscal year)
Estimated Disbursements:                  1982          1983          1984
Annual                                   750         1,500           750
Cumulative                               750         2,250         3,000
Rate of Return:                            Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:                    None.  This is a combined President's
and Staff Appraisal Report.
1/   Project costs are exempt from taxes.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRIJCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECTTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FOP A PETROLEUII SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$3.0 million to the Republic of Costa Rica
for a Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project. The loan would have a
term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 9.6 percent
per annum.
PART I - THF ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Costa Rica:  Current Economic Position and
Prospects" (No. 3193-CR) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
November 10, 1980. A special report entitled "Costa Rica: Trade Incentives
and Export Diversification" (No. 3195-CR) was also distributed to the Executive
Directors at the same time. Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
Development Trends and Policies
3.        Costa Rica is a small medium-income country.  In 1979 its popula-
tion was 2.16 million and its per capita income $1,810. It is an example
among developing countries of how high per capita income growth may be achieved
without an undue concentration of development benefits in the upper income
groups. Per capita income has increased at an annual average rate of 3.0
percent since 1960, and the country's income distribution is one of the most
equitable in Latin America. Successive governments have paid substantial
attention to both developing the country's infrastructure (roads, hydropower
and opening new areas for cultivation) as well as addressing the social needs
of the people. More than 45 percent of all expenditures of the Central
Government have traditionally been in education, health, nutrition and other
social sectors. Health and nutrition programs have been an important factor
in halving mortality rates from 10 per thousand in the early 1960's to the
present 5 per thousand. Life expectancy at birth has risen to 70 years.
At the same time, rising incomes, higher educational standards, and active
birth control-related programs have reduced birth rates so that the natural rate
of population increase fell from 3.7 percent in 1960 to its current level
of 2.5 percent, in spite of the dramatic fall in mortality rates. Moreover, by
spending almost one-third of its budget on education, the Central Government
has been able to improve the coverage and quality of primary and secondary
schools, reduce illiteracy to a minimum--the adult literacy rate was 90 per-
cent in 1979--and provide good quality university education.  Costa Rica
has no standing army and the share of Government expenditures devoted to
security--about 2 percent--has long been one of the lowest in the world.
A coalition of minority parties won both the Presidential and Congressional
elections in 1978.  The Executive's Congressional majority is small and this
has led to delays in the legislative passage of Government programs. New
elections will be held in February 1982, with a new Government taking office
in Mlay 1982.



- 2 -
4.        Both agriculture and industry have historically experienced vigorous
growth.   Agricultural output growth in the 1960's was among the highest in
Latin America. However, the economy has been undergoing a fundamental trans-
formation as industry has become the largest productive sector. Industrial
value added , which has grown at an annual average rate over 8 percent since
1960, currently contributes 30.7 percent of GDP, and since 1963 has absorbed
more than twice as many new employees as has agriculture. The rapid growth of
industry was facilitated by the creation of the Central American Common Market
(CACM) in 1960, which fostered a pattern of regional import substituting
industrialization behind high tariff barriers. Regional trade in manufactured
products grew very rapidly in the first years of the CACM, but more recently,
as the first, easy stage of import substitution has ended, the CACM has become
a source of diminishing importance for industrial growth. The Government,
conscious of the need to maintain the momentum of industrial growth by finding
new markets for manufactured products, is currently reviewing policies with a
view to removing economic distortions and institutional bottlenecks which
inhibit an export thrust.
5.        Costa Rica's economy is very open and its exports and imports
highly concentrated. In 1980, for instance, merchandise exports constituted
about 21 percent of domestic production while imports absorbed 32 percent;
about two-thirds of exports were agricultural commodities and a similar
proportion of imports (excluding petroleum) were capital and intermediate
goods. This level of openness and degree of concentration make the economy
quite vulnerable to external price movements. The economy's growth has thus
been punctuated by periodic balance of payments difficulties, where the
originating impulse is most often to be found in deteriorating terms of trade.
Financial strains, moreover, have been occasionally pronounced as the Government
has, in these periods of difficulty, initiated countervailing expansions of
Government expenditure and credit.
The Current Economic Crisis and Stabilization Efforts through Early 1981
6.        Recent economic history exemplifies these cyclical pressures.  In
1976 and 1977, led by a quadrupling of coffee prices and continued improvements
in banana and cocoa prices, the terms of trade moved sharply in Costa Pica's
favor. CDP growth accelerated and the expansion was accompanied by a rapid
increase in imports. With improved export performance, the resource gap
declined from 11.6 percent of GDP in 1974-1975 to an average 5.7 percent in
1976-1977. In 1978, and again in 1979, coffee prices fell substantially and
in the latter year, the country, along with other oil importers, was subjected
to the latest round of increases in the price of petroleum. GDP growth,
moreover, slackened in 1978-1979 as the CACM demand for manufactured products
weakened (mainly owing to political developments in the region) and as agricul-
ture suffered a poor crop in 1979.
7.        Not all sources of difficulty were external.  The Government in
lq78-79 adopted expansionary fiscal and monetary programs which generated
excess demand pressures in the economy. Public savings virtually disappeared
as current expenditures increased 50 percent faster than current revenues.
Simultaneously, public capital expenditure remained high, growing from the
equivalent of nearly 9 percent of GDP in 1976 to over 10 percent in 1979.
Investment levels rose substantially in the electricity and transport sectors,



and the State Development Corporation made several large investments with
limited economic returns. Significant recourse to Government borrowing
from the banking system was necessary, and the resulting credit expansion
exacerbated inflation.
8.        These difficulties continued into 1980 and the financial disequi-
librium worsened. Early in the year the Government formulated a stabilization
program which provided the basis for a Standby Agreement with the International
Monetary Fund (IMF). By September it became clear that none of the performance
criteria could be met. Indeed, 1980 ended with an overall public sector deficit
that was 12 percent of GDP as compared to a programmed 7 percent of GDP and
with an increase of 44 percent, as opposed to the programmed 25 percent, in
domestic credit expansion to the public sector. Imports were much higher than
expected and the 1980 current account deficit was the same as in 1979, 14.5
percent of GDP. By the end of December 1980, net reserve levels had fallen to
minus US$137 million, gross reserves were at US$276 million or 9 weeks of
imports, substantial import arrears had developed and commercial sources of
borrowing appeared to be rapidly drying up. Furthermore, the inflation rate,
for the second year in a row, remained in excess of 20 percent.
9.        The rapidly deteriorating economic situation forced the Government
to announce a fully floating exchange rate on December 26, 1980, and attempt
the negotiation of a further standby with the IMF; however, this effort failed
largely because of the Government's desire to avoid expenditure cuts. By
early March, despite the Government's attempt to manage the float, the
exchange rate exceeded 17 colones per US dollar, twice the former official
rate of 8.6, and it was apparent that non-concessionary capital was no longer
available.
Ongoing Stabilization Efforts and Prospects
10.       Negotiations with the IMF were resumed in March 1981, this time
for an Extended Fund Facility. While substantial progress was made, including
agreement on major expenditure reductions, final agreement was delayed mainly
as a result of difficulties in determining the level of exchange rate guarantees.
As a result of intensive negotiations in Washington in May, it is now expected
that the Board of the IMF will be able to consider approval of an agreement
before the end of June 1981. Nevertheless, an IMF agreement would only be
the first of a series of steps needed to begin to restore confidence in the
economy. Moreover, private capital sources are likely to wait until fall 1981,
pending the outcome of the first review of the agreement, or even possibly
until after the elections in February 1982, before any significant resumption
of lending. Hence it appears probable that no significant non-official public
borrowing can be expected throughout 1981, with the consequence that the real
level of imports will be only 70-75 percent of the 1980 level and real per
capita GDP 5 percent less than that for 1980. Should export earnings grow
less than expected in 1981, foreign banks refuse to continue to roll over
large amounts of short term debt, and disbursements from official donors be
reduced, import and GDP levels could be considerably lower, thus forcing a
continued devaluation of the colon and pushing up inflation.
11.       Irrespective of the timing of the IMF agreement, and whether it is
successfully implemented by the present or successor Government, there remains
a need to augment the stabilization program with additional major changes in



- 4 -
policies and programs, if the country is to avoid continued stagflation and
arrive at a new, although modest growth path. The changes are major and
include (i) further efforts to control public expenditures, including ending
or substantially reducing mandatory earmarking of budget revenues, strengthen-
ing the National Budgetary Authority established in 1979 with technical assis-
tance from IMF, improving the efficiency of expensive social programs and
developing a coherent and well planned public investment program; (ii) addi-
tional efforts to accelerate exports and increased emphasis on agriculture,
Costa Rica's main comparative advantage; (iii) further efforts to exploit
domestic energy resources to further reduce dependence on imported oil;
(iv) completion of the partial liberalization of the interest rates and financial
system already carried out; and (v) introduction of appropriate pricing
policies.
12.       Even under the optimistic assumptions of stabilization and
substantial structural reform, Costa Rica's longer term economic prospects
through to 1990 are not very buoyant. The foreign exchange constraint will
remain binding throughout the 1980s and imports will be forced to adjust to
exchange availabilities. As approximately 60 percent of Costa Rica's imports
are raw materials, intermediate and capital goods for industrial and agricul-
tural activity, the negative growth consequences are unavoidable. Real
per capita GDP will likely not reach the 1980 plateau until the mid 1980s.
The need to restrain consumption, particularly Government consumption will
require great care in the budgeting of fiscal resources to ensure the poor do
not suffer unnecessarily. Furthermore, an unemployment problem could arise
even in the case of university graduates; already the number of educated
unemployed is expanding.
13.       It is crucial to note that these economic prospects are predicated
on major structural changes. The export incentives to be introduced should be
sufficiently strong to generate a real export growth rate of about 6 percent per
annum despite the difficulties associated with the discovery of new markets in
the slow growing highly competitive world economy of the 1980's instead of the
highly protected Central American market. Public investment will have to be
restricted and the overall efficiency of both private and public investment
enhanced. Moreover, Government consumption should be held more or less
constant in real terms despite any perceived need for adjustment to high
inflation rates or increasing unemployment. The recent improvement in the
domestic resource mobilization effort should be maintained, with domestic
savings remaining around 14 percent of GDP despite reduced per capita
consumption.
14.       In summary, Costa Rica will continue to experience serious economic
difficulties and a substantially lower rate of growth during the 1980s.
Nevertheless, assuming that a satisfactory stabilization program coupled
with major changes in programs and policies along the lines of those out-
lined earlier can be implemented, Costa Rica can be expected to regain its
traditional creditworthiness in the relatively near future.



5
External Assistance
15.       Costa Rica's public external debt repayable in foreign currency amounted
to US$1,643 million at the end of 1980, US$2,414 million if undisbursed commit-
ments are included. The World Bank held 11 percent of the debt outstanding
and disbursed, and 13 percent of debt outstanding including undisbursed. The
World Bank share of total public debt service in 1980 was 8 percent and will
likely increase in the future as the share of private lending drops. Of the
other major lenders to Costa Rica, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
holds 19 percent of external public debt outstanding, including undisbursed,
Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) 7 percent, the U.S.
Government 6 percent, Venezuela 4 percent, other bilateral lenders 8 percent
and private lenders 42 percent.
16.       The lending to Costa Rica during 1970-80 from the four principal
external agencies totals US$1,768.5 million, at FY80 prices, of which IDB
has provided 40 percent, the Bank Group 27 percent, CABEI 26 percent and
USAID 7 percent. The IDB has concentrated on power, transport and education;
USAID on agriculture,urban development and health; and CABEI on transport,
power and housing (see Annex I, page 6). These agencies are likely to continue
in the same areas in the future.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       Costa Rica has received to date 26 Bank loans and one IDA credit
totalling US$383.5 million net of cancellations. Of these, six were for
power, five each for telecommunications, industry and highways, three
for agriculture and one each for education, water supply and urban transport.
Sixteen projects have been completed. Performance audit reports have been
issued for two highways and two telecommunications projects and for one
agriculture and one power project. These reports indicate that project
objectives were generally achieved in highways, telecommunications and power,
but relatively less so in agriculture where appraisal targets for crop produc-
tion and exports were missed, partly due to the appearance of other sources of
finance and shifts in markets and incentives, and where there was only limited
success in establishing an efficient project unit within the Central Bank and
in the adoption by commercial banks and borrowers of better investment analysis
methods. Effectiveness of Bank loans to Costa Rica has often been slowed by
legislative ratification delays. The Fifth Highway Project signed May 27,
1980, and the San Jose Water Supply Project signed January 14, 1981, are not
yet effective because of this problem. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credit and IFC investments as of April 30, 1981, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       Since other lenders have been able to provide Costa Rica with sub-
stantial amounts of concessional lending which the Government prefers to use
for its socially-oriented investments, the main thrust of the Bank's past
lending has been to help develop basic infrastructure, such as power, tele-
communications, highways and water supply. However, the Bank has also provided
assistance for agricultural and industrial credit, and has helped make educa-
tional programs more consistent with manpower objectives through a loan for
secondary and vocational education.



- 6 -
19.       In future lending to Costa Rica, given the changed economic circum-
stances, we intend to emphasize increased support for export promotion activ-
ities, including development of the country's productive sectors, especially
agriculture, coupled with support for development of domestic energy resources
to further reduce dependence on oil imports. Bank lending would also be
designed to support and encourage the structural and policy changes needed to
carry out an effective stabilization program. In energy, the proposed project
would help evaluate the country's petroleum potential, study options in the
refining subsector, and assist in future energy planning studies. The Bank
will also continue to support development of Costa Rica's hydro power potential.
Because of the importance of agricultural exports in reducing Costa Rica's
current account deficit, the Bank plans to finance selected credit and regional
development projects in this sector. An upcoming project for the Coto Sur
area, in addition to raising the living standards of low-income farmers, is
designed to expand oil palm development. Another important objective of Bank
lending is to continue to support institutional development, with special
focus on strengthening key social sector agencies to make more efficient use
of C-overnment resources. In this regard, a technical assistance project
designed to promote increased cost effectiveness of the education system is
currently under preparation.
20.       In 1963, IFC's Board of Directors approved an investment in loan and
equity of US$194,000 and US$76,000, respectively, in Productos de Concreto,
S.A., to help finance a new concrete block factory. A further investment in
the same Company, consisting of loan and equity amounts of US$183,000 and
US$130,000, respectively, was approved in 1966. These investments have since
been sold and fully repaid. In 1978, the Board of Directors approved a US$2.5
million loan for the expansion of the facilities of Scott Paper Company de
Costa Rica, S.A. The loan has been fully disbursed and the project completed
on schedule and within budget. An equity and loan investment of US$700,000
and US$1.4 million, respectively, was approved in 1979 to help finance the
integration and expansion of a shrimp farm, Maricultura S.A., on the Pacific
coast. The project, designed to support development of the innovative shrimp
farming industry, was structured in coordination with two local commercial
banks and a Government-owned development financial institution. The Maricultura
project is facing financial and management difficulties and IFC is working
closely with the Company shareholders and other lenders in implementing a plan
of action to solve them. IFC is also exploring other financing possibilities
in the country.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources, Supply and Demand
21.       Total energy consumption in Costa Rica amounted to 1.36 million tons
of oil equivalent (TOE) in 1979, making Costa Rica the second highest per
capita consumer of energy in Central America. This reflects both the level
and distribution of the country's per capita income, one of the highest and
most equitable in the region. Electrification is also extensive, with about
75% of the population having access to electric power in 1978. Energy consump-
tion has grown at an average annual rate of 4.9 percent since 1965. At the



- 7 -
same time, the economy's dependence on commercial energy has also increased
rapidly, from 41 percent of total consumption in 1965 to 70 percent in 1979,
reflecting both the growth in per capita incomes as well as increased urbaniza-
tion and industrialization. Petroleum products account for about 70 percent
of commercial energy requirements. Despite the growing reliance on commercial
energy, non-commercial energy resources are still important in some sectors:
a 1978 survey estimated that nearly 50 percent of households still use wood as
a primary source of energy for cooking, and bagasse is used as a fuel in sugar
mills. The residential and commercial sectors are the largest end-users of
energy in Costa Rica with 39 percent of total energy use, followed by transport
with 32 percent, and industry and agriculture with 27 percent.
22.       Hydropower is Costa Rica's most abundant, and potentially prolific,
energy resource. The Costa Rican Electricity Institute (ICE), the electric
power public utility, has identified 75 sites for hydroelectric plants with a
total potential of 9,000 MW and a possible annual output of 37,000 GWh.
Current installed capacity stands at about 506 MW and annual production was
about 2,150 CITh in 1979. Costa Rica is giving high priority to developing its
hydroelectic potential. By 1982, after the commissioning of the Corobici
Project, capacity is expected to increase to 680 TW. The Bank has financed
six projects in the power sector, and a seventh which would provide some 28 MW
of additional generating capacity is expected to be appraised this calendar
year.
23.       The potential of other energy resources is less well known.  A pre-
liminary prospecting study of the Talamanca area in eastern Costa Rica detected
the presence of bituminous coal; potential coal reserves in the area studied
are estimated at 26 million tons. Further exploration work is warranted
and may be carried out with bilateral assistance from Japan. Geothermal
resources are being studied with the help of the IDB. Promising reserves
have been located in northern Costa Rica, and preliminary data indicate that
two 50 MW geothermal plants could be installed. A feasibility study for the
first plant is now underway and should be finished by mid-year, with the
facilities commissioned by end-1985. In recognition of the escalating cost
of imported oil, and the importance of the transport sector as a major
end-consumer of petroleum products, the Government has also begun to evaluate
the potential for producing alcohol from biomass (mainly sugarcane) as a
gasoline substitute.
24.       While no oil for commercial production purposes has been found to
date in Costa Rica, the existence of significant oil and gas shows in some
wells and as surface seeps, suggests the possibility of finding hydrocarbon
resources in the country. However, the petroleum potential is modest because
geological conditions are complex and much of the land area is covered by
volcanic rocks. Nevertheless, a complete and up-to-date evaluation is warranted
because the continued increase in the price of oil has made the return on
investment in even small oil/gas discoveries attractive. Exploration work has
begun with the assistance of Petroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX) (para 31), and will
be further advanced under the proposed project.



Sector Institutions and Policies
25.       In 1980, in recognition of the growing importance of energy issues
to the economy of Costa Rica, the Government appointed a Minister of Energy
and Mines (MFM.) responsible for coordination and overall policy direction in
the energy sector, and is in the process of formally establishing a Ministry
of Fnergy and Mines. The major operating institutions--ICE with responsibili-
ties in the power sector, and the Costa Rican Petroleum Refinery (RECOPE) with
responsibilities in the petroleum sector, including exploration (para 32) -
report to the Minister of MEll. Two additional groups were created: (i) the
National Council of the Fnergy Sector (CNSE), chaired by the Minister of
MEM, and composed of the Ministers and Executive Presidents of the main
institutions in the sector, including ICE and RECOPE, and having the task of
defining priorities for energy development and ensuring coordination between
implementing agencies; and (ii) the Secretariat for Energy Sector Planning
(SESP) established to develop an energy data base, prepare specialized studies
of the energy sector, and develop a national energy planning capacity.
26.       Energy assessment efforts have been given priority in Costa Rica.
With UNDP assistance, a comprehensive study of energy supply and demand was
carried out to review the historical energy utilization profile and energy
balances between 1965-79. Further work will be carried out with assistance
provided in the proposed project to develop an energy data base, prepare a
supply and demand scenario, and complete an integrated energy plan, including
an investment program for the sector. With regard to energy pricing, electric
power tariffs have been maintained at adequate levels in accordance with Bank
loan covenants; they were most recently raised in January 1981. Following a
five-year period during which petroleum product prices were not changed, due
to a growing concern over the impact of increasingly expensive energy on the
Costa Rican economy, in 1979 the first in a series of nine rapid price increases
was approved by the Government.  The present price levels of major petroleum
products are summarized in the following table:
Table 1
Retail Prices of Major Petroleum Products
Product             ¢/gallon       TJS$/gallon     International Price 1/
(IJS$/gallon)
Gasoline              35.9              2.39                 0.95
Diesel                23.4               1.56                0.93
Kerosene              23.4               1.56                1.00
Fuel Oil               5.7              0.38                 0.72
1/   Based on Caribbean ex-refinery prices as of March 1981.
Historically, interproduct pricing was skewed with diesel fuel prices substan-
tially below those of gasoline, resulting in strong growth rates in the demand
for diesel fuel. However, recent price increases have reduced the relative



- 9 -
price differential between diesel and gasoline. The Bank will continue to
review the issue of product pricing with the Covernment, particularly in the
context of a contemplated refinery study, during implementation of the proposed
project.
THEF PETROLEUM SECTOP
Supply and Demand
27.       Costa Rica currently has no domestic petroleum production and all
demand is met through imports of petroleum products and crude oil for refin-
ing. The country's oil import bill increased from IJS$71 million in 1975
to an estimated $125 million, or about 12 percent of the estimated value of
merchandise exports, in 1980. Costa Rica obtains roughly 80 percent of its
total oil imports from Mexico and Venezuela, and has actively negotiated
with the Governments of these two countries for the use of their special oil
facility funds, which are designed to provide both balance of payments and
project financing support. An agreement with Mexico has already been reached
(para 31), and discussions are underway with Venezuela. Consumption of
major petroleum products in Costa Rica increased from 2.3 million product
barrels in 1970 to 5.8 million product barrels in 1979, an average growth rate
of about 9 percent per annum. Product demand is dominated by diesel oil,
representing about 50 percent of the total, with gasoline and fuel oil accounting
for an additional 38 percent of total consumption. RECOPE is responsible for
the import and refining of crude oil and products, and owns and operates a
12,000 b/d refinery on the Caribbean coast at Moin. Domestic refining capacity
currently meets the country's needs for kerosene, fuel oil and jet fuel, but
falls short of required levels for gasoline, diesel and liquified petroleum
gas. Due to this mismatch between refinery output and demand, a large propor-
tion of diesel fuel is imported. The high level of demand for diesel results
in part from its historically low relative price in relation to gasoline
(para. 26), and also from its extensive use for electric power generation in
gas turbines during periods of low hydroelectric production. Under the
proposed project, future options for meeting refined products demand will be
assessed.
Petroleum Geology
28.       Costa Rica's total land area is about 51,000 km2, of which 21,500 km2
are sedimentary. The offshore area also totals 51,000 km2, divided into a shelf
area (0-200 m) of 15,000 km2 and a deep-water area (200-3,000 m) of 36,000 km2.
The backbone of the country is a volcanic mountain chain extending from the
northwest on the Pacific Ocean to the southeast into Panama. A thick series
of volcanic rocks extends over the entire area, except on the Caribbean
coastal plains and offshore, and sections of the Talamanca mountains in the
southeast. Therefore, petroleum exploration in Costa Rica has been confined
to these latter areas (paras. 29 and 30). On the Caribbean coast, the northern
Limon Province consists of a sedimentary basin which thickens (possibly to
6,000 m) in a northeasterly direction and extends into the offshore. In
southern Limon, the geology is more complex (the rock section appears to
consist of a number of thrust fault plates), and apart from sections of the
Talamanca mountains, the prospective area consists of the coastal plains and
the offshore. With regard to other non-mountainous parts of the country, the



- I k-
Pacific lowlands in the north seem to consist mainly of volcanic rocks of older
Tertiary age, although attractive sedimentary sections may exist towards the
south. The northern part of the country appears to be covered mainly by a veneer
of Ouarternary volcanic rocks, possibly overlaying sedimentary sequences.
Petroleum Potential
29.       Much of the land area of Costa Rica is covered by recent lava flows
and volcanic ash. Although this makes exploration a relatively high risk,
source rocks for hydrocarbon generation are known to exist since oil shows
have been reported from seepages and wells. Onshore, the Limon Province is
Costa Rica's most prospective area. The sedimentary section in the Limon
basin is considered thick enough to have generated oil which could have
migrated into structural traps, but which may be difficult to detect. off-
shore, the Caribbean coast appears to have more attractive prospects than the
Pacific, although the latter is virtually unexplored so far. Further geolo-
gical and geophysical work will be required, both onshore and offshore, in
order to assess the country's full petroleum potential.
Status of Petroleum Exploration
30.       Past History.  Oil exploration began in Costa Rica in the 1920's,
with 90 percent of the onshore exploration effort since that time concentrated
in the region between the Limon Peninsula and the Panama border. The Sinclair,
TJnion and Gulf Oil companies undertook geological studies and seismic work,
drilling approximately 21 wildcat wells and some 31 coreholes between 1920-63.
Two wells, Cocoles 1 and 2, produced some oil shows but not in commercial
quantities. Offshore exploration was done by Elf-Aquitaine (ELF) off the
Caribbean coast between Port Limon and the Nicaraguan border. One well, Moin-l,
was drilled by ELF in 1975 but was abandoned at 2087 m, and the concession
relinquished. According to ELF, the rocks penetrated by Moin-I had a good
content of organic matter, but were geochemically immature, that is, the
strata were not hot enough to generate oil.
31.       Present Situation.  No private foreign companies are operating
in Costa Rica at present and the Government has not yet defined a long-term
strategy to accelerate exploration, including the roles to be played by
public and private institutions. Its objective is to base longer term stra-
tegy decisions on a more up-to-date evaluation of Costa Rica's petroleum
prospects, and also to build up a modest domestic capacity in petroleum
exploration. To do this, RECOPE is undertaking exploration work, including a
200 km seismic survey, in the Talamanca area of the onshore southern Limon
basin with the assistance of PEMEX, at an estimated cost of US$3 million.
PEMEX has helped review existing geological data, define and supervise the
seismic program, and provide training in practical field techniques to RECOPE's
Exploration Department staff. Next critical steps in the PEMEX-assisted
program include location and drilling of an exploration well, and completion
of an assessment of other prospective areas. PEMEX's services, which are
provided on a contractual basis, are being financed through the oil facility
established by the Governments of Mexico and Costa Rica. Under this arrange-
ment, funds equivalent to up to 30 percent of Costa Rica's annual oil import
bill from Mexico are made available at 2 percent interest with 20 years
maturity if they are utilized for development purposes, particularly for
energy-related projects. Finally, discussions are also underway with the IDB
for the financing of a possible marine seismic survey off the Pacific coast.



- 11 -
Institutional and Legal Framework
32.       RECOPE, wholly owned by the C-overnment, is the lead institution in
the petroleum sector. It was founded in 1962 and has a seven-member Board of
Directors headed by a full-time President. In 1978, RECOPE's total assets
were US$58 million equivalent, with net sales of US$66 million equivalent.
Profits were US$3.3 million equivalent in 1978. RECOPE, in addition to its
refining responsibilities (para. 27), is responsible for the storage, transport
and retailing of refined products. In 1980, PECOPE was also made responsible
for petroleum exploration with grant funds provided by the Government. An
Exploration Department was established which includes four main operating
divisions - geology, geophysics, drilling and specialized studies - with
17 professional staff. This Department is still in the start-up phase and
lacks experience in petroleum exploration techniques and operations. Special-
ized professional training is therefore needed, and will be provided under
the proposed project to help build up the department's expertise and complement
the training in field techniques being provided by PEMEX.
33.       A draft petroleum law was prepared by the Costa Rican authorities
with UNDP assistance. While this draft contains elements which would provide
a reasonable framework for development of the petroleum sector, it needs
strengthening, particularly in regard to its provisions for potential produc-
tion sharing arrangements and tax credit issues for U.S.-based companies.
Such issues will be addressed after an up-to-date evaluation of Costa Rica's
petroleum potential is completed, and a strategy for its exploration and
development formulated.
Government Programs and Bank Role
34.       The Government of Costa Rica has placed high priority on the iden-
tification and development of indigenous energy resources in order to reduce
the country's dependence on imported oil. Given the relative scarcity of
technical expertise and financial resources in the country, it has sought
foreign assistance for this purpose. While the country's most promising
onshore area, the Limon Province, has benefitted from past exploration work by
private companies, the geology is complex and further work is warranted. The
Government has established a satisfactory arrangement with PEMEX and the
Government of Mexico in this regard. In the north, along the Pacific coast
and in parts of the Caribbean coast, airborne magnetometer (airmag) survey
coverage is needed to generate modern data on geological prospects. Offshore,
the Caribbean areas, which are expected to be the most promising, could
benefit from further work utilizing modern marine seismic techniques. Building
on work begun with the assistance of the UNDP, projections of energy supply
and demand need to be developed, and an investment program prepared accordingly.
Issues in the refining subsector also need to be addressed in order to better
balance longer term refined product supply and demand. The Government has
requested the Bank's assistance under the proposed project to provide comple-
mentary technical and financial assistance to Costa Rica in these areas as
well as in training professional staff. Survey data to be produced under
the project would be utilized, along with data from the Government's present
program, to prepare an integrated assessment of the country's petroleum
potential (including airmag and seismic surveys, and geochemical and other



- 12 -
specialized studies) in order to define a strategy for its exploration and
development. This would include identification of prospective and non-
prospective areas for definition of a further exploration program, estimates
of investment requirements, alternative approaches to the role of public and
private sector operators, and definition of next critical steps.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project was identified during a visit by a Bank mission
to Costa Rica in May 1980 and appraised in February 1981. Supplementary
data are contained in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington on
May 13 and 14, 1981. The Government delegation was headed by M4r. Pedro Afonso.
Project Objectives and Description
36.       The proposed project would support and strengthen the Government's
initial efforts to evaluate and explore its petroleum resource potential, and
analyze future options in the energy subsector. It would consist of four
main components:
A.   Survey Work
(i) An Airmag survey would be undertaken off the Pacific and parts
of the Caribbean littoral and continental shelf areas and the
northern onshore area. This survey would outline the struc-
tural geology of the area, define the extent and estimate the
thickness of sedimentary basins, and indicate the location and
depth of volcanic rocks in the sedimentary section. It would,
therefore, act as a guide for setting out and interpreting
subsequent seismic surveys. The airmag survey would be made
using modern high-sensitivity equipment. Approximately 15,000
line-kilometers of survey would be flown.
(ii) The Government plans to obtain from ELF its marine seismic
tapes and navigational data made off the northern Caribbean
coast in 1971. This data would be reprocessed under the
project. Depending on the results of the reprocessing, a
decision would be made as to whether or not to survey the area
again. In addition, the continental shelf off the southern
Caribbean coast, south of Port Limon, which was not previously
surveyed, would be shot, using modern multifold common depth
point (CDP) type survey techniques. A minimum of 400 line-
kilometers of marine seismic would be shot, with the precise
amount and location determined by specialized consultants after
review and the reprocessing of the earlier seismic data. In
addition to the possibility of locating suitable areas for
drilling offshore exploration wells, these marine seismic
surveys, which are more precise and cheaper than onshore
seismic surveys, may indicate favourable geological trends
that could subsequently be mapped onshore.



- 13 -
B.   Technical Assistance, Training and Equipment.  The project would
provide (i) 10 intermittant man-months of services for a senior
exploration consultant to assist RECOPE in organizing, reviewing and
interpreting existing and new geological data, in monitoring the
progress of survey and ongoing exploration work, including the
work now underway in Limon, and in preparing a comprehensive,
integrated and up-to-date geological report on the country's
petroleum potential and a strategy for its exploration and develop-
ment; (ii) approximately 15 man-months of short-term consultancies
to carry out specialized studies as required and approved by the
Bank, in such areas as geophysics, paleontology, sedimentology and
geochemical analysis; (iii) training in petroleum exploration
techniques, through short intensive specialized courses mainly in
the United States, of about 20 Costa Rican professionals to build up
a modest technical capability in RFCOPE's Exploration Department;
and (iv) the establishment of a small technical library, and the
purchase of specialized drafting and office equipment for the
Exploration Department.
C.   Refinery Study.  In order to assist RECOPE in the review of longer
term options to meet domestic demand for refined products, the
project would provide 20 man-months of consultant services to under-
take a study of the refining subsector. The first phase would
analyze alternative demand scenarios and alternative approaches for
meeting this demand, including expansion of domestic capacity,
import arrangements and regional approaches. If the analysis should
conclude that domestic capacity expansion is the most attractive
option and is economically justified, then as a second phase a full
feasibility study would be prepared in sufficient detail to provide
the basis for investment and financing decisions.
D.   Energy Planning.  The project would provide about 30 man-months of
consultant services to assist the Secretariat for Energy Sector
Planning to develop an energy data base, prepare specialized energy
sector studies, and develop a national energy plan including an
investment program. Financing would also be made available for
the establishment of a small energy library, purchase of specialized
office equipment, and training of professional staff.
Cost Estimates
37.       The total cost of the project, which is exempt from duties and
taxes, is estimated at IJS$3.9 million equivalent, including contingencies of
US$880,000, or 23 percent of the baseline cost estimate. Price contingencies
for foreign exchange costs were calculated using increases of 9 percent in
1981, 8 percent in 1982 and 7 percent in 1983, and for local costs using
increases of 40 percent in 1981, 30 percent in 1982 and 20 percent in 1983.
Physical contingencies were calculated at 10 percent for all project components,
except for the marine seismic which was calculated at 25 percent, since
precise work quantities can only be specifically determined on the basis of
review and design work to be carried out by specialized consultants.



- 14 -
38.       The average cost of the 25 man-months of internationally recruited
consultants in petroleum exploration activities has been estimated at US$18,000
per man-month, and of the 50 man-months for the energy sector and refinery
studies at IUS$15,000 per man-month, including travel, subsistence and overhead.
These reflect the high level of expertise needed and the premium required by
experienced professionals in the petroleum industry. The proposed loan of
USS3.0 million would finance the foreign exchange cost of the project, or
about 77 percent of the total cost. Local costs totalling US$920,000 would be
borne by the Government.
Project Implementation
39.       The proposed loan would be made to the Republic of Costa Rica.
RECOPE's Exploration Department would be responsible for all matters related
to petroleum exploration, with its Planning and Development Department respon-
sible for the refinery study. The Secretariat for Energy Planning would be
responsible for the specialized energy sector studies assisted by consultants
acceptable to the Bank. The airmag and marine seismic surveys would be carried
out by specialized contractors acceptable to the Bank, and the specialized
studies by consultants acceptable to the Bank. Draft terms of reference for
the senior exploration consultant, the refinery study and the airmag survey
were discussed and agreed upon during negotiations.
40.       Agreement was reached during negotiations that before proceeding
with the Bank financed marine seismic survey off the Caribbean coast, RECOPE
would present to the Bank for approval a specific work proposal, including the
precise quantities and location of the seismic work to be undertaken (Section
2.04(a) of the draft Project Agreement). Agreement was also reached that
any additional seismic surveys to be undertaken off this coast would be
carefully coordinated with the Bank-financed survey (Section 2.04(b) of the
draft Project Agreement). Furthermore, in order to assure a rational sequence
of survey work on the Pacific side, it was agreed that before undertaking
marine seismic work off the Pacific coast, RECOPE would await the results of
the airmag survey financed under the proposed project, and utilize the airmag
data in designing such a seismic survey (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.05).
It was also agreed that terms of reference for the specialized studies to be
undertaken by short-term consultants under the project would be approved by
the Bank (Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement). In addition, it was
agreed that by no later than January 31, 1984, RECOPE would, with the assistance
of the senior exploration consultant, complete a comprehensive, integrated and
up-to-date report on the petroleum prospects of Costa Rica, prepare a proposed
strategy for its exploration and development, and present the report and
proposed strategy to the Bank for comment (Section 2.08 of the draft Project
Agreement). Finally, agreement was reached that the first phase of the
refinery study would be presented to the Bank for review before a decision is
made on proceeding with the full feasibility study for a refinery expansion
(Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement). If the feasibility study is
not warranted, the unused funds would be reallocated to the marine seismic
component as needed.



- 15 -
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing
41.       The Government is proceeding rapidly with exploration efforts in the
Talananca area with PEMEX assistance. The current work schedule calls for the
location of a first exploration well by August 1981. Therefore, in order to
coordinate with these ongoing activities and assist RECOPE in its exploration
efforts, the services of the senior exploration consultant are needed prior to
the estimated date of loan signature, and the Government intends to contract
this consultant as soon as possible. For this reason, advance contracting for
IUS$90,000 and retroactive financing for US$45,000 are included in the proposed
loan to cover RECOPE's expenditures for this consultant after May 30, 1981
and before loan signature (Schedule 1, para. 2(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
42.       The selection of consultants would be in accordance with regular
Bank procedures, with terms of reference, consultants' qualifications and
contracts satisfactory to the Bank. Because of the small amounts involved,
office and library equipment would be procured by local shopping in accordance
with normal Government competitive practice. This practice is satisfactory to
the Bank. Due to the relatively small size of the marine seismic survey,
delays could occur in attracting competent marine seismic firms to undertake
the work, and unit costs could increase due to the mobilization costs incurred
for such a small job. The most effective means of overcoming this problem
would be to contract with qualified firms that are either already operating
near Costa Rica, or could stop by Costa Rica on their way to or from another
job. Therefore, quotations would be sought from such qualified firms. Given
the small size of the airmag contract, limited international tendering would
be utilized, based on quotations from at least three firms.
Disbursements
43.       Disbursements would be made over a period of about three years to
cover 100 percent of the foreign expenditures incurred under the proposed
project. All disbursements will be fully documented.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
44.       RECOPE would keep separate project accounts, which would be audited
by auditors acceptable to the Bank, and would submit audit reports to the Bank
no later than six months after the close of each fiscal year (Section 4.02 of
the draft Project Agreement). RECOPFE would submit semi-annual reports on
project implementation (Section 2.10(b)(iii) of the draft Project Agreement),
and would also prepare and furnish to the Bank a Project Completion Report no
later than six months after the Closing Date for the Loan (Section 2.10(d) of
the draft Project Agreement). Separate accounts would also be kept by SESP
covering energy sector planning activities (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement). SESP would also prepare and furnish to the Bank periodic progress
reports and a completion report on such activities (Section 3.07 of draft
Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
Project Benefits and Risks
45.       The project is designed to provide the technical assistance required
by the Government to maximize benefits from exploration work presently underway
in the country with the assistance of PEMEX, and to provide the complementary
survey work required to complete an up-to-date evaluation of Costa Rica's
petroleum potential and define a strategy for its exploration and development.
This would include identification of prospective and non-prospective areas
for definition of a further exploration program, estimates of investment
requirements, alternative approaches to the role of public and private sector
operators and next critical steps, and would serve as a basis for future
decisions on how best to develop the sector including its priority vis-a-vis
other energy subsectors. Specialized energy sector studies would assist the
Government in evaluating policy options and developing an investment program
for the energy sector. In addition, the refinery study would provide a
much-needed framework for the Government to review alternatives for meeting
refined product demand.
46.       The proposed project has no major risks.  However, there could be
delays in obtaining services of technical consultants, which are needed
quickly in order to work in parallel with ongoing activities of PEMEX. This
factor, however, should be minimized by the proposed flexibility in contracting
needed expert services. There is also some risk that effectiveness of the
loan could be delayed given the need for Assembly ratification. However this
should be minimized by the priority attached by the Government to this project,
as well as its relatively small size.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMNENTS AND AUTHORITY
47.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Costa Rica and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and RECOPE, and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern of loans for
petroleum technical assistance projects. Their more important features
have been included in Part IV and summarized in Section III of Annex III of
this report.
48.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
49.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 1, 1981



- 17 -                                                 AMEXI
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
COSTA RICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COSTA RICA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (T0BDAND SQ. KM.)                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )
IOIAL              50. 7
AGRICULTURAL       2D. S                                 MOST REcENT             MIDDLE INCOIE            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE tb    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEASI           EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   430.0        730.0    1810.0                    1562.9                    2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION iE1 CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      233.0        421.0      564.0                   1055.9                    1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        1.2         1.7        2.1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36. 5         39.7       42. 5                    63.4                       53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPU,,ATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         3.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            5.0
YEAR SIATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2065
POPULAT ION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KMi.                        24.0        34.0       41.0                     28.1                       77.2
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      85.0         93.0      102.0                     81. 7                     129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          47.5         46. 1      39.7                     41.4                       30.6
i5-b4 YRS.                          49.5         50.7       56.7                     54.7                      61. 1
65 YRS. AND ASOVE                    3.0          3.2        3.6                      3.9                        8. 2
POPULATION GROVTE RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.7         3.4        2.5                      2. 7                       1.6
URBAN                                4. 2/c      4.2        3.3                      4.1                        3. 3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       47.0        35.0       28.0                     34.8                       22.8
CRUSDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      10.0          7.0       5.0                      8.9                        8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.5         2.8        1.7                      2.5                        1.5
FASIILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        19.0       22.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       67.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           85.0         99.0      114.0                    106.9                     113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    98.0        108.0      114.0                    107.4                     124.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           53.0         59.0       62.0                     65.6                       91.0
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         28.0        32.0       36.0                     33.7                       39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       10.0         4.6        3.0                      8.4                        4. 3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.0          66.8       70.0                     63.1                       67.8
INFANT HORIALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             85. Od      70.0       28.0                     66.5                       55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        74.0       77.0                     65.9
URBAN                                 .         9. 9.0     95.0                     80.4
RURAL                                ..         59.0       62.0                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        52.0       93.0                     62.3
URBAN                                ..         66.0       94.0                     79.4
RURAL                                 ..        43.0       93.0                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2600.0       1630.0    1390.0                    1849.2                     1030. 1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       1700.0      1690.0      453.0                   1227.5                      929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 ..       253.0      288.0                    480.3                      289.7
URBAN                                ..        100.0
RURAL                                ..       4440.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        28.0       29.0                                                17.0
HOOSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.8td       5.6        5.6
URBAN                                5. 4..
RURAL                                6. O0d       ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROGM
TOTAL                                1. 57d      1.3        1.4
URBAN                                1.3/d        ..
RURAL                               1. 7d         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF EWELLINGSI
TOTAL                               55.Od         ..       59.O*-
URBAN                               93.5d         ..       87.0e
RURAL                              32.0/d         ..       37.0e



- 18 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
COSTA RICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COSTA RICA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 96.0        110.0     111.0                      99.7                     105.9
MALE                  97.0       110.0      111.0                    101.0                      109.3
FDIALE                95.0       109.0      110.0                     99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 21.0         28.0      44.0                      34.4                      64.0
MALE                  20.0        27.0       41.0                     33.5                       71. 1
FEMALE                21.0        28.0       48.0                     34.7                      56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  19.0          10.0       19.0                     38.2                      28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            26.0         30.0      33.0                     30.5                       29.4
SECONDARY                          22.0         17.0      20.0                      14.5                      26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..          ..       90.0                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         14.0         23.0      32.0                      43.0                      84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         62.0         75.0      73.0                     245.3                     192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.4         58. 0     76. 0                     84.2                     118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  92. 0          ..       88.0                     63. 3                     93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                       ..                       5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       375.4        527.0      719.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   16.4         19.4      25. 1                     22.2                      30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              51.2         42.0      29.0                      37.1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 18.5         20.0      23.0                      23.5                      29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.3         30.7       32.2                     31.5                      40.9
MALE                                 50.4         49.9       51.5                     48.9                      55.9
FEMALE                                9.9         11.2       12.6                     14.0                      26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6          1.3        1.3                      1.4                       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.0          23.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  58.6          50.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5. 7          5.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.0          14.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      300.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      189.0                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     825.0                     474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     471.0                     332.5                     385.8                         q
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
anong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estinate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1950-63;  /d 1963;  /e Percent of subscribers.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 19-
ANNEX I
-Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL NiCATORI
Note-   Although the dataar  dn.ee tre. sources  .o.eta11  judged the nest outhott-ti-e    d reliable, it should else be o,ted thou  heby ear not he inte-
eatrnhl  uopsohe traseof helak u  5taOadicod defeitioss. cod u-o-Pto used by differeer u-tutri- in  oluigtedt.   h   oeae   oe
th.ebes, usful to  oui          reso -,girue,tediuae steeds, andIhareseree  eethc mjdrdifereneseetedetctot-ee
The  eeet  gop   r ,,        l) tIc ue,u  uuurr  lt-p of the seler          -aty and (2) al ...sit  grou.p with tomewher high. cc -tnoge iscois  thon the ca...try group
ufthsujctotr(c tou   o   CytlS_pl_ Ill fepoter gop where 'Middl    oe North  ttica oud Middle taut" it chute  hecus  of streg-
s-i-o1-1efrlafltis'.it  hth  ref--u  getp ds-  the aveeges are popoletico weighted e tl.ebeic seer  f-c each idi-at- cod shov  oily ale  a
leat bt h    of  eAr rutio  Or a grop hSdtafo                          theedct.Nietn c--erge of cotee   so   h  tdrtc   eed  cc,  tInealbllyo
daaco   s  u  a  un,suto  es   e  urosd  oetrsber5eu   ueldistet  atAt.TesIceeesaets   usfl  sonyregse  au
of on  indi-or-  aoti,se  emeg the  -outry and refernc  groeP..
LANDl AREA (ebhu  ed   2An.l0o                                                                       tiattu  -e  Phraitino     Peaso    ioifea bf cubec  to practicing phy-
Total - Teesi sertac  see  _upislo  Sed  ce  e  inland nae.ceequalifited fe      ola   colo   norlybo
Asiuirl-Etiaeo  eIiutrlan   nd trpesiy   rpnsely                          y          eo   .i            . e  Mcina Perso   - Pepalation dicided by  -unh- ot practicing
for crepe. Pesu-., sarb    a-d kt.i..re  gardens or It lie fallen; 1N77 dara.               ml   n   eaegant   cns   rrs  nuse, Idseiste..s serene.
peeeto .s Nos-ita1 Ned -  est,  rsetn.lcl .oulto   (octal,
GNP PEN CAPITA (US$) - SGNP per oupite         ae  atcacetmalt prices, cal-                      orhe, end  -era) divided hy their  -npecti-e nunhe  of hospital. beds
related by ear oor       torhed so Werid Nash Atles  (1977-7N basis) ; 1900,                  avai.bla in public end pri-etn gaern1 ned sperialised hospital endi-
10 70, aed  i1979dote.                                                                        hbhilitatice renters       -Pi. gopil  ace astblishm..sts peensetly scoffed
by etI. ine one phyolieio. fEtablishmote providing priecipelip.. testd al
tElERtY COfNSUMPTION PER CAPITA - demos5 to-uprio  of  os nil energ  (easi                       tore or  net ioeludd.  oReS1 hospiosl, h-sove, totlude health end mediial
sod lignito, pnroau,  sscl See nd hydc-, -ooie- aed geetherma  cisc-                           .e.enre  ot p-ranetly staffed by a phynti-e thee byandiaests,
seicity) ii tkilgra-  of  -on  su-i-l-t pee .a.pita; 1960. l970, end 197N                       ecse  midwife, etc.) shie  offer is-peti_t  _coendatio  end provIde
dae.                                                                                           iliitd  -sge of nedirs  fcliis            Pa F   a-  ris  perpeses urha  hospi-
rain ielede WeMN  prIncipal genera -     d oprid iedhopiais, and esesI
PPCIPNATION ANl VITAL STATISTICS                                                                 h.,l     .I-tt                  ,pt.-         d,l-         t.t         -
Total Pooeltion, Mid-ieee (miilie...( - Au of Jolp 1; 1060, l9P0, ood 197                   Adiasi..t. pee gscitas Ned - Total nosier of admission  to or discharges
dnta.                                                                                       fees hospitals dicided by ths nobec of hads.
UbAne "Puutiase   cerce-  of totn1  - Rtei  of aehee so coral population;
differen  definitieen  of orb. etscen   ey a c  coparability of data                    HONUNINGI
amog cneries  107.1971. andI)  dan.                                                 Avergeurn et. fHu..eheId(psnsnehuhod  - totol. urban, and   -el-
P.P.l.ft  _1                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A h ...sbold cnit   f eg-p of isO icd   ho sh-r  living quat-o
P     L.lrent  yea  2000 - Current pnyultlo   prjetiosae ha-d 00 19N                  and there main   as   A hoarder or looter may orna  cot ho i-ldd in
totalpouato   byaesd se  and their  motality aed fertility rates,                         she house.hold for ettinticl.  purys-..
level, and fonair li aePe.so   otbgiling at 77.5 year.  The pera-                         dwellings, respctvicly.  Isoelliogo  -   a.de -e-p _oaot atructooes and
meters for fertility earn sine hau. these  eonis essuning decline in                       ncutdpon
fertility  ceerdiog to Itos.       ee   n   atlsl    lnigpconse                          sest   ietce    oreto   eli,s      ee.ehe   e   ue 
E-ch counscy is thenasga-         s   fisnnn  cembnacino   f moetaMlilty.                 Coouree - Owaiegs sic-h elctiitd              r  tie    uarosspecntg
end f-rtlity creodo for p-je-ti-o p-rpases.                                               o   oe,uhe   n   ueldolt eroie
Stationr  t-rultict -loserstionacy pepulattee there is no growth since                            t1    b.,-             1l-
the bieth ctst to eqel to thn death rae,an  else the'g   mtr-t-rr-                    EDUCATION
mae  oers-          Pt T is ac hievdol ff ta   etilityrtes danIn- te                    Adjeated EtorlaatPse
the relce     -o es  of unit oet -op-ed-tie  rate, whes oahgnrro                           rmr   c l-t Rtotl   aeen   o metee                      e,minadfml
estimotnd on the basi  of"the Projected chneacteiis ofteppulantes                           prinary orbool-aga populetie;nral  icoe   hlde   gd61
Y__tein the year 2000, sed the tat  of decline of tfetili   case torplace-                    years boo  dijetred f or different lengths of primay  de..etion; for
Inr  tetio..ary pepalatino is rea..bed - The y-e  whe.t estionacy popolatien                ninrtsa  pepileaeAssso   bt  the off11   Inte  seod age.                    ..
siac ham been reac.hed.                                                                   E....odary acheePl - total, male aed fenal  - Competed as above; see.unds
total sine
Petst Tm  egec.trutul. lssd - Computed as obeys fec ngcielt-l land                           fo2oc7lednd.;                                      p....           .g- l
OlP.V .                                                                                   ontiemal e-cellaet (percnt of  snda) - Pentiaal institnti...
Pesolatios Aee Scr-ccur  (percet).  -Children  (0-14 peace).  crhtiag-sgs 715-                   include sebia,Idsra,  rohrperm    hich epeat  ind.pe-
64 years), and rt.tid (61 years and eve) as percetages of aid-yec p0pt-                        detly ora  dpsetmts o.f secooda'Y institutions.
lerteie; 1960, 1970, and  1(7   ec.pou-tbe    ere- pimr,adecdcy- Total students.. liee d In
Peculti-s trenh Rate (foren,  - tote1 - cAsual grocth races of total mid-                        primar  and  s           1-d1yevl  dtvided by cebera of roachers is tha
..eppuain  ft or9INS-60, 1906-70, and 1970-7N.                                         coce-p-rdinglels
PFewaie  trenh hos  (pse-nt) - erban - Ann..I goeth rtes. of urbas pOpO                        Adelt lir....ny ears Ceers-t  - Literate ade1ts (able to  a.d end write)
at ill,fo IL191-6lt. Ih9I-O)l, and iNT-7N                                                      anaptenag   f             1a adele popelevien snd 15 yese  andnco
iCude   is   aete   hnad) _A Anneali-o  births Poe tho..sand of mid-ye-
Cpopalattos; 1906t  1070, end 1970 data.                                                 CORSUMN'TION
Crde leach Rare  peer thonsed) - An.uel deschs Per thssand of mid-yea                       Pa......er Car  (per thoosad ...cIciatio) - Fesseg-c oars compriseses
papalation    1061,9107, and 197(B deco,                                                     ears searing less that sight persos;  _acldes  ehlo has  hease  and
C-os  Rspcodurtio  Stars-oAv ge nuber of daughtses s coma  will hear in                        mllitmr  ehcls
hoe normal rerdortice period if she coperis....s presen.t ags-p-ific Pfor-                  adi  Rciver  (per thoss.end poseltier) - Allptype   f --oi-es fre rado
etlry   ate;  sualp  lo-year.. soeges ending in 1906, 1907, and 1977.                 Foaeat   o   aaelpbir pso thend  1pplto;acdeuni
Poilo Pl,illao- Aoepters           .. Anua  (theusecds)t- AnnualI  ab-r of ...espters        consad rece.ivers in ocetree  ned so yaro shoe engistrati-  f' radio.e
o:f birth-cotrol dovicos.  undr .npces of naionel f aily planing progrom.                     waa in efface; data far r...t yoest may cue be  op l  sines meL
Pasho P"et"n  -        ..er  ireccet of macrind comae  -Percetage of maried                    retr..tin  bholishad licenmeng,
sona  ro  child-boating age (15-44 yese) who tee bietb-rontro1 daices cc                   TV R.,,,,.g  -r thousan.d populatIo) - TV ro..sivere fec bro-dras  en
all maried we_e  I  ease age group,                                                          generalpulic pee thoe.ea,d popultion:  -ncldos enlicc....d TV r--i-es
FNOD AND NU7TRITCION                                                                             in   -tunrra  and is year  shoe engairt-io  of PTV sets se  to.  ffaet.
Inde  of Peed Prodactint pcr Ceciisa f1960-1.de.tllO)-Ida of         -ccpita anua-i..I                    dal  ga-Pca-  hnsetssae'               dsio    as ,1,19 apeo  ita  pe-
producino   l   on   omriis   Prdoioomludesnd'and feed ne                                     iaie    eoed  piarl   n  cooiggeeolsafI  stendidee
in os calandar ycar basis.  Commoitio cover primary goods (sg. eagenes                       to be "daily" if is appears at boost fou  times ewank.i
instead of sugar) whIch _aedible sed cotain  sttient  (e.g. fff.. and                     Cinem  Annel_Attond-se  fe  Cariva ca  Tea-Ran-a.d a- sha number o
tea ac  cocludsd).  Igg-g-r  production of seth country is based 05                          tikets noId daring she  er  inclu~ding adniote-  it deire-innmmama
natioal eereg  prenecprice weights  1961-AS, 1070, and 107f data.                       d bi..t.
Fe  cPit  sal  of cao n(porten   fcst..snests) - Cempeesd fro-n   oieaia
esargy aqaivalce cf oat feed  epp Ie..available in res.tat  Par capita                LA     FOC
per dsp.  Available sopplias ceprisa dem.estit prodecti-s,inports less                  Pesal Labr  en   (thousands)   E- Iooicallp eurIos persons, Including
tnpri, and cbhngs  in  -cku.  Nat spplies  -nolde anima  Psd, seeds,                    are  forte  end unmlyed bus  .s.ldihg..useios, stodets, etc.
qoentitiro  used i  food precesoing,and bones in discihetien.  tiaqeir-  Dsf is1iti.Ie-n    .. inerns tutrieoeoaoo_empoobhi; 1060, 1907  and
mescm atintsd by FAt binned on physiological see ds foe  --1ma  asi-               100dea
vity ned health cossidaritEg   oionet tampfat_orel, bdy natob:ta,                               d eae(ecns      sselbo   otttp-oesso   oallbrfre
sad andlrihttibnt o. f population, end ellening 10 pecat fo  nst   t                    Ag ui setre L(cescese)-tjq-.ty    ..in
behn-oheld leuel; 1961-65, 1907, and 1977 data,f:hiS. Mettg- Lao  fore1  Inb fooming,                                                             ,197 foesr,dboatin  edt
Po .cPit. -uoply of petein  (gram   per da)- Protein  -eteo  of psernsPita              Issry(oret    Labor ferns in .oing, cons..truction  macof-t-"ig
ne .apply of food per day.  70cr supply of fund is dafisd as abva   te-                  -    l~tit             tt    .           P - g   ft.            -    t      90
qeirometr  for all  -ooteirs enteblichd by USIA proide f o  mniu                           1970 ned 1070 data.t
allI....e of 60 grot    of total preteic pee dy end 20 gram   of aslaal and               o-tciapaco    ae(crnr       oa,maeadfml  - Pactiipetien or
pI.. prtei, of  hich 11 grans shoId be  sla  pretcie.  These stand-                      aetivity rates-eecopeted anstatl, male, and femal  loortrb                 a
-d, see Ien-   tur rhvs  of 75 gene  of total protein and 23 ora-  of                                                                                       .._pt-
aciml p_oti  as .anaveg fu  the wvl,  proposedby T'AO in the Thied                         pe60scenges of total,dmain anh1e. tl  pouitiocofaip oaaanrsspsefltivelp
W.ol  Food iceray; 1061-65, 107  ted 107dt.16,17'InI01dt.Tee  r   l'   stcpccrtsrfern
Per -pcits crotcie se-pl  fro   eia  an  d )ls  - Protein supply of feed ds                   ge -mnnarrofetpputi,adlngietad.Afnns-
manes se  f eon teienlsnc
ricd fom   nimla  ndpulse  in grasprdy   01h,1907  one 1077 data.   gEoneie Dapeadanr  Rato    Ratio of popua.tion under 11 and 6S andcn
Child (ages 1-A) MortaltAno(errosr) - An 1 dearbs Per thaassn  in                              to tba coco1 labor feree.
ago g-ep 1-4 ps-e, in ohlldeen In this age groep; ten most dvalepiag aces-
trtes fats deci-ed from life sablss; 1060, 1907 and 1077 Oats. INiCOtE DISTRIBUTION
nthf,Th                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~Poceasiane ef Private Income (both in csadbind) - Receive,    ynle
or birt h; lOl, 1907  end  90Ndare.
Isf net Mortality Rate (pee thousan,d) - Annea  doaths of infantsuder onepee               POVERTY ARGENT GROUPS
of Psg  pe  Ibu_n   live birth.                                                           Estimatd Absoluse Povrt  InoeItl(S   e   0pt)-thsad rural -
horss  o  ateAstr  ecrsatofpenlaten  -  ota,  rba, nd  ues  -Absolute pov-ty Incm   eon  is tho   rome loon. below  'hi", a mdsima
Nubro   epe(total, oche, andmel  with          . .osmbia access to safe              __riiomlyasut  dIspa    n                       o-food  aquirmets is net
watr sppy  lcldas r--ad     sufaewtr   rutsed hat  e-etomi-std                         sff-cdble.
water ser         tha tif-c  protetedbIr       s  srns  end smeitarywnlie.)               ftEtimated Relativo  Pn.sty Incom  Lnl (US$ pen capita) - ache asd canal
prscaa   ofthal  respeceep_            oltlss   I  on seha  seo a peblia                    Rua-aev    oety  ine                -lve  Is one-third of ac'erg  ~,s  cPit
futai  or otes-dp-t located not mor  cha200 macrefrm.            h,,,. map be              parsenalIsreso o  the. retry.  Urbas. leve  Is dervet           a    b -te 1ea
ooedsr_do   heleg nitbin ec.....sble aces ofneathous.  Is rura  .r.a                        bea2wth adjustmae for higbnocot o.         f lrinig in ceseb-     ee
dont hee to speed a disprepeetieate part o6 rho day is fetching the                          andcoa  -  aree  o  populto   (rs   ndrrl  wose  e ltape"
fomilp'e natsneerdn.                                                                         ____
rrl-Sneofpele(oa,uban, sed rura) srvdbynnt
dispoa  as. percetages of thei -rcepoc-i- populatiose.-  Isceta die--                                                         geenead Sncia1 late Divislee
Pe..l maY iolude rAn ealocnnd disposal1, sieb  -c sitht treesmati                                                      Etooir daeayips   end Prejeeti... Naparctst
of bemasecrts  and  csswtrby wats-hbrne apstem   - the ese of                                                                                  tb 18
pie prioies end simlariealtom



- 20 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 6
COSTA RICA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:   2.163 million (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita:   $1810 (1979)
Amount              Average Annual Increase (%)                        Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)
Indicator                            (million US dollars          (at constant 1966 prices)                               (at current prices)
at current prices)
1980 c/             1960-70    1970-75   1975-80                 1960         1970         1975         1980 a/
NATIONAL ACCOtlNTS
Gross domestic product  b/                   4,583                    6.5         6.4        5.4               100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0
Agriculture                                  811                   5.7         3.4         1.8                26.0         22.5         20.3          17.7
Industry                                  1,407                    9.4         9.6        6.2                 19.7         24.2         27.4         30.7
Services                                  2,365                    5.7         6.1         6.2                54.3         53.3         52.3          51.6
Consumption                                  3,942                    6.3         4.3        6.6                87.3         86.2          86.7         86.0
Gross investment                             1.104                    7.1         6.5       10.5                17.5         20.5          21.6         24.1
Exports of goods and NFS                     1,200                  10.3          8.2        5.6                21.4         28.2          30.4         26.2
Imports of goods and NFS                    1,664                   10.0          3.7       11.0                26.2         35.0         38.7         36.3
Gross national savings                         450                    4.1         4.1        0.0                12.9         13.0          10.6          9.8
Amount                                                                 Composition of Merchandise Tide (%)
(million US dollars                                                                  (at current orices)
at current prices)                                                        19S0         1970         1975         1980
MERCH4NDISE TRAJE                               1980
Merchandise exports                          1,017.1                10.7          5.4        4.3               100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0
Primary                                     645.8                  5.2         4.9        1.6                 94.0         76.9         71.2         60.6
Manufactures                                371.3                 23.1          7.9      12.2                  6.o         23.1         28.8          39.4
Merchandise imports                          1,530.9                 10.2         1.7        8.9               100.0        100.0         100.0        100.0
Consumer eoods                              371.9                 16.8        -6.9       13.6                 36.1         32.7         20.7         24.3
Petroleum                                    124.8                 7.0         0.9       -2.3                  5.4          3.9         10.6          8.2
Machinery & equipment                       463.2                 10.0         4.3       12.7                 23.3         24.8         25.5         30.3
Other                                       571.0                  7.8         6.4        6.3                 35.2         38.6         43.3         37.3
197S           1977           1978            1979           1980
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
GDP deflator                                                               85.5           100.0           107.5          118.4          141 1
Exchange rate                                                               8.57             8.57           8.57           8.57           9. 1O
Export price index                                                         80.2           100.0            96.9          102.2          115.2
Import price index                                                         95.0           100.0           106.6          122.9          135.8
Terms of trade index                                                       84.4           100.0            90.9           83.2           84.8
As % GDP
(at current prices)
1970          1975            1980
PUBLIC FINANCE d/
Turrent re-venue                                            25.3           30.4
Current expenditure                                         21.9           28.3
Surplus (.) or deficit (-)                                   3.4            2.1           -2.2
Capital expenditure                                          4.9            7.8           11.4
1960-70        1970-79         1975-80
OTHER INDICATCtS
GNP growth rate (%)                                                         6.o            6.1               5.2
GNP per capita growth                                                       2.4             3.1              2.3
ICC:                                                                        3.0            3.7               5.1
Marginal savings rate                                                       0.2             0.1              0.0
Import elasticity                                                           1.5            0.6               2.1
a/ At constant 1977 prices.
b/ At market prices.
c/ Estimates.
d/ Consolidated non-financial public sector.                                                                                                      May 21, 1981



- 21. 
Annex I
Page 5 of 6
COSTA RICA - BAIANCE OF PADITS. EXTElNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Ponulation:  2.163 million (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita: $1,810 (1979)
Actual                                                                   Projected
1970       1976       1977       1978        1979       1980 I/               1981       1982       1983       1984        1985
BALANCE OF PAYdENTS
Net exports of goods & services                                -80       -215       -241        -379       -578       -671                  -312       -367       -499        -655       -791
Exports of goods & services                                  279        713        977        1041       1122       1220                  1360       1584       1831        7102       2417
Imports of goods & services                                  359        928       1218        1420       1700       1891                  1672       1951       2330        2757       3208
Net transfers                                                    6          14         16         17         12          17                   19         21          23         26         30
Curr-nt account balance                                        -74       -201       -226        -363       -566       -654                  -293       -346        -476       -630       -761
Direct private investment                                       26         61          63         47         42          20                   -          -           20         30         40
MLT loans (set)                                                  9        157         250        259        328         290                  -37         138        319        484        789
Official                                                     12         67         71         107         77        122                   189        231        253         199        178
Private                                                     -3          90        179         152        251        169                 -226         -93         66        285         611
Other carit.l                                                   27         43          20         30         96         139                  125        208         157        156          7
Change in re-erves (- - inc.)                                   12        -59       -108          27        100        205                   205         -          -20        -40        -75
International reserver                                          16        119        227         200        100       -105                  -310       -310       -290        -250       -175
Reserves as months of imports                                    1          2           2          2          1         -1                    -2         -2         -1          -1         -1
Actual
1970       1976       1977       1978        1979       1980 !/
GROSS DISBURSEdEN3T5
Official grants                                                                                4          -
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                                                              30        158         239        386        303        480
Concessional                                                                                  10         11          11         33         47          58
Bilate-al                                                                                    7          5          3          16         23         21
IDA
Other mnltilaterai                                                                           4          6          8          17         24         37
Non-co-c.ssio.a.                                                                              19        146        228         353        457        422
Official export credits                                                                      -         19         16         31          16         29
IBlD                                                                                                    22       24         22          21         32
Other multilateral                                                                          4          25         30         35          12         33
Private                                                                                     10         81        158         265        408        328
EXTERNAL DEBT f/
Debt outstanding and disbursed                                                               134        536        735         954       1279       1643
Official                                                                                   96         306        380        493         567        684
IBRD                                                                                     36        104         124        141        156         181
IDA                                                                                       5           5          5
Other                                                                                    55        197         251        347        406         498
Private                                                                                     38        230        355        461         712        959
Undisbursed Debt                                                                              95        466        560        671         603        771
DEBT SERVICE f/
PubIlictebt swvic. payets                                                                     28         68         87        236         255        251
Interest       ,                                                                           107         28         36         63          80        142
PaY-ets as % exprt                                                                            10         10          9          22         23         21
Payments as S 0NP                                                                              3          3          3           7          7          5
Average interest rate on new loans (.                                                          5.1        7.2        7.3         8.6       11.3       10.5
Official                                                                                    5.1         5.7        5.6        6.3         6.3        -
Private                                                                                     6.7         8.1        8.6       10.3        12.7        -
Average maturity of new loane (years)                                                         23.1       13.8       12.3        15.3       11.1       13.7
Official                                                                                   28.2       24.3        19.5       24.3       15.7         -
Private                                                                                     7.0        6.5         6.8        8.7        9.6        -
As 7 of Debt Octstandinx
at End of Most Recent
Tear (1979)
DEBT STRICTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (6)
Matories due within 5 years                                                                                       17.2
Maturities due  ithi  10 yers                                                                                     70.7
Interest structure of debt outstanding (6)
Interest due within first year                                                                                     7.S
J Estimate.
Not including the private sos-guaranteed debt.
Not available.
... Less than 0.05 percent.
Note: Details may not add to total due to rtunding.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 6
OFFICIAL LENDING TO COSTA RICA BY MAJOR LENDERS AND SECTORS, 1970-1980
(In Millions of Constant FY80 US Dollars) 1/
IBRD/IDA     IDB     CABEI 2/      AID       TOTAL
Transport                      142.3      157.7    181.6            -     481.6
Power                          117.1     318.5      89.1            -     524.7
Telecommunications              94.0          -      5.7            -      99.7
Education                       12.4       69.9     22.4            -     104.7
Health                             -       54.2        -         11.1      65.3
Housing                            -          -    120.4            -     120.4
Agriculture                     43.5       70.2     25.4         80.0     219.1
Manufacturing                   17.5       20.9      5.0            -      43.4
Urban Development               21.2          -        -         17.1      38.3
Other                           26.0       14.1     13.3         17.9      71.3
474.0     705.5    462.9        126.1   1,768.5
I/   IBRD commitment deflator used for price adjustments.
2/   Excludes operations with the private sector.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COSTA RICA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (April 30, 1981)
Loan or
Credit
Number    Year      Borrower           Purpose            Bank    IDA /1  Undisbursed
(less cancellation)
Sixteen loans and credits fully disbursed                 118.2   5.5           -
915       1973      Costa Rica         Education            6.2       -        0.2 /2
1006      1974      ICE                Telecommunica-
tions              23.5       -         0.9
1126      1975      ICE                Power               41.0       -        2.8
1187      1976      Costa Rica         Highways            39.0       -       18.3
1410      1977      Costa Rica         Agriculture
Credit             18.0       -         2.7
1491      1977      Costa Rica         Urban Transport   16.5         -        8.7
1532      1978      ICE                Telecommunica-
tions              10.6       -         3.6
1599      1978      Banco Central      Industrial Credit 15.0         -       15.0
1713      1979      ICE                Power               34.0       -       32.0
1845 /3   1980      Costa Rica         Highways            30.0               30.0
1935 /3   1981      AyA                Water Supply        26.0               26.0
Total                                          378.0    5.5        140.2
of which has been repaid                      55.2    0.5
Total now outstanding                          322.8    5.0
Amount sold                     11.1
of which has been repaid    10.9               0.2       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                 322.6    5.0
/1   Excluding exchange adjustments.
/2   Final disbursements are being prepared; a small balance may remain and be
cancelled.
/3   Not yet effective.
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (April 30, 1981)
Year       Obligor                              Type of Business   Loan   Equity  Total
1963-76  Productos de Concreto S.A.             Concrete products   0.4    0.2        0.6
1978     Scott Paper Company de
Costa Rica S.A.                     Paper Products        2.5      -      2.5
1979     Maricultura S.A.                       Shrimp Farming        1.4    0.7      2.1
Total gross commitments                                     4.3    0.9      5.2
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                      0.4    0.2      0.6
Total now held by IFC                                       3.9    0.7      4.6
Total undisbursed                                           0.5       -     0.5



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 1006   Fourth Telecommunications Project:  US$23.5 Million Loan of
June 14, 1974; Effective Date: November 19, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project is almost completed without cost overruns. Procurement
arrangements were completed at the end of 1979 but delays in delivery of goods
necessitated the extension of the Closing Date to June 30, 1981 in order to
permit final disbursements on small items.
Loan 1126   Fifth Power Project:  US$41.0 Million Loan of June 16, 1975;
Effective Date: December 16, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The four generation components have been completed and commissioned.
Extension of the transmission system was delayed up to 21 months as a result of
late equipment deliveries and slow procurement, but has now been completed.
The load dispatch center, which has been delayed by about three years because
of slow deliveries, is expected to be completed by the end of 1981.
Loan 1187   Fourth Highway Project:  US$39.0 Million Loan of January 14, 1976;
Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The construction of the San Jose-Siquirres road and a branch
road is over half completed, approximately two years behind schedule. Tardy
contractor performance has largely been responsible for this delay. The
Government has acted to help step up the pace of construction, which has begun
to improve recently. Construction should be completed by early 1983. Procure-
ment of vehicles and other equipment is completed, and the technical assistance
in transport planning is nearing its conclusion.
Loan 1410   Agricultural Credit and Development Project:  US$18.0 Million
Loan of June 2, 1977; Effective Date: January 23, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The main part of the project, agricultural loans, has been fully
committed, ahead of the scheduled date. Construction of seed production,
multiplication and storage facilities is now underway. On the feeder road
component, equipment has been received and the road improvement works are now
being accelerated. The Planning Ministry encountered difficulties in preparing
a rural development project for the Atlantic zone, which led to the transfer
of this responsibility to ITCO, the Land Colonization Institute.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Loan 1491   San Jose Urban Transport Project:  US$16.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1977; Effective Date:  March 3, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981.
The Ministry of Public Works is now making satisfactory progress
in carrying out the civil works after a slow start. Construction of the
radial routes is underwav, and equipment procurement is proceeding, both on
an agreed revised schedule.
Loan 1532   Fifth Telecommunications Project:  US$10.6 Million Loan of
March 23, 1978; Effective Date: March 9, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. ICE has already
awarded contracts for 89 percent of the loan.
Loan 1599   Industrial Credit Project:  US$15.0 Million Loan of July 12, 1978;
Effective Date: September 15, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The Central Bank has established the Industrial Development Fund
and provided it with USS15 million of capital and the required staff. Due
to delavs in obtaining Assembly ratification the Loan was not declared effective
until September 1980. Since then implementation has been delayed pending
agreement on a revised on-lending rate. Substantial progress has been made on
this matter and we expect full agreement to be reached in the near future,
thus enabling sub-loans to be approved and disbursements to begin.
Loan 1713   Sixth Power Project:  US$54 Million Loan of June 25, 1979;
Effective Date: September 16, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
ICE has completed detailed designs and technical specifications
for all project components except the San Isidro-Rio Claro transmission line.
Equipment and material purchases are also proceeding satisfactorily. In
addition, the Bank has agreed to expand the scope of the project to include
(a) amendine the voltage of the San Isidro-Rio Claro transmission line from
138 kv to 230 kv; (b) adding a stepdown transformer at the Alajuelita substation;
(c) modifving the Garita substation; (d) expanding the Arenal substation
(financed under the Fifth Power Proiect); and (e) improving the Alajuela
distribution network (R81-22).
Loan 1845   Fifth Highway Project:  US$30 Million Loan of May 27, 1980;
Terminal Date for Effectiveness: June 30, 1981; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1984.
The Assemblv has not yet ratified this loan which necessitated
an extension of the effectiveness deadline. At last report, the appropriate
committee of the Assembly had approved the loan which was scheduled for an
early decision by the full legislature. The Ministry of Public Works has
also requested legislative approval of a national road reclassification law.
Meanwhile, the road rehabilitation planning section has been established,
and the rehabilitation work program and the list of road maintenance and
workshop equipment to be procured under the loan have been approved by the
Bank.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1935   San Jose Water Supply Project:  US$26 Million Loan of January 14,
1981; Terminal Date for Effectiveness: July 17, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
Effectiveness of this project has been delayed pending Assembly
ratification of co-financing arrangements. Meanwhile consultants have been
selected to review final designs.



- 27 -                             ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
COSTA RICA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a)  Project prepared by:                RECOPE with the assistance
of consultants
(b)  First presentation to the           November 1980
Bank:
(c)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   February 2, 1981
(d)  Negotiations completed:            May 14, 1981
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:    October 1, 1981
SECTION II: SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None.
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS
Agreement was obtained during negotiations that:
(a) Before proceeding with the offshore Caribbean coast marine seismic
surveys, RECOPE would present to the Bank for approval its proposals
for the specific work to be undertaken, including precise quantities
and location (para. 40);
(b)  Any additional seismic surveys to be undertaken off the Caribbean coast
would be carefully coordinated with the Bank-financed survey in this
area (para. 40);
(c) RECOPE, with the assistance of the senior exploration consultant would
prepare and present to the Bank for comment, no later than January 31,
1984, a report on the country's petroleum potential and a strategy for
its exploration and development (para. 40);
(d) Terms of reference for specialized studies to be carried out by
consultants financed under the project would be presented to the Bank
for approval (para. 40);
(e) Marine seismic work in the offshore Pacific area would not be undertaken
by the Government until the results of the airmag survey in that area are
available, and the design of the seismic work would take these airmag
results into account (para. 40); and
(f) The results of the first phase of the refinery study would be presented
to the Bank for review before a decision is made on whether to proceed
with work on the second phase, i.e. the full feasibility study (para. 40).






/ak~' ie tV orag"'               N   I  C  A  R  A  G  U  A                                                                                        COSTA  RICA
/                             09    I                                                         V             ,i                         PETROLEUM EXPLORATION
~~~0O~/ --                                                                       N _                                                  / , 
-. ..                                                                                     0   Exploration wells (dry)
,i'                                                                                                I                                         A     Oil refinery
I --5 200 m.etor depth contours
Geology;
Basem~ent
0A5?   5  O                       \  OX                       - .- Interrational boundaries
N
"' t5   t'  .    - .-     Caribbean   Sea
-\      MOINMARINE-I
10    Stts)i$s, 'i'' -                                                                                                                                                                                          t o'3 \>  *sPnre s
Ai
COCOLES-I              N
8,672 ft.
4,   .,   <,   (>               ,      t  -                    ,                                        \t\\~~~~~~~~~~C  E
4c~~~c     
9. KItOMETERS 0          20        40        60        80       too
MILES 0              20              40              60                                                    /
CrihLirZE                                          Pa c if/'c        Ocean                        -
.;^s.-n s ibb Pec   iS/r o,.N,                                                                                                                                     P    A       N    A      M     A
E L SAL       V ADOk                                               This mop h.e been Prepared by V.h
World BOek. staff eacosrtwelY f-,
the coven"Aiene of theoroeders of
> _     tOp to which    , S at-tehod.
rhe denominsations o-rd andthd 
.o-danes show  sir thin raP
POC,//C                                             s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d ot itmply, Ott the p.1arof the                                                                            N~
odd Brwk andt tatffifiteo, os,
COSTA RIC                                       sparest s. rho ta) stat;sofs
p'\ terr',.,iF W   towty or sany endorsaornt                                                                                                                                                >0
0 c e "a ntoepton- of sorh boorrdai-.                                                                                                                                                                                          _
PANAMA                           81-Itn
hA'                      82                                                    -  Ut~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
K"



