                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25892

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (CPL-38730; SCL-38736; TF-25291; IDA-27090)

                                                  ON A

                                        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                 FOR A

                             FISCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                               June 6, 2003




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective June 5, 2003)

                         Currency Unit = Chinese Yuan (Y)
                                   Y 1 = US$ 0.12
                                 US$ 1 = Y8.2769

                                FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1    December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CTAIS              China Tax Administration Information System
GFMIS              Government Financial Management Information System
IBRD               The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IDA                International Development Association
IMF                International Monetary Fund
MOF                Ministry of Finance
MOF                Ministry of Finance
NBF                Non-Bank Financed
NCB                National Competitive Bidding
PBOC               People's Bank of China
SAFE               State Administration of Foreign Exchange
SAT                State Administration of Taxation
TA                 Technical Assistance
TL                 Task Leader
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme
USD                United States Dollar
WB          World Bank
WTO                World Trade Organization

                        Vice President:    Jamal-ud-din Kassum
             Country Manager/Director:     Yukon Huang
              Sector Manager/Director:     Homi Kharas
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Hana Brixi

                                            CHINA
                     FISCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex

Project ID: P036041                                                      Project Name: FISCAL TECHNICAL
                                                                         ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Team Leader: Hana Polackova Brixi                                        TL Unit: EASPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 6, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: FISCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT L/C/TF Number: CPL-38730; SCL-38736;
                                                                                                     TF-25291; IDA-27090
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (94%); Sub-national government
                            administration (6%)
                  Theme: Tax policy and administration (P); Public expenditure, financial
                            management and procurement (P); Decentralization (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    1994-05-15                                        Effective: 1995-09-25              1995-09-25
   Appraisal:    1994-12-25                                            MTR:
    Approval:    1995-04-25                                         Closing: 1999-12-31               2002-12-31

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          People's Republic of China/MOF; People's Republic of China/SAT & PBOC
                      Other Partners:      IMF

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Jemal-ud-din Kassum                                 Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:          Yukon Huang                                         Nicholas Hope
Sector Manager:            Homi Kharas                                         Zarfar Ecevit
Team Leader at ICR:        Hana Brixi                                          Bert Hofman
ICR Primary Author(s): Hana Brixi



2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:HL

Institutional Development Impact:H

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                 S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

    The Fiscal Technical Assistance (Fiscal TA) Project aimed at supporting reforms in public finance
    management in China. Particularly, the project aimed at enhancing effectiveness and efficiency of tax
    administration, tax policy, and public expenditure management, including preparation and
    implementation of the Government budget. Specifically, the Fiscal TA Project focused on: (a)
    developing and implementing a modern national tax administration system; (b) improving Government
    capacity for tax policy analysis; (c) improving the central-provincial grants scheme; and (d) improving
    budget management capacities and processes.

3.2 Revised Objective:

    The Fiscal TA Project maintained its original objective.

3.3 Original Components:

    The Fiscal TA Project focused on the key initiatives of the Government's fiscal management reforms.
    The project was organized into four components as follows:

    (a) Tax Administration (US$76.3 million equivalent): This component was to support the
   development of a national tax administration capable of implementing current and future tax reforms.
   The project was to assist in developing new administrative procedures, organizational arrangements
   and information systems for pilot cities. The State Administration of Taxation (SAT) was to develop
   and implement the information system primarily in-house, with consultant support for system design.
   The project would provide: 1) consultancies for tax administration procedures and information systems
   development, 2) training in systems development and in administrative and managerial functions, and
   3) equipment and software for the information system in 18 cities, at the national office, and in a
   training center.

   (b) Tax Policy Analysis (US$4.8 million equivalent): This component was to improve the tax policy
    analysis capacity of the Government and assist in a gradual transfer of the tax policy function from
    SAT to Ministry of Finance (MOF), and create tax policy analysis capacity at the provincial level of
    Government. The project was to provide: 1) the design of appropriate databases and models to support
    tax policy analysis, 2) computer equipment to support the new databases, analytical tools and improved
    communication between the national and provincial tax policy offices, 3) training for central and
    provincial government officials in tax policy analysis, and 4) studies to provide analytical background
    for future tax reforms.

    (c) Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations (US$2.9 million equivalent): The component was to assist in
    designing an improved central-provincial grants scheme, and in developing administrative procedures
    and information system for its implementation. The project was to provide: 1) consultancies to design
    the center-provincial grants scheme and develop an adequate information system, 2) training for the
    implementation of an improved grants scheme, and 3) equipment for the needed information system.

    (d) Budget System (US$4.3 million equivalent): This component was to assist MOF in building
    institutional capacity for budget preparation and implementation, and for conducting further budget
    management reforms. Capacity building was to cover, among others, expenditure analysis, budgeting



                                                     - 2 -

    and budget evaluation, government accounting, and treasury management. The project was to deliver:
    1) training and studies to assess the current budget systems in China and draw lessons from
    international practice, 2) consultancies on improving budgetary procedures and practices, and 3)
    consultancies, training and computer equipment for establishing a modern treasury system.

    Component                         IBRD          Counterpart     Total Cost       Rating
    Tax Administration             $36,422,000      $39,829,000     $76,251,000        S
    Tax Policy Analysis              $3,626,000      $1,143,000      $4,769,000        S
    Intergovernmental Fiscal                 $2,215,000        $713,000       $2,928,000      S
    Budget Systems                   $3,177,000      $1,101,000      $4,278,000        S

3.4 Revised Components:

    The objectives remained unchanged, but two of the four components were restructured to reflect the
    Government's evolving priorities and reforms in public finance management. Specifically, since 1999,
    the Government has placed emphasis on reforming its budget management systems. To support budget
    management reforms, two separate departments were created at MOF in 2000: the Budget Department
    in charge of intergovernmental transfers, budget classification and budgeting, and the Treasury
    Department in charge of budget execution (the establishment of a treasury system), cash management
    and debt management. Correspondingly, the fourth component under the Fiscal TA Project, the Budget
    Systems Component, was split into two, along the lines of the responsibility of the two new
    departments: A new Budget Reform Component, merged with the Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
    Component, was managed by the new Budget Department. A new Treasury System (budget
    implementation) Component was managed by the new Treasury Department. The objectives and
    activities originally outlined under the Budget Systems Component remained valid and were pursued
    continuously under the Budget Reform and Treasury System Components. To reflect the evolution of
    Government's relative priorities, activities designed under the third component, Intergovernmental
    Fiscal Relations, pursued under the Budget Reform Component, were redefined with a narrower scope.


    Allocation of funds was revised as follows:

    Component                         IBRD          Counterpart     Total Cost       Rating
    Tax Administration             $40,000,000      $27,085,852     $67,085,852        S
    Tax Policy Analysis              $3,630,000      $1,143,000      $4,769,000        S
    Budget & Intergovernmental Fiscal        $2,930,000        $970,000       $3,900,000      S
    Treasury System                  $2,470,000        $830,000      $3,300,000        S



3.5 Quality at Entry:

    Quality at entry was satisfactory. The Fiscal TA Project met a critical need to build public finance
    institutional capacity in China. The project was consistent with the Government priorities as well as
    with the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy for China. The project was well designed, with the
    contribution of experts from the respective fields. Client ownership was strong. Counterparts had the
    incentives and motivation to implement project activities and adhere to project objectives. There were
    three different counterpart agencies, the MOF, SAT and the People's Bank of China (PBOC), with very
    clear responsibilities defined under the project. The project was ready for implementation at approval.
    There were no conditionality or safeguard policies applicable and no explicit policy content.




                                                      - 3 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

    The Fiscal TA Project made an important contribution to the design and implementation of
    Government reforms in public expenditure management, tax policy and tax administration. The project
    supported the development of a modern national tax administration system and capacity building in tax
    policy analysis and in the preparation and implementation of Government budgets. With the direct
    contribution of the Fiscal TA Project, the Government established the foundations for a modern
    national tax administration system, for a Government treasury system, and for continuing reforms in
    tax administration, tax policy, inter-government finance and budget management.

4.2 Outputs by components:

    Tax Administration

    The component accomplished its objectives.

    During the life of the project, modernization of the tax administration system became one of the
    priorities of the State Council (Cabinet). The Government pursued the objective of improving tax
    compliance and control over revenue collection. Directly supported by the project, SAT developed
    unified procedures for tax administration and collection. Based on the new procedures, SAT designed,
    developed and piloted a national uniform China Tax Administration Information System (CTAIS). In
    the process, SAT led the development of system design and software, and installed equipment enabling
    gradual implementation of CTAIS throughout China. CTAIS was tested and piloted in 19 cities. At
    the end of the project, CTAIS covered 110 cities and 7 whole provinces, and managed the collection of
    one third of all budgetary revenues in China. Thanks to CTAIS, tax compliance is estimated to have
    increased significantly. Complementing the Fiscal TA Project during 1998-2002, SAT also
    implemented its Golden Tax Project to establish automatic monitoring of value-added-tax invoices. By
    the end of 2002, all invoices above RMB10,000 were covered.

    CTAIS and the Golden Tax Project were two vital pillars supporting overall improvements in the
    efficiency of tax administration in China and, as such, have been publicly credited for the strong
    government revenue performance during 2001-2002. To build on the success of both CTAIS and the
    Golden Tax Project, SAT launched a new project to integrate the two systems and to create interfaces
    also with customs administration, the banking system (via PBOC), and the State Administration of
    Foreign Exchange (SAFE) in order to monitor all major transactions that are subject to tax. In the
    process, the system of unified procedures for tax collection and administration along with CTAIS will
    be reviewed and adjusted with the objective of promoting efficiency and user-friendliness of tax
    collection in China. For instance, although the current procedures and CTAIS support tax declaration
    via internet, the tax declaration process is unnecessarily cumbersome. In the context of the current
    e-government initiative in China, the new project was already approved by the Government.

    Although most of the funds allocated to this component were spent on equipment contracts, a
    significant amount of consultancy and training was delivered. After 2000, in cooperation with the
    World Bank, TA and training programs were also arranged and financed by the IMF/UNDP technical
    assistance program. Training was also partly delivered under the equipment contracts. To complement
    these activities, SAT implemented $1.6 million-worth of training from its own resources.
    Consultancies focused on tax administration procedures and information systems development.



                                                     - 4 -

Training targeted systems development and main administrative and managerial functions. The process
of system design and software development as well as the country-wide implementation of CTAIS
involved nearly 100,000 local and central government officials. Hardware and software was delivered
to support the information system in the pilot sites and at the national office.

Tax Policy Analysis

The component accomplished its objectives.

Tax Policy Department of the MOF utilized the Fiscal TA Project to build the capacity for tax policy
analysis at the MOF and at local tax policy offices throughout China. Over the life of the Fiscal TA
Project, MOF assumed a growing role in tax policy analysis and formulation.

The Fiscal TA Project assisted the MOF in preparing detailed tax reform plans to: 1) equalize the
treatment of domestic and foreign funded enterprises under enterprise income tax and implement an
overall reform of enterprise income tax, 2) broaden the base for the personal income tax (to launch
taxation of personal income on a global basis), 3) improve local tax system (including the removal of
arbitrary rural fees and introduction of an inheritance tax and property tax), and 4) expand the scope of
value added tax and move value added tax from production basis to consumption basis. The Fiscal TA
Project also supported preparation for tax expenditure reform that would enhance transparency and
effectiveness of taxation and tax incentives in China. In the context of China's accession to the World
Trade Organization (WTO), the Fiscal TA Project assisted MOF in assessing the impact of WTO
accession on Government revenues and in adjusting the import-export tax system as required by WTO.


With the direct and indirect contribution of the Fiscal TA Project, some tax policy reforms have
already been implemented. These include the rural tax reform, enterprise income tax reform (gradually
de-linking revenue allocation from enterprise ownership) and reform of the import-export tax system.
The rural tax reform abolished rural fees imposed by local governments with the objective of reducing
the tax burden of farmers from about 8 percent to 2.5 percent. During 2000-2002, the tax-for-fee
reform was implemented in 20 provinces, with the remaining provinces joining the reform in 2003.
(Because the rural tax reform reduced the overall revenue of local governments and needed to be
complemented by compensatory intergovernmental fiscal transfers to poor rural localities, the rural tax
reform was also supported by the Budget and Intergovernmental Fiscal Reform Component of the
Fiscal TA Project.) Other major tax policy reforms, including the tax treatment of domestic and
foreign-funded enterprises, the introduction of a global income tax, the introduction of an inheritance
tax and the expansion of the VAT from a production to a consumption basis are expected to follow.

In supporting MOF tax policy reform initiatives and analytical capacity, the Fiscal TA Project
delivered: 1) databases and modeling capacity to support tax policy analysis, 2) training in tax policy
analysis and modeling, 3) studies pertaining to specific areas of tax reforms as well as China's overall
tax policy system, and 4) equipment to support more efficient communication between MOF and local
tax policy offices as well as their enhanced modeling and analytical capacity. In priority tax reform
areas, such as the income tax reform and value added tax reform, Fiscal TA Project provided
multi-pronged assistance, with complementary outputs including studies, seminars, and analytical
models (for example, income tax forecasting model and value added tax forecasting model) supported
by specialized training programs as well as by databases and equipment. Studies and training
materials were translated and widely disseminated.




                                                 - 5 -

MOF recognized that the project was instrumental in enabling its Tax Policy Department to provide
better support to the budget process by improving the quality of revenue forecasting, by enhancing the
effectiveness and timeliness of communication between the MOF and local tax policy offices on new
tax policies and their interpretation, and by promoting the dissemination of information and knowledge
across tax policy offices in China.

Budget & Intergovernmental Fiscal Reform

The component contributed to the accomplishment of project objectives.

The progress on budget management reform was satisfactory during the implementation of the Fiscal
TA Project. In 1999, the Government launched a broad program of budget management reform, which
significantly accelerated implementation of the Fiscal TA Project. The importance of reforming budget
management to improve the performance of public spending and to prevent corruption has been
stressed repeatedly in public by the Minister of Finance and other top-level Government officials. In
the area of budget management, the Government focused on improving planning of project
expenditures, on restructuring departmental budgets to guarantee adequate funding for core budget
activities, on enhancing revenue and expenditure classification and on establishing modern treasury
functions. To coordinate the various reforms and support them with a common platform, the Budget
and Treasury Departments of MOF joined forces to outline a Golden Fiscal System, which would
represent a comprehensive Government Financial Management Information System (GFMIS),
connecting both central and local level governments, and covering the functions of budget preparation,
budget implementation, accounting, and the management of cash, debt and fiscal risks. (The Golden
Fiscal System Project, along with the Golden Tax Project, was also approved by the Government
under its e-government initiative.)

With the direct and indirect contribution of the Fiscal TA, Government designed and implemented
reforms toward reorienting budget management from broad sectoral budget allocations towards
departmental budgets, from a bottom up approach in budget preparation to viable aggregate ceilings on
budget allocations, and from emphasis on input controls to performance monitoring. Since 2000, the
departmental budgets have been gradually implemented to reach the first level of spending units (102
departmental budgets). During 2001-2002, budget preparation in all first level spending units was
modified to separate recurrent and capital investment spending items, promote transparency and lay a
basis for promoting output/outcome features in budget preparation. Since 2001, the budget process
has been restructured to allow for a better balance between MOF, which is responsible for aggregate
fiscal control, and departmental agencies, which present their sectoral needs. Reforms in revenue and
expenditure classification have followed international practice, gradually solving political and technical
problems in the process.    In addition, the Government was also expanding the coverage of its budget
to capture off-budget activities of budget institutions and extrabudgetary funds, improving the
management of its cash flows and assets, and enhancing its accounting system. Further preparatory
work was undertaken to reform the system of intergovernmental fiscal transfers, including
central-provincial grants. Since 2000, complementing the Fiscal TA Project, the IMF supported these
reforms with technical assistance under the IMF/UNDP technical assistance program.

Under this component, the Fiscal TA Project delivered a large number of international workshops,
training programs, consultancies and studies on public expenditure analysis, budget evaluation and
preparation, government accounting, the organic budget law, the role of Parliament in the budget
process, quantitative analysis and design for intergovernmental fiscal transfers, the analysis and
management of fiscal risks, and budget statistics. Equipment was installed and used to establish and


                                                 - 6 -

    test a network of more than 100 budget units of the central government, which should eventually
    become a part of the GFMIS. Studies and training materials were translated and widely disseminated.
    Local government officials participated in most of the activities.

    Treasury System

    The component contributed to the accomplishment of project objectives.

    As part of the Government budget management reform, MOF in June 2000 created the Treasury
    Department to lead budget implementation reforms. These reforms primarily aimed at establishing
    modern treasury functions. After the State Council in February 2001 approved the treasury single
    account for implementation, the treasury reform has become one of MOF's top priorities. To ensure
    clear division of responsibilities in budget implementation as well as in the treasury reform per se, the
    State Council made the MOF responsible for developing the overall treasury system, including the
    treasury ledger general accounting system, and for managing the budget implementation process,
    including the management of government spending transactions, cash and debt. The Treasury Bureau
    of PBOC was in charge of the establishment and management of the treasury single account and
    execution of budget disbursements. MOF and PBOC collaborated to establish a mechanism to control
    payments vis-·vis appropriations and cash balances. After the treasury single account was set up in
    July 2001, the State Council closely monitored the progress in expanding its pilot coverage and in the
    overall budget implementation reform.

    By end-2002, the treasury single account covered 40 central government agencies (out of the total 165)
    and extrabudgetary funds for 15 central government agencies (out of 60 agencies that have own
    extrabudgetary funds). The Government plans to cover all government agencies in the treasury system
    by 2005. While implementing the treasury system for the central government, MOF has been
    encouraging treasury reforms at the provincial level. In 2002, 10 provincial governments were in the
    process of establishing their own treasury system, with a treasury single account based in the respective
    provincial branch of PBOC. In cash management and debt management, MOF has built its financial
    planning capacity, aiming at further enhancing efficiency in the management of government cash flows
    and borrowing. Since mid-2002, MOF has intensified its effort to design the GFMIS.

    Under this component, consultancies and training assisted in designing and developing the treasury
    system, and in improving budget execution, government accounting, government procurement and
    disbursement, audit, management of extra-budgetary funds, GFMIS, and on the management of
    government cash, debt and fiscal risks. Many of the activities were coordinated with MOF Budget
    Department. Equipment delivered under the project was utilized by PBOC and MOF in establishing
    the basis for the government budget execution and payment systems, which were launched on a trial
    basis.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:



                                                     - 7 -

    The project has had a significant institutional impact. Improvements in institutional arrangements and
    capacities facilitated by the Fiscal TA Project have been publicly credited for their contribution to the
    growing efficiency of public finance management in China. Notably, the institutional capacity built
    under the Tax Administration and Treasury Systems Components had a strong positive impact already
    before completion of the Fiscal TA Project. The modernization in tax administration, undertaken with
    a clear contribution of the Fiscal TA Project, was publicly credited for contributing to the relatively
    fast growth in government revenues during 2001-2002. The implementation of the treasury single
    account and of the associated systems and procedures for budget implementation was acknowledged
    for enabling greater transparency and efficiency in government financial flows.

    Institutional development impact has been significant even in areas in which reforms are yet to be
    implemented fully. Institutional capacity of MOF and local governments has been significantly
    strengthened in intergovernmental fiscal reform and tax policy, which was the objective of the Fiscal
    TA Project. Complex technical and political issues, however, still need to be resolved before some of
    the tax policy reform proposals and comprehensive intergovernmental fiscal reform will be
    implemented and so make the impact of the Fiscal TA Project truly visible.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

    The public finance management structures and institutions in existence at the launch of the Fiscal TA
    Project were not adapted to a market economy and required far reaching institutional and policy
    reforms. These reforms were complex and required a long time to design and prepare. In some
    instances, the process of project supervision under the Fiscal TA Project was contributing to the design
    of these reforms by facilitating the transfer of knowledge without delivering any actual project
    activities. While the project's implementation progress appeared very slow and even was rated
    unsatisfactory before 1999, a lot of learning occurred during that time on the Government side, which
    facilitated relatively fast and successful progress in project implementation and, more importantly, in
    public finance management reforms during 2000-2002.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

    Relatively smooth implementation of the Fiscal TA Project during 2000-2002 reflected the growing
    commitment of the State Council and other top leaders in the Chinese Government to public finance
    management reforms. The ownership of public finance management reforms has been very strong,
    with the World Bank playing a role of an active facilitator rather than an initiator. The strong
    ownership at the top levels of Government implied a high level of commitment and a good coordination
    at the level of the project implementing agencies.

    In terms of procurement, as far as subject to government control, processes were smooth under all
    components during 2000-02. Problems arose under the tax administration component in the early years
    of the project. This mainly related to the Government's decision to use a single-stage bidding process
    and custom-made bidding document (rather than the Bank's standard bidding document). The
    single-stage bidding process required enhanced screening by the World Bank. The custom-made
    bidding document required a number of legal and procurement clearances from the World Bank. As a
    result, the procurement process was cumbersome and slow.



                                                      - 8 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

    Although the Fiscal TA Project did not have a single project manager, the International Department of
    MOF played an important coordinating role in the overall process of project implementation. An
    important positive aspect was also continuity of personnel in charge of the individual project
    components in the project implementing agencies. Project accounts and audits were submitted on a
    regular basis. The project audits were timely and the audit opinions were generally positive.

5.4 Costs and financing:

    The final cost of the Fiscal TA Project was US$76,520,000.00 as compared to appraisal estimate of
    US$105,500,000.00 equivalent. The IBRD funds of US$47,587,335.27 financed 62 percent of the
    total project costs. Of the original IBRD loan/credit of US$50,000,000.00, US$468.65 remained
    un-disbursed and was cancelled. US$2,412,196.08 was lost due to the fluctuation of the US dollar
    exchange rate vis-·och-vis SDR during the life of the project. The original closing date of the project
    was extended from December 31, 1999 to December 31, 2002 at the request of the Borrower.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

    Reforms launched with the support of the project are expected to be sustainable. Top Government
    leaders have paid close attention to public finance management reforms. The outgoing Minister of
    Finance featured information on the ongoing budget preparation and budget implementation reforms
    prominently in his speech addressing the National People's Congress in March 2003. Similarly, top
    leaders continue to emphasize the importance of reforms in tax policy, tax administration, budget
    management and local government finance.

    The project supported institutional building activities to establish adequate procedures, processes and
    systems tax administration, budget preparation and budget implementation. The procedures, processes
    and systems had all been successfully tested and piloted and then further implemented, becoming an
    integral part of the present fiscal management system in China. Important institutional capacity,
    including human capacity and analytical tools, has been developed in the areas of tax policy analysis
    and intergovernmental fiscal reforms. Overall, the project built significant human capacity across the
    implementing agencies and across the central and local governments more widely. Networks
    established through seminars, study tours and international training programs have become effective
    channels for tapping additional domestic and international expertise in the future.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

    Most of project activities were already integrated into the regular operation of the Government. In tax
    administration, budget preparation and budget implementation, the Government continues to expand
    the piloted approaches with a clear commitment to bring the reform process to a successful completion.
    In intergovernmental finance and tax policy, the Government is utilizing its improved analytical
    capacity in preparing further reforms.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance



                                                     - 9 -

Bank
7.1 Lending:

    The Bank's performance in all aspects of the project cycle was satisfactory. Project design reflected
    the Government's priorities and preferences as well as advice of public finance management experts of
    the World Bank and IMF. The World Bank and IMF staff assisted the Government in identifying
    possible approaches to the proposed reforms and key areas in need of technical assistance. There were
    no significant deviations from Bank policies or procedures in project preparation. The project
    supported a broader policy dialogue led between the Government and the World Bank, IMF and other
    bilateral and multilateral donor agencies.

    The Bank, however, found it difficult in responding to the Government's wish to use a single-stage
    bidding process and custom-made bidding document under the tax administration component in the
    early years of the project. The advice provided by the World Bank was not consistent and clear enough
    to avoid unnecessary procedures, effort and delays.

7.2 Supervision:

    Although the project saw three different task team leaders during its life, its implementation was
    smooth. Supervision performance benefited from the fact that, since 1998, the project's task team
    leader as well as the majority of the project Bank team was based in Beijing. Contacts between the
    project Bank team and the project implementing agencies were very active, making project supervision
    a continuous activity rather than a series of distinct missions. Either directly or by reaching out to the
    experts within and outside the World Bank, the Bank team closely supported the project implementing
    agencies on substantive as well as procedural questions. The Bank performance in the process of
    equipment procurement for SAT was slower than demanded by the client, reflecting the need to obtain
    approvals by the World Bank Headquarters at several different stages of the procurement process.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

    The overall Bank performance is assessed as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

    The Borrower was involved in the preparation and design phases, well utilizing inputs and advice
    facilitated by the Bank team. The Ministry of Finance coordinated with SAT and PBOC to develop
    project proposal and collect information needed for project preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

    Government implementation performance was satisfactory. The International Department of Ministry
    of Finance was responsible for overall project coordination. Execution of individual project
    components was delegated to the respective MOF departments and implementing agencies. In the early
    stages of project implementation, MOF and SAT focused on learning and on building the political and
    technical basis for the envisaged reforms. While important for the success of the reforms later
    implemented with the project's support, this early stage of project implementation appeared
    unsatisfactory from the viewpoint of actual project activities and disbursement. Strong political
    support to public finance management reforms became obvious in 2000. Good technical understanding
    developed in the early stages of project implementation then allowed for a relatively fast


                                                     - 10 -

    implementation of reforms, supported by a fast sequence of project activities as well as by a continuing
    dialogue between the implementing agencies and the Bank team.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

    Implementing agencies, including the Tax Policy, Budget and Treasury Departments of MOF, SAT
    and PBOC, quickly assumed leadership in formulating and executing project activities and played a
    vital role in the successful implementation of the project. They managed well the implementation of
    their respective components and coordinated with the International Department of MOF on an as
    needed basis. In addition, the implementing agencies have been proactive in communicating with the
    Bank team on issues directly pertaining to the project or on questions arising in the process of public
    finance management reforms.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

    The overall performance of the Borrower is assessed as satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned


    The Fiscal TA Project offers several lessons:

   l Strong commitment of the Government is instrumental in institutional reforms.
    Under each of the project components, the process and results of implementation indicate that without a
    clear signal from the top of the Government, institutional reforms are difficult to implement.
    Government priorities also affect the incentives and ability of Government officials to participate in
    capacity building activities.

   l The World Bank's contribution is vital in facilitating the transfer of expertise.
    Several implementing agencies, including SAT and the Budget and Treasury Departments of MOF,
    indicated that, although their original emphasis under the project was on obtaining equipment, they
    have learned that the World Bank's contribution was most vital in facilitating and adapting appropriate
    international expertise, in promoting broad-based human capacity building, and in establishing
    knowledge-sharing and networking arrangements that would last well beyond the life of the project.

   l The evolution of Government priorities affects system design.
    It became apparent particularly in the tax administration component, that the most urgent priorities of
    the Government may marginalize other considerations important to design systems for a longer-term
    use. While the CTAIS system clearly made an enormous contribution to improving the Government
    revenue performance, it was built around the 1995/96 Government's urgent objective of improving
    control and compliance in tax collection. Other objectives relevant for system design, such as
    efficiency, convenience and user-friendliness were not adequately reflected in the original design.
    Marginalization of these softer objectives in the original design, along with the continuing emergence of
    new technical tools (such as wider use of the internet and telecommunication network) since the
    original design was completed, may necessitate future changes in the system.


9. Partner Comments



                                                    - 11 -

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

    The project was very valuable in supporting Government fiscal management reforms and accomplished
    its objectives. Specifically, the project contributed to building institutional capacity in tax
    administration, tax policy, budget preparation, budget implementation and inter-government finance.
    Particularly valuable have been activities promoting deeper understanding of public finance
    management issues among Government officials and activities supporting human capacity building
    across central and local branches of Government agencies involved in the implementation of public
    finance management reforms. The human capacity developed under the project will contribute to
    successful implementation of further public finance management reforms in the future.

    The Bank team played an instrumental role in the smooth implementation of the project, contributing
    on substantive as well as procedural issues. It would be valuable to maintain a close relationship
    between the Bank team and the implementing agencies beyond the Fiscal TA Project for the
    Government to continue benefiting from the available expertise and experience in the future.

(b) Cofinanciers:

    Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

    International Monetary Fund:

    During 1995-99, while receiving periodic inputs from the IMF, the delivery under the Fiscal TA
    Project was implemented entirely by government and Bank staff and consultants. Later, several
    components of the Fiscal TA Project enabled direct IMF involvement in the delivery of technical
    assistance, including participation of IMF staff and IMF consultants in seminars and training programs
    conducted under the project in China and abroad.

    Since 2000, a complementary UNDP/IMF/DFID/World Bank project for fiscal reforms allowed for
    greater assistance effort in support of fiscal reform in China. This joint project intensified and
    extended the government's reform program in the area of public sector management.

    The Chief Representative of the IMF has acknowledged the complementary role of the IMF and the
    Bank in helping reform China's fiscal system.

10. Additional Information


    Not applicable




                                                      - 12 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate


Tax Administration:

Improve efficiency by modernizing the        Efficiency of tax administration has been      The introduction of uniform tax administration
national tax administration system.          improved by the introduction of uniform tax    procedures and information system has
                                             administration procedures and information      boosted tax compliance and was credited for
                                             system.                                        its contribution to the Government's strong
                                                                                            revenue performance in 2001-2002.

Tax Policy Analysis:

Support further tax policy reforms by        Government capacity for tax policy analysis    MOF and, to some extent, also local tax
improving Government capacity for tax policy has been improved and several tax policy       offices have developed human capacity and
analysis.                                    reforms have been prepared.                    tools to analyze tax policy effects and
                                                                                            alternatives, which already contributed to the
                                                                                            preparation and gradual implemen-tation of
                                                                                            several tax policy reforms.

                                             MOF has gradually built capacity to assume     MOF has performed an increasing role in tax
Consolidate the tax policy function at MOF.  leadership in tax policy analysis and reforms. policy reforms.




Budget Reform and Intergovernmental
Relations:

Facilitate aggregate fiscal control and      Government capacity in expenditure analysis MOF has implemented reforms reorienting
allocative efficiency in Government budget   and budget formulation has been improved       budget management towards departmental
management by improving the budget           and budget process gradually reformed to       budgets and viable aggregate ceilings on
process and capacity in budget preparation.  enhance fiscal control and allocative          budget allocations, and has built its human
                                             efficiency.                                    capacity and tools for expenditure analysis
                                                                                            and budget formulation, and for developing
                                                                                            further budget management reforms.

                                                                                            MOF has been gradually enhancing the
Enhance efficiency in inter-government       Gradually improve the existing                 central-provincial grants scheme and
finance by developing and implementing a     central-provincial grants scheme.              enforcing the redistributive aspects of
central-provincial grants scheme.                                                           inter-government finance.

Treasury Reform:

Improve efficiency of Government budget      A modern treasury system has been piloted.     In collaboration with PBOC, MOF piloted and
implementation by establishing a modern                                                     is further expanding a modern treasury
treasury system.                                                                            system, which has contributed to improving
                                                                                            transparency, fiscal control and efficiency of
                                                                                            Government budget implementation,
                                                                                            including the management of government
                                                                                            spending transactions, cash and debt.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate


Tax Administration:

Implement new unified administrative         Unified administrative procedures and          Unified administrative procedures and
procedures, and organizational arrangements organizational arrangements have been           organizational arrangements have been
nation-wide.                                 implemented nation-wide.                       implemented nation-wide.




                                                                - 13 -

Design software and hardware to form a        CTAIS tested and piloted in 19 cities.          CTAIS covered 110 cities and 7 whole
modern information system for gradual                                                         provinces, and managed the collection of one
nation-wide implementation.                                                                   third of all budgetary revenues in China

Develop adequate human capacity at SAT.       SAT trained a large number of its               Majority of SAT staff have been adequately
                                              headquarter and local staff in tax              trained in implementing the new procedures
                                              admini-stration procedures and approaches. and approaches.



Tax Policy Analysis:

Design databases and models for tax policy    MOF implemented new databases, tax policy New databases and tax policy models have
analysis and implement computer equipment models and the needed supporting computer been implemented, and a good
to support the enhanced analytical capacity   equipment.                                      communication between MOF and local tax
and efficient communication between MOF                                                       policy offices was established, all supported
and local tax policy offices.                                                                 by adequate computer equipment.

Develop adequate human capacity in tax                                                        Tax policy staff of MOF and local
policy analysis and modeling at MOF.          MOF trained a large number of its own and       governments have been trained in tax policy
                                              local government staff in tax analysis and      analysis and modeling to contribute to tax
                                              utilized expert studies to upgrade staff        policy reforms.
                                              knowledge and skills.



Budget & Inter-government Fiscal Reform:

Design and implement new analytical           MOF was gradually reforming budget              New approaches to budget classification,
approaches for budget preparation and         classification, budget structure, expenditure   budget structure and budget coverage have
intergovernmental fiscal transfers, and       planning approaches, and the formula for        been gradually implemented. A computer
support their implementation through          calculating intergovernmental fiscal transfers. network for over 100 central government
appropriate computer equipment.                                                               budget units was established and tested.

                                              MOF trained a large number of its own and       Most MOF Budget staff have been trained in
Develop adequate human capacity in budget local government staff in budget analysis and budget evaluation, preparation and statistics,
preparation at MOF and selected local         widely disseminated lessons from                and in quantitative analysis for
governments.                                  international practice.                         intergovernmental fiscal transfers.




Treasury System:

Design and implement a modern treasury        MOF designed and piloted the treasury           Modern treasury functions have been piloted,
system, including the treasury ledger general system and gradually assumed responsibility with the treasury single account covering 40
accounting system and treasury single         for payment processing.                         central government agencies and
account.                                                                                      extrabudgetary funds for 15 central
                                                                                              government agencies.

Develop adequate human capacity in budget MOF trained a large number of its own and           Treasury staff of MOF and local governments
implementation at MOF and selected local      local government staff in treasury functions    have been trained in treasury functions,
governments.                                  and budget implementation and widely            budget execution, government accounting,
                                              disseminated lessons from international         procurement and disbursement, financial
                                              practice.                                       planning, and the management of cash and
                                                                                              risks.

1End of project




                                                                  - 14 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Tax Administration                                          76.30           67.09               87
Tax Policy Analysis                                          4.80             3.56              74
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations                           2.90             3.06             105
Budget System                                                4.30             2.79              64

Total Baseline Cost                                         88.30           76.50
 Physical Contingencies                                      4.40
 Price Contingencies                                        12.80
                         Total Project Costs               105.50           76.50
                  Total Financing Required                 105.50           76.50


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          40.70             0.80         0.00          0.00         41.50
                                  (36.70)          (0.80)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (37.50)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         8.70          7.10         15.80
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (8.70)          (0.00)       (8.70)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         3.70          2.80          6.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.70)          (0.00)       (3.70)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          41.60        41.60
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          40.70             0.80        12.40          51.50        105.40
                                  (36.70)          (0.80)      (12.40)         (0.00)       (49.90)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            0.00         0.00           2.30         2.30
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          41.65            1.88         4.42           3.63        51.58
                                  (36.22)         (1.88)       (4.42)         (0.00)       (42.52)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00         0.00           1.81         1.81
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00         0.00           1.93         1.93

                                                - 15 -

                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                41.65              1.88              4.42             9.67             57.62
                                          (36.22)            (1.88)            (4.42)            (0.00)           (42.52)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Tax Administration            36.42        39.83                    40.00         27.09                 109.8     68.0
Tax Policy Analysis            3.63         1.14                     3.04         0.52                  83.7      45.6
Budget &                       2.93         0.97                     2.46         0.61                  84.0      62.9
Intergovernmental
Relations
Treasury                       2.47         0.83                     2.09         0.71                  84.6      85.5




                                                          - 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


  Not applicable




                                      - 17 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1994                      6    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
                                             INFORMATION TECH. SPEC
                                             (1) PROJECT ASSISTANT (1)
                                             ECONOMIST (2) PUBLIC
                                             SECTOR MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
                                                                              S               S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/1995                   6    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
                                             INFORMATION TECH.
                                             SPEC (1) PROJECT
                                             ASSISTANT (1)
                                             ECONOMIST (2) PUBLIC
                                             SECTOR MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)


 Supervision

              08/10/1995                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              03/17/1996                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              08/15/1996                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             INFORMATION TECH. SPEC
                                             (1); PROJECT ASSISTANT (1);
                                             FISCAL POLICY EXPERT (1)
              07/30/1997                5    TASK MANAGER (1)                 U               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
                                             TAX POLICY (1)
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              10/13/1998                4    TASK MANAGER (1)                 U               S
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1) OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1)
              06/12/1999                5    TASK MANAGER (1)                 U               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1) OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
                                             TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
              12/10/1999                5    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1) OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
                                             TEAM ASSISTANT (1)



                                              - 18 -

               05/25/2001              4    TASK MANAGER (1)                  S    HS
                                            CHIEF OF PROC. UNIT (1)
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1) TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
               12/12/2001              3    TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    HS
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
               06/03/2002              4    TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    HS
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                            DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
                                            (1)
               06/03/2002              4    TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    HS
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                            ANALYST (1); TEAM
                                            ASSISTANT (1)
               11/15/2002              3    TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    HS
                                            PROCUREMENT SPEICIALIST
                                            (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)

 ICR
               06/2003                2     TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    S
                                            TEAM ASSISTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                              44                          132
  ICR                                       4                           12
  Total                                    48                          144




                                            - 19 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Technical Annex to the Memorandum of the President: China Fiscal Technical Assistance Project, April
3, 1995
2. Project Status Report, Seq#1-17
3. Bank Mission Back-to-Office Reports and Aide-Memories from 1995-2003




                                               - 22 -

- 23 -

