Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2709 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Fiscal Technical Assistance Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 25, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2709 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 25, 1995, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000) 
(the Loan);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member of 
the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as
applied to such agreement (the General Conditions Applicable to the Loan Agreement), 
and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
(b)
"MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto.
 
(c)
"SAT" means the Borrower's State Administration of Taxation or any 
successor thereto.
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixteen million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 16,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Association, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Page  3
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time 
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 2005 and ending January 1, 2030.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 1, 2015 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower credit worthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the
review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after 
due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the 
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
Page  4
financial, economic, fiscal and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and take such other
actions in respect of the Project as are set forth in said Schedule 4.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Page  5
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled,
other than those related to the effectiveness of this  Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Page  6
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
                         Amount       Amount
                         of the       of the
                         Credit        Loan
                        Allocated    Allocated
                       (Expressed   (Expressed           % of
                         in SDR      in Dollar        Expenditures
      Category         Equivalent)  Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Goods            11,740,000     17,500,000       100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures;
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures (ex-
                                                      factory cost); and
                                                      75% of local
                                                      expenditures for
                                                      other items
                                                      procured locally
(2)  Consultants'      1,080,000       1,600,000)
     services                                   )
                                                )     100%
(3)  Training,         2,430,000       3,600,000)
     conferences,
     workshops
     and
     study tours
(4)  Unallocated       1,550,000       2,300,000
    TOTAL             16,800,000      25,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Page  7
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 3,100,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after March 1, 1995.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:  (a) goods procured under 
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (b) services of consulting firms 
procured under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (c) services of 
individual consultants procured under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; 
and (d) training, study tours, workshops and conferences; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are (1) to strengthen the Borrower's 
administration of tax revenues, institutional capabilities in respect of tax policy 
analysis and budgetary procedures and (2) to rationalize fiscal relations between the 
Borrower's central and provincial governments.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Tax Administration
 
Carrying out of a program to introduce a national tax administration system, 
consisting of the:
(1)
development, in one municipality selected in agreement with the Association, of 
procedures, organizational arrangements and information systems required for a 
national tax administration system and introduction of the same on a pilot basis in 
four municipalities selected in agreement with the Association; and provision of 
training, study tours, workshops, conferences and equipment required therefor;
(2)
assessment of the tax administration system introduced in said municipalities; 
and
(3)
on the basis of said assessment, further development and introduction, in 
additional municipalities selected in agreement with the Association, of said 
procedures, arrangements and systems; and provision of training, study tours, 
workshops, conferences and equipment required therefor.
Part B:
Tax Policy Analysis
 
(1)
Development of improved surveys designed to obtain data needed for quantitative 
tax policy analysis; development and carrying out of training programs in tax policy 
analysis for staff of the Borrower's national and provincial agencies responsible for 
tax policy; and development and introduction of an information system required for tax 
policy analysis, including provision of equipment required therefor.
(2)
Carrying out of studies of (a) value-added, enterprise income, personal income, 
local, social security, and environmental and resource taxes, (b) tax capacity and (c) 
tax assignment, all in order to prepare future fiscal reforms.
Part C:
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
 
(1)
Development, and introduction on a pilot basis in several provinces selected in 
agreement with the Association, of a system for the transfer of surplus fiscal 
revenues from the Borrower's national government to provincial governments and 
provision of equipment and training required therefor; and
(2)
assessment of the system introduced in said provinces and, on the basis of said 
assessment, further development of said system with a view to its introduction on a 
nationwide basis.
Page  8
Part D:
Budget System
 
(1)
Carrying out of diagnostic studies of the Borrower's budget reporting and 
accounting, treasury management, budget preparation and analysis and audit and 
inspection systems, and provision of training, including study tours and workshops, in 
the development and application of budget systems, all with a
view to preparing a strategy for the development and introduction of an efficient 
budget system.
(2)
Assessment of the treasury network of the Borrower's central bank, and, on the 
basis of said assessment, improvement and extension of said treasury network, 
including the provision of computer hardware and software required therefor.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent per contract or less, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent per contract or less, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
Page  9
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the 
terms of reference and short lists for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
For purposes of Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, the Implementation Program 
shall consist of the following.
A.
Project Management; Allocation of Funds
 
1.
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall:
 
(a)
maintain a Project coordination team, with membership (including 
representatives of SAT and MOF), terms of reference and resources acceptable to the 
Association, to be responsible for the overall coordination of the Project; and
(b)
maintain three separate implementation teams, with terms of reference, 
staffing and other resources acceptable to the Association, one to be responsible for 
the implementation of Part A of the Project, another to be responsible for the 
implementation of Part B thereof and the third to be responsible for the 
implementation of Parts C and D thereof.
2.
The Borrower shall allocate the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, free of 
any charge or fee, to the agencies of the Borrower responsible for the implementation 
of the Project.
B.
Part A of the Project:  Tax Administration
 
Part A of the Project will be carried out by SAT in accordance with a time-bound 
Page  10
action plan acceptable to the Association. Without limitation upon the foregoing, the 
Borrower will ensure that no goods or consultants' services under Part A(3) of the 
Project shall be procured unless and until:  (1) the Borrower shall have carried out, 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnished to the 
Association the assessment of the tax administration system referred to in Part A (2) 
thereof, together with a plan for the implementation of any revisions in such system 
warranted by said assessment; (2) the Association shall have communicated to the 
Borrower its acceptance of said plan; and (3) the Borrower shall have implemented such 
plan as shall have been accepted by the Association.
C.
Part B of the Project:  Tax Policy Analysis
 
Part B of the Project will be carried out jointly by MOF and SAT under 
arrangements and in accordance with a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association.
D.
Parts C and D of the Project:  Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations and Budget 
Systems
Parts C and D of the Project will be carried out by MOF in accordance with a 
time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association.  Without limitation upon the 
foregoing, the Borrower will ensure that no goods or consultants' services shall be 
procured for the extension of the treasury network referred to in Part D(2) of the 
Project unless and until:  (1) the Borrower shall have carried out, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnished to the Association its 
assessment of said network, together with a plan for the implementation of any 
improvements to said network warranted by said assessment; (2) the Association shall 
have communicated to the Borrower its acceptance of said plan; and (3) the Borrower 
shall have implemented such plan as shall have been accepted by the Association.
E.
Monitoring and Reporting
 
The Borrower shall:
1.
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
2.
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish 
to the Association, not later than June 30 and December 31 in each year during which 
the Project is carried out, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to Part E.1 above of this Schedule, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the six-month period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date, including any revisions proposed to be 
introduced into the time-bound action plans referred to above in Parts B, C and D of 
this Schedule; and
3.
promptly after receiving the Association's comments on each of the reports 
referred to above in Part E.2 of this Schedule, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
including introduction of the revisions into the applicable action plans referred to 
above in Part E.2 of this Schedule, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association's views on the matter.
F.
Equipment Maintenance
 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and Section 9.08 of the General Conditions Applicable to the Loan Agreement, the 
Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain the equipment procured for the 
Project, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound technical and financial practices.
G.
Plan upon Project Completion
 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General Conditions 
Page  11
and of the General Conditions Applicable to the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of 
the Project;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the  proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 6,700,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account 
and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents 
Page  12
and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall  reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for  eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement or from
the Loan  Account in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions applicable thereto;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section, or 
to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 6.02 of the 
respective General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the  Association or the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.   
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Page  13
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Development
Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable 
thereto.
