Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24996
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25710)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR148.5 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 30, 2003



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective Decemberz 2002)
Currency Unit = Yuan
Y 1.00 = US$ 0.12
US$ I = Y 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP           Agriculture Development Project
ASSP          Agricultural Support Services Project
BOF           Bureau of Finance
EDMC          External Debt Management Center
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP        Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FHH           Female-Headed Households
FIRR          Financial Internal Rate of Return
FRCP          Fourth Rural Credit Project
FRR           Financial Rate of Retum
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
MTR           Mid-Term Review
NPV           Net Present Value
PMO           Project Management Office
PPMO          Provincial Project Management Office
PSR           Project Status Report
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SCF           Standard Conversion Factor
TA            Technical Assistance
WF            Women's Federation
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAP
Country Manager/Director:   Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager/Director:  Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Pawan G. Patil, EASRD



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   1
2. Pnncipal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry        2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Lessons Learned from Gender Mainstreaming                               31
Annex 9. Project Impacts as Seen Through the Eyes of Project Beneficiaries       33






Project ID: P003593                                      Project Name: Songliao Plain Agricultural
Development Project
Team Leader: Pawan G. Patil                              TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: January 30, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: Songliao Plain Agricultural Development Project  L/C/TFNumber: IDA-25710
Country/Department: CHINA                                               Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: Agricultural marketing and trade (30%); Animal
production (27%); Crops (20%); Irrigation and
drainage (20%); Central government administration
(3%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   12/17/1991                             Effective: 06/15/1994        06/15/1994
Appraisal:  06/14/1993                               MTR: 10/31/1996            10/31/1996
Approval:  02/24/1994                             Closing: 12/31/2001          06/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  People's Republic of China/Liaoning and Jilin Project Management Offices
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                      Gautam S. Kaji
Country Manager:     Yukon Huang                               Shahid Javed Burki - Department Director
Sector Manager:      Mark D. Wilson                            Joseph Goldberg - Division Chief
Team Leader at ICR:  Pawan G. Patil                            Rapeepun Jaisaard
ICR Primary Author:  Pawan G. Patil
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Neghgible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The major objective of the project was to assist Liaoning and Jilin Provinces in their agricultural
development plans, which aimed to increase agricultural production, farmers' incomes and rural
employment by boosting the productivity and marketability of agricultural, horticultural, livestock,
aquacultural and agro-industrial products in 40 counties in Liaoning and Jilin Provinces. Specifically, the
project aimed to (a) improve productivity of existing low-yield farmland by expanding irrigation and
drainage facilities; (b) develop unutilized wastelands for rice production; (c) introduce soil and water
conservation in potentially productive areas; (d) develop marginal highlands for fruit production; (e)
provide important farn inputs, agricultural support services, training and technical assistance opportunity;
(f) develop inter-tidal areas for aquaculture production; (g) support livestock production processing and
support services; (h) expand agro-processing activities utilizing available raw materials; and (i) strengthen
research, extension and environmental protection programs. The project also sought to target women
farmers as beneficiaries by supporting small livestock production. such as that of geese, rabbit and pigs.
These objectives were in line with the Government's long term strategies and policies for the agricultural
sector as formulated in the early nineties which sought to increase production to meet the requirements as a
direct result of population growth, and to increase income and employment in rural areas. The objective
was also consistent with the Government's objectives for livestock and aquaculture development, which
focused on increasing production for domestic consumption, increasing exports to earn foreign exchange,
and to provide additional sources of income for rural peoples.
The Bank had a distinct comparative advantage in this sector, having financed 33 operations in agricultural
development amounting to $4.4 billion prior to this project. Moreover, design of the project was able to
draw on experience from other Bank-financed provincial Agriculture Development Projects (ADPs), the
first of which was financed in 1987. With many southeastem Provinces benefiting from Bank-financed
agriculture projects, the Government's priorities in the early 1990s was to focus on China's northeastern
Provinces. The Project was therefore formulated in two northeastern provinces, Liaoning Province and
Jilin Province and emphasized effective use of existing natural resources to increase and diversify
agricultural production and processing in response to market demands, which would lead to expanding
opportunities for on-farm and off-farm income generation and employment Other Bank-financed
agriculture development type projects from which lessons learned were applied to the design of this
investment, included the Fourth Rural Credit Project (FRCP) and the Agricultural Support Services Project
(ASSP).
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original project objectives remained unchanged. However, in May 2001 the Credit was reallocated to
improve the poverty impact in animal husbandry in Jilin Province. It had become clear that the poorest yet
capable households were not usually the recipients of project loans. The project beneficiaries tended to be
those households who had the means to pay back the project loan prior to their participation in the project.
Many more had the means to pay back from the gains made from participating in the project The
reallocation targeted these beneficiaries. As a result, approximately $5 million in small loans since 2001
have been distributed to hundreds of truly poor households.
3.3 Original Components:
The project was designed to specifically address key constraints limiting agricultural productivity in the
project area, including soil salinity and water logging, wind and sandstorm damage, shortage and poor
quality of irrigation water, inadequate crop diversification, poor inputs and feed quality, limited availability
- 2-



of extension services and weak linkages between agricultural production, processing and marketing
activities. The project also worked toward introducing envirornental standards in the designs of
agro-processing plants, developing monitoring systems to ensure compliance and good environmental
protection practices. As mentioned earlier, the design drew on the Bank's extensive experience in integrated
rural development projects in China, and the lessons leamed from this experience was expected to help the
project address these major constraints. Specifically, the project was designed to include the following nine
components:
(a) Irrigation and Drainage (US$29.3 million, 9.5 percent of total base costs). The objective of this
component was to reclaim wasteland for irrigated paddy cultivation, convert low-yield corn areas into
irrigated wheat, develop saline-alkaline land for production of flax for seeds, and solve water logging
problems by financing investment in construction and improvement of low-lift surface irrigation and
drainage networks and installing pumping stations and sinking wells to provide additional water. Planned
sub-components included: (i) the reclamation of 6,200 hectares of saline-alkaline wasteland for paddy
cultivation in seven counties in Liaoning Province; (ii) the conversion of 21,300 hectares of low-yielding
and sand erosion susceptible land from dryland corn to irrigated wheat in ten counties in Liaoning
Province; (iii) the construction of the Song Qi irrigation scheme in Jilin Province which included 2,660
hectares of newly irrigated land and rehabilitation of 930 hectares; (iv) the construction of the Song Po
irrigation scheme which brought approximately 4,500 hectares under irrigation; (v) the financing of a dam
safety initiative for Fengman Reservoir which supplies water to the Song Qi and Song Po irrigation
schemes; (vi) conversion of over 2,000 hectares of rain fed dry-land corn to irrigated wheat in Liaoning
Province's Fuyu County using ground water reserves; and (vii) the improvement of 11,500 hectares of
drainage poor and waterlogged areas in Jilin Province's Nong An County.
(b) Soil and Water Conservation (US$4.0 million, 1.5 percent). The objective of this component was to
implement engineering and biological measures to conserve soil and water in 11 micro watersheds located
in Shuangyang County of Changchun Prefecture, Jilin Province. Planned activities included building check
dams, gully protectors, interceptor channels and associated cross-drainage structures. Other planned
activities included planting larch, poplar and fruit trees. In order to provide adequate water for the growth
and maintenance of these trees, catchment areas to create small reservoirs and deep tube-wells were to be
built.
(c) Field Crop Development (US$21.6 million, 7.0 percent). The objective of this component was to
diversify agricultural crops from corn to wheat and paddy. Planned activities included fertilizer purchase,
crop development, medicinal herb plantations, revolving fund activities, and research and training.
Approximately 14,000 tons of incremental fertilizer in Liaoning Province and 14,400 tons of incremental
fertilizer for Jilin were planned for purchase. The fertilizer was to be used in irrigated paddy and wheat
cultivation over the five-year project implementation period. The plan was for the project to purchase
fertilizer inputs and sell to farmers. Moreover, a revolvingfund was to be established with sales proceeds
and used to procure agricultural inputs and experiment with growing high value crops in green houses. To
facilitate the preparation of large pieces of land within limited periods, the project planned to support
farmer groups and associations in purchasing tractors and farm implements. In addition, this component
aimed to provide seeds, fertilizer, storage facilities, training and transportation to support the cultivation of
eight species of medicinal plants on 1,333 ha in Kazuo county. It also was to support the development of
about 992 ha of seed production base for flax in Qian An county.
(d) Orchard Development (US$30.3 million, 9.8 percent). The objective of this component was to
enhance orchard development in the region by financing the planting of high value fruit trees. In Liaoning,
the project planned to provide financing for new orchards and improvement of the existing orchards
- 3 -



covering a total area of 15,400 hectares. The principle fruit trees included Apple-pears, and Apricots. The
component also consisted of financing the purchase of farm inputs such as budded plants, urea, DAP,
agro-chemicals, and hired labor; the construction of irrigation facilities, and the acquisition of small
machinery and tools. It also planned training of farmers and technicians. In Jilin, the project was to finance
the establishment of 5,000 ha of new Apple-Pear plantations; and inputs and services. It also planned the
purchase of 10 vehicles and 15-hp tractors. Funds were also to be provided for training one person in each
participating family for two days two times a year for five years; and in training county, township and
village technicians at Jilin Agricultural University.
(e) Livestock Development (US$59.2 million, 19.2 percent). The objective of this component was to
increase the production of farm animals. Several activities that were to be financed included (i) cattle
fattening. In Liaoning, the project would finance the purchase and fattening of about 33,060 cattle annually
by 6,612 households in 10 counties. Credit was also to be provided for the construction of a cattle sheds,
feed storage facilities and a green silage pits; (ii) cattle breeding. In Liaoning, the project would finance
approximately 6,720 breeding cows to an estimated 2,240 households in Kangping, Dengta and Yixian
counties. A total of 747 farmers selected across the participating counties/cities were to receive three in-calf
heifers or second-calving cows in the first year. Thereafter, 747 farmers were to join the scheme both in
the second and third years. The activity also included financing for animal-health costs; (iii) cattle breeding
and fattening. In both provinces, a total of 13,500 smallholder families from eight counties were to be
provided with credit to purchase approximately 40,500 pregnant heifers or second-calving cows,
construction materials for cattle sheds, feed stores, green silage pits. They were also to be provided
working capital to cover operating costs during the first year; (iv) feedlots. In Siping prefecture (Jilin), the
project would finance 180 feedlot units, each managed by a group of 5-6 farmers to fatten 30 cattle in a
180-day fattening period and turn out 60 fattened cattle per year; (v) sheep breeding. Approximately 5,000
farmers from four villages in Changling and 1,000 households in Fuxin were to be provided with 25 ewes,
construction of the sheep and a green silage pits and working capital to cover the feeding, breeding and
health costs for the first year of operation. These farmers were to build up flocks of 80 ewes by the ninth
year and stabilize at that level; (vi) additional activities under this component included rabbit production,
nucleus rabbit stud, deer stud, deer production, goose breeding and fattening, and pig fattening.
(f) Livestock Processing (US$32.1 milion, 10.4 percent). The objective of this component was to
provide facilities to process livestock purchased from farmers financed to breed and raise livestock as per
the previous component This component was envisaged to finance the construction of cattle, sheep, goose,
rabbit and deer abattoirs. Specifically, this component financed (i) the rehabilitation of one 30,000 head
per year cattle abattoir and a 600-ton cold storage in Changtu County, Liaoning Province on the site of an
existing but rundown slaughter house; (ii) the construction of one new 50,000 head per year cattle abattoir
in Dehui County, Jilin Province with a fully imported production line; (iii) the reconstruction of the existing
cattle abattoir at Shuangliao to its full 50,000 head per year capacity using locally funded equipment; (iv) a
new 500,000 head per year sheep abattoir and a 1,500-ton cold store in Changling to service the sheep
breeders in the project area; and (v) support services such as artificial insemination, feed quality control,
pasture development and livestock extension. Moreover, this component supported extension programs in
participating counties in both provinces, financed livestock research on different topics such as comparison
of different grassland improvement techniques, and evaluated the performance and quality of different beef
cattle crosses.
(g) Aquaculture Development (US$20.4 million, 6.6 percent). The objective of this component was to
assist the aquaculture sector in production for both domestic consumption and for export. This component
envisaged the financing of the following activities: (i) shrimp culture rehabilitation over 13,000 hectares of
ponds in Dawa County, upgrading of pumping stations and mechanical excavation of existing ponds to a
-4 -



depth of three meters; (ii) establishment of 725 hectares of bay scallop culture; (iii) hard and short-neck
clam culture over 13,350 hectares of intertidal areas along the coast in five counties; (iv) construction of a
river crab hatchery and culture over 134 hectares; (v) shellfish hatchery construction capable of producing
200 million scallop seeds per year; (vi) construction of two fully equipped freezing and cold storage plants
in Suizhong and Jinxian, and rehabilitate the existing cold store in Xincheng to international standards; (vii)
development of a program of local training to strengthen the skills of farm technicians, managers, hatchery
operators, farmers, and fish processing technicians; and (viii) provisions for a laboratory and analytical
equipment, field observation and monitoring equipment, microcomputers, and office equipment and vehicles
to enable the Bureau of Aquatic Products, Marine Research Institute and extension services to function
more effectively and conduct regular monitoring of the environment, particularly in the project areas.
(h) Agro-Processing (US$106.5 million, 34.5 percent). The project envisaged the financing of 14
agro-processing subprojects (8 in Liaoning and 6 in Jilin), including an apple juice processing plant, protein
processing plant, pectase processing plant, hawthorn processing plant, mushroom processing plant, furfural
processing plant, paper mill, oil processing plant, alcohol manufacturing plant, rice straw paper mill,
leather tannery, gelatin processing plant, textile mill, and modified starch plant. Bank funds would cover
expenditures for land purchase, construction of buildings, purchase of equipment, vehicles and development
and implementation of training programs. Incremental working capital for each subproject was financed as
was investments to mitigate environmental problems such as wastewater and effluent treatment All
subprojects were designed to generate significant value-added benefits from purchase of nearby project
beneficiary produced products and to generate off-farm employment in the project areas.
(r) Institutional Support/Project Management (US$5.3 million, 1.7 percent). A project management
structure was designed with implementation responsibility for the Governments of participating provinces,
guiding and supervising the work of the implementing unit directly below it. Specifically, the project aimed
to strengthen the PPMOs, provide training and technical assistance (TA), and support environmental
protection programs and those institutions responsible for monitoring the environment. This component
was envisaged to finance (i) the construction of the PPMOs in Liaoning and Jilin Provinces, equipping
them with furniture, teaching equipment and vehicles; (ii) training for 510 personnel for short periods in
project-related subjects, including engineering management, financial administration, accounting, auditing,
material procurement, loan assessment and project appraisal. Overseas training and study tours were also
planned for 50 project staff; and (iii) environmental monitoring programs for environmental monitoring in
Bo Sea, pesticide management, and effluent management.
3.4 Revised Components:
There was    no revision of components. However, because of implementation logistics of the
agro-processing and livestock processing components, the financing for these two components were
combined into a single component called "Agro-Processing Component". Almost all of the originally
pre-identified agro-industrial units to be financed were dropped. Moreover, for the purposes of the ICR,
and for ease of explanation and comparison to project at entry, the description of each component remains
as originally envisaged with only combined project financing and disbursement reflected throughout.
Moreover, in May 2001 the Jilin PPMO requested that available funds from the Bank credit be used to
complete agro-processing activities, expand agro-processing units that had demonstrated commercial
success, and expand high income generating livestock breeding and production activities. The rationale for
expansion of the processing units was based on the excellent benefit flows from the factories that had
commenced production. The rationale for expanding livestock activities was two fold: (i) to enlarge the
scale of two very successful activities, cow breeding and pig raising; (ii) to better target the poorest
households in each proposed project village who may have not had the opportunity to participate in the
- 5-



project thus far. In November 2001, the Bank reviewed, appraised, and approved each proposal submitted
by the PPMO for expansion.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project design predates the existence of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), and as a result, there is
no official assessment of the project's quality at entry. Nevertheless, the ICR finds the quality at entry to be
satisfactory. As mentioned earlier, the project objectives were consistent with Government priorities and
met the critical needs of China's agricultural sector, particularly those for northeast China. Some
noteworthy and unique features:
* Since the implementing agencies had the required administrative, financial, and technical capacity, the
quality of project design was generally adequate to meet the project's principle objective. During
preparation of the project, major risk factors and lessons learned from other earlier agricultural projects in
China were considered and incorporated into the project design. In addition, during project preparation,
pre-appraisal and appraisal, the Bank brought in relevant expertise to strengthen the implementation of
activities.
* This project is unlike many other early 1990s Bank financed projects in China since the initial project
design specifically targeted women's participation as one of its core objectives, thereby attempting to
mainstream gender throughout the project components and the project cycle.
* During preparation and pre-appraisal missions, the Bank and FAO discarded the less consistent
sub-projects, which could not be eliminated by the PPMOs due to local political pressure. Thus the initial
100 plus processing sub-projects where eventually reduced to about twelve. Likewise, poor-quality
proposals (about 75 factory proposals) were discarded as being irrelevant to the project, or unacceptable
technologies, or too poorly conceived to be useful. Better quality proposals that were relevant to the project
were worked on by the local design teams and international experts to bring them up to standards. Even
with this intervention, only a minority of agro-processing units are operational today.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The bulk of project activities were completed two years prior to project close and the project's objectives
and outputs were substantially achieved. The one year project extension was used to encourage the
deepening of poverty targeting and expansion of those activities that had a proven track record of
increasing agricultural on and off farm incomes. As a result of the government's policies and the Bank
financed project, the rural landscape has transformed into a highly efficient and diversified agricultural
base since project launch. Agricultural production and productivity in these two provinces has increased
considerably, with over 700,000 farm families directly benefiting from the project and another two million
households benefiting indirectly from the project. The agro-processing component is responsible for direct
employment of over 5,600 non-farm jobs and livestock processing plants annually purchase livestock from
project households raising cattle, geese, sheep, and deer.
Household survey data and focus group discussions suggest that the economic and social benefits of the
project in both provinces were substantial. The project resulted in the improvement of rural economy and
raised the quality and output of the agricultural and livestock products. Many farmers have been lifted out
of poverty because of their engagement in crop diversification and "sustainable system fanning", which
includes household engagement in agriculture and livestock simultaneously, instead of engaging and
specializing in only one activity, as was the case before the project. As a result of a "systems" approach,
- 6 -



the waste products of crops was used to feed livestock, and the waste product of livestock was used to
fertilize crops. Contracts were established between project households raising livestock and those project
financed livestock slaughtering houses. As a result, project households had a ready market for their
livestock. With the advent of irrigation through the construction of the Song Qi and Song Po irrigation
schemes, the cropping pattem changed from predominantly low value maize to entirely high value paddy
with yields increasing by over two tons per hectare on those irrigated lands where irrigation was
rehabilitated. Moreover, because of more efficient pumping, the water supply improved and the cost of
electricity for pumping was reduced.
Overall, output value of project financed activities has increased by over 2.9 billion Yuan per year. This
includes an annual contribution of 60 million Yuan from the irrigation and drainage component, 270
million Yuan from the environment protection components, 150 million Yuan from the orchard component,
900 million Yuan from the livestock component and 1,500 million Yuan from the operational
agro-processing units. In particular, conversion of over 21,500 ha land from dryland corn to irrigated
paddy and wheat has diversified on-farm incomes. Per capita income of project beneficiary households
grew an average of 8 percent per year, with per capita income rising from 1,000 Yuan to 2,300 Yuan (in
real terms) over the almost ten year project implementation period.
Status of Women and Female Participation. The project resulted in improving women's access to
on-farm and off-farm project activities, and therefore their status in society. According to an assessment of
gender impacts conducted at the end of the project (see Annex 8 for a summary of the study findings), as
household income increased from project activities, the quality of life of women in particular, improved
significantly. Moreover, the technical capability of women to implement project activities improved
through their attendance of training workshops organized by provincial and county PMOs. Specifically,
women participated in training for pesticide application, prevention of livestock disease, fertilizer
application and fruit tree care. Finally, women's decision-making power over the family budget improved
significantly as a result of increases in income from project activities. Finally, over 500,000 people were
trained in some technical skill necessary to implement the project. Remarkably, approximately 50 percent
were women (see Section 4.5 for a discussion on the evolving nature of female empowerment).
Environmental Impacts. The environment has improved as a result of the project in the following ways,
(i) irrigation and drainage works construction greatly reduced the frequency of the natural disasters, such
as drought and flood; it has also prevented soil erosion; improved the soil structure; and increased the soil
fertility. For example, Wazhonggao and Huajia Drainage Improvement Schemes resulted in improving
cropping patterns and greater use of inputs due to farmers having confidence that their crops would not be
destroyed by floods; reducing crop losses and damage to houses and other infrastructure due to flooding;
(ii) channels and dams were built to protect trees. The coverage of plantation increased, and the ecological
environment of 11 valleys of the semi-mountainous areas are reported to have improved; (iii) the orchard
component increased the vegetation of barren hills, thereby reducing soil erosion; and, (iv) excrement of
cattle, sheep, deer and geese were used as organic fertilizers to increase the output of crops and to improve
soil conditions. Finally, each Bank-financed agro-processing unit was required to construct an effluent
treatment facility in compliance with state environmental protection standards.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Irrigation and Drainage (US$40.1 million, 9.6 percent of expenditures). The component is rated
highly satisfactory due to its generating significantly higher yields from higher value crops, and due to the
corresponding socio-economic benefits gained by thousands of poor households. Achievements of physical
targets is high and incomes have more than doubled among project beneficiary households. The component
reclaimed over 6,200 hectares of saline-alkaline wasteland, converted over 21,000 hectares of dryland corn
- 7 -



to irrigated wheat in ten counties, constructed the Song-Qi and Song-Po irrigation schemes, bringing over
3,590 and 4,500 hectares under irrigation, respectively, financed a dam safety initiative for Fengman
Reservoir, and improved over 11,500 hectares of poorly drained and waterlogged areas. A majority of the
irrigation investment went to run of the river irrigation systems. However, tube wells were also financed
with corresponding pumping stations. One concern not adequately addressed, however, is the long-term
sustainability of the ground water supply. Some key outcomes and outputs that merit further detail are
outlined below:
* Irrigation: The contribution of the Song Qi and Song Po irrigation schemes have transformed the rural
agricultural landscape significantly, even beyond the project area. Moreover, these two schemes and those
project staff responsible for managing the implementation of this component have been formally recognized
by the Provincial Government for their outstanding contribution to agricultural development. All 3,590
hectares identified in the SAR as the target area under the Song Qi scheme are receiving irrigated water.
Productive output of rice has increased from 5.25 tons to 7.5 tons per hectare, and per capita income
among beneficiary households has increased by over 100 percent, lifting several thousand individuals out of
poverty over the course of the project. Similarly, the Song Po irrigation scheme exceeded its SAR coverage
target of 4,500 hectares. The productive capacity of irrigated rice in this area has increased by 300
kilograms per hectare per crop, with income rises of approximately 844 Yuan. Moreover, training was
received by 45 technicians, 120 farmer technicians and 2,230 beneficiary farmers.
* Drainage: The Wazhonggao and Huajian drainage improvement subcomponent in Nong An was
successfully completed in 1996-97 to serve an area of 5,200 ha at Huajia and 6,500 ha at Wazhonggao.
Finally, the Fuyu (Song Yuan) groundwater irrigation scheme has had tremendous impact on productivity
and income. Before the improvement, the output of corn per hectare was approximately 5,000 kilos at 0.8
Yuan/kilo. However, after the improvement, per hectare irrigated wheat yielded 7,500 kilos at 2.0
yuan/kilo. Similarly, outputs under Conversion sub-projects include construction of 570 deep wells
(including 120 electric wells), 450 diesel wells, and 874 shallow wells; 215 km power lines for
transmission and distribution; and 600 pump houses. Output under wheat project included: 2153 wells
including 976 electric wells, 977 diesel wells and 200 other types of wells; 644 well houses; and 780 km
power lines for transmission and distribution. In addition, 21,920 person-days of training was given to
technicians at the County, Township and Village level, including 4,012 person-days of training for female
technicians.
(b) Soil and Water Conservegion (US$5.9 million, 1.4 percent). The component is rated satisfactory
since it adequately implemented engineering and biological measures to conserve soil and water in 11 micro
sheds in Shuangyang County of Changchun Prefecture, Jilin Province. The component financed the
building over one dozen check dams, gully protectors, interceptor channels and associated cross-drainage
structures. Biological measures consisted of planting several thousand hectares of larch, poplar and fruit
trees. In order to provide adequate water for the growth and maintenance of these trees, several dozen
catchment areas were built to create small reservoirs and deep tube-wells were drilled.
(c) Field Crop Development (UJ$60a9 million, 14. 7perceat). This component is rated highly satisfactory
since crops were adequately diversified from com to irrigated wheat and paddy, and high value cash crops
growing within greenhouses. Each sub-component, fertilizer purchase, crop development, medicinal herb
cultivation, vegetable greenhouses (and other revolving fund activities), and research & training outputs far
exceeded planned investments.
-8 -



* Fertilizer: Over 28,000 tons of fertilizer was purchased for irrigated paddy and wheat cultivation and
several thousand farmers gained access to this input whereas before the project they had limited access to
high nutrient fertilizer.
* Crop Development: The project developed unproductive saline and alkaline soil into productive land
with irrigation facilities, improved seeds and fertilizer. This activity involved 57,718 households (230,872
beneficiaries) in 6 Cities, 11 Counties, 88 Townships and 525 Villages. Total output from project-financed
investments exceeded 42,643 tons of paddy, 68,300 tons of wheat, 34,700 tons of corn, 6,836 tons of
soybean and 94,400 tons of high value vegetables.
* Medicinal Herbs: The development of 1,333 hectares of Chinese Medicinal Herbs was completed in
1998. The project sites were located in six Townships and 72 Villages and involved over 20,000 farm
households. A medicinal herb processing plant was also set up to provide production inputs and a market
linkages to farmers.
* Vegetable Greenhouses: Approximately 18,300 greenhouses were constructed, covering 1,236 ha of land
to grow high value cash crops such as cucumbers, leeks, tomatoes, egg plants, and other vegetables. The
total project production of vegetables was 45,885 tons which provided an average net income of Y5,700
per greenhouse. The project was located in 106 villages and involved over 4,913 households. Moreover,
913 technicians and 9,650 farmers were trained.
* Research and Training: Four special studies were financed, Integrated Pest Management of Wheat,
Pest Control for Rice, Groundwater Assessment and Water Balance, and Typical Design of Tubewell
Irrigation. Moreover, 39,143 person-days of training were administered to technicians, of which 5,923
person-days was for training female technicians. There was also 117,822 person-days of farmer training,
of which 40,059 person-days were for female farmers.
(d) Orchard Development (US$34.4 million, 8.3 percent). This component is rated satisfactory. High
value fruit trees were planted across both Liaoning and Jilin Provinces. In Liaoning Province,
sub-component activities covered seven Counties and three State Farms in Jinzhou, Chaoyang and Huludao
in westem Liaoning and Haicheng City in southern Liaoning. Over 250,000 apple trees were planted over
3,000 hectares and accomplishing 100 percent of the SAR target; 270,000 apple trees were grafted
covering 4,658 hectares, and over 1,240 hectares of existing apple orchard were rehabilitated. Over
289,000 pear trees were planted covering over 3,000 hectares of land and 1,000 ha of existing pear
orchards were rehabilitated; Over 160,000 Yinbai apricot trees were planted in the project area covering
over 2,000 hectares, 4,726 Dabian apricot trees were planted covering 2,740 hectares. Finally, one nursery
was established on an eleven hectare tract of land. In Jilin Province, this subcomponent was designed to
plant approximately 5,000 hectares of apple-pear. At project completion, over 8,000 hectares of apple-pear
were actually planted with over 4.8 million trees, achieving 130 percent of the SAR original plan. In total,
10 vehicles and 15-hp tractors were also purchased.
(e) Livestock Development (US$88.0 million, 21.2 percent). This component is rated satisfactory and
project outputs far exceeded the planned SAR outputs. In Liaoning Province, approximately 22,000
households in 6 prefectures and 13 counties participated in this component. In total 6,633 farm households
participated in cattle fattening and at project close, 274,000 cattle were fattened and marketed; 3,365 farm
households participated in breeding 16,300 cows, of which 4,000 were marketed as beef cows, another
4,000 as young cows for sale, and the remaining for dairy; over 1,000 farm households participated in
sheep breeding and fattening. In total, the project produced over 30,000 mature ewes and a total of 140,000
-9-



sheep were marketed and 1,090 tons of wool was produced; 148 farm households participated in raising
890 deer and over 2.5 tons of pilose antlers were produced and sold; over 9,000 families produced 765,000
commercial geese for market annually; and, 2,925 households were engaged in rabbit breeding which
produced millions of rabbits. In Jilin Province, approximately 43,486 farmer beneficiaries participated in
these activities of which 23,889 or 56 percent were women. 25,831 households participated in cattle
breeding and by the end of the project, more than 104,955 cattle had been sold to slaughter; sheep breeding
produced over 500,000 sheep of which 200,000 were sold for slaughter; 1,200 deer raising households
produced 9,000 deer and 2,700 kilos of antlers for sale; 7,560 farmers raised geese, of which 83 percent
were women; 3,375 households participated in pig-raising activities and over 300,000 were sold to
slaughter.
() Livestock Processing (Please see component H and explanation in Section 3.4). This component is
rated marginally satisfactory, but could become satisfactory as a result of private sector joint-venture
partners now investing in these plants. In total, five livestock processing plants were either newly
constructed or rehabilitated under the project, including a geese slaughterhouse, a sheep slaughterhouse and
three beef cattle slaughterhouses. Of the five, two are not yet operational due to County counterpart
financing problems. Of the remaining three operational plants, one has ceased operation as a result of a
dispute between the owners, De Hui County authorities and project farmers. Once these issues are resolved
(which is likely) due to significant demand for untainted meat (no hoof and mouth disease, etc) both within
and outside China, the processing plants will be able to slaughter and export thousands of tons of meat
annually to overseas markets, thereby also further increasing income to farm households supported by the
project to breed and fatten livestock purchased by these slaughterhouses.
(g) Aquaculture Development (US$26.8 million, 6.4 percent). This component is rated satisfactory.
Under this component, all planned sub-projects, with the exception of shrimp culture have been completed
since 1996. (i) Planned shrimp farm development was halted due to the threat of aquatic disease; (ii)
Approximately 9,138 rafts of scallops were developed, (iii) one scallop hatchery was constructed, 10,700
hectares of hard clams were developed, 6,333 hectares of short-neck clam cultivation was developed, (iv)
733 hectares of mature river crab and 400 hectares of river bottom crabs were developed, a river crab
hatchery was constructed, and annual research was conducted on the environmental condition of Liaodong
Bay; (v) a shellfish hatchery was constructed; (vi) two cold storage plants were constructed; and (vii)
provisions for a laboratory and analytical equipment, field observation and monitoring equipment,
microcomputers, and office equipment and vehicles to enable the Bureau of Aquatic Products, Marine
Research Institute and extension services to function more effectively and conduct regular monitoring of
the environment, particularly in the project areas were developed.
(l) Agro-Processing (US$154.3 million, 37.1 percent). This component combined the originally
conceived livestock processing component in the SAR. This component is rated satisfactory for Jilin
province, but unsatisfactory for Liaoning and overall. Only one of eight Bank-financed agro-processing
plants are currently operational in Liaoning Province, whereas four of six plants are operational in Jilin
Province. Of the five operational plants, Liaoyuan Textile Mill, Lishu Alcohol Plant, and Da'an Gelatine
Mill can be regarded as fully successful. Yushu Modified Starch Mill is likely to be fully functioning
sometime in mid-2003.  Those operational plants are in strong financial positions under excellent
management and well defined export markets. Moreover, those operational plants have transformed from
state owned enterprises to semi-private joint-venture partnerships between the County and private sector
entity.
- 10-



(i) Institutional Support/Project Management (US$5.0 million, 1.2 percent). This component is rated
satisfactory. All project management buildings were constructed, 31 vehicles purchased, 34 computers
purchased and 480 person-days of overseas training was achieved. Please refer to the discussion of the
borrower's performance in Section 7.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project as whole is estimated at 22 percent (NPV is 1A2 billion
Yuan; ® 12 percent), which is noticeably lower than 32 percent estimated at SAR. This takes into an
assumption that a majority of the agro-processing plants become operational within the next five years and
fully function over the next 20 years. Without this assumption, the estimated ERR drops to 16 percent.
This detailed analysis is available in the project files.
The significant differences in pre-project and post-project assessment are due to (i) substantial declines in
some agricultural output prices, particularly those for fruits and crops; (ii) failure of some sub-component
activities such as scallop production failure in the constructed hatchery for the Aquaculture component, and
failure of several agro-processing plants; and (iii) the use of a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 1.0
instead of 0.8, leading to increased economic costs of non-tradable inputs, mainly labor and manure.
Nevertheless, an economic return on investments of 22 percent is still robust. A working paper with the
detailed economic analysis is available in the project files.
The economic rate of return analysis for each component is summarized in the table below. The project
costs used in the analysis were based on actual costs incurred as provided by PPMOs and in several cases,
verified by Bank supervision missions. In line with the Bank's recent analysis of agricultural projects of
same nature, a standard conversion factor of one has been used in the analysis, which implies that no
adjustments were needed in converting financial prices for non-tradable to economic prices.
Irrigation  Soil &Water   Field Crops    Orchard       Livestock      Aqua-
& Drainage  Conservation  Development    Development   Development    culture
ERR at ICR    38%         21%           37%            18%            17%           13%
ERR at SAR    57%         25%           42%            47%           27%            26%
Analysis was also carried out for the agro-processing and livestock processing components of the project,
which accounted for 37 percent of the total project costs. Overall, the ERR is approximately 12 percent for
those plants that are currently operational with a range from 5 percent to 22 percent. One analysis was
carried out for those plants that are either currently operational or likely to become operational in the near
future. These enterprises account for 58 percent of the total investment. The retums on those enterprises
which have either suspended production or have not yet entered into operation, or where no reliable data
was available is difficult to quantify (30 percent of total), but the aggregate NPV is likely to be negative.
Investments that were made into plants that were later abandoned amount to approximately 12 percent of
the total.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial analysis has also been conducted for each project component. The Financial intemal rates of
retum (FIRR) for all components (with the exception of agro-processing range) from 11 percent to 30
percent, and illustrated in the table below. Household profitability is satisfactory with incomes rising to
over 100 percent of pre-project levels (in real terms) as a result of project activities in many cases. These
figures are shown in detail in the crop budget analysis available in the project files.
- 1 1 -



Household profitability is particularly high in the case of greenhouse development and goose-raising. Both
activities introduced new technologies to produce high value commodities. The financial rates of return for
crops, orchards, and aquaculture are noticeably lower than SAR estimates of due to the substantial output
price declines and the failure of scallop production (in the case of aquaculture).
Irrigation  Soil &Water   Field Crops    Orchard       Livestock    Aqua-
& Drainage  Conservation  Development   Development   Development    culture
FRR at ICR       26%         22%           30%            17%           17%         11%
FRR at SAR    Over 40%       36%         Over 40 %     Over 40%         27%         25%
The financial performance of the agro-processing and livestock components fell short of the SAR estimates.
Of the enterprises financed by the project, only a few are operating and covering costs at this time. The
delay in construction imposed on by the national financial austerity program in the early years of project
implementation is partly to blame for the lackluster performance of agro-processing component.
Nonetheless, there has been some progress with some of the finms as evidenced in the assessed FRRs.
In Jilin Province, the FRRs of enterprises that are either viable or likely to be viable in the next twelve
months are Liaoyuan Textile Mill's Weaving Section (14%), Liaoyuan Textile Mill (Dyeing Section
(19%), Yushu Modified Starch Plant (11%), Da'an Gelatine Plant (15%), Shuangliao Slaughterhouse
(14%), Taiping Chuan Slaughterhouse (8%), De hui Slaughterhouse (10%), and Nong'An Goose
Slaughterhouse (13%). In Liaoning Province, only Changtu Cattle Slaughterhouse (17%) is currently
having some success, although the Haicheng Apple Juice Plant has yielded a 5% FRR. Analysis of each
Bank-financed enterprise is presented in a working paper in the project files.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is positive and substantial and therefore is rated
satisfactory. The project resulted in significant institutional development impacts at the Provincial,
County/City, and Township levels.
Technical: The project was instrumental in the transfer of knowledge through specific training programs
on specialized areas such as artificial insemination. By their exposure to intemational consultants and the
Bank's experts, the officials were able to expand their knowledge base on specialized areas and issues.
Design Institutes: Agro-processing and livestock processing plants were designed using approximately 20
local institutes. While they were initially designed around old technology at the start of the project, through
intemational technical assistance and joint-venture partnerships, many modified their design and/or were
retrofitted to intemational standards.
Provincial PMOs (PPMOs): The PPMOs were formed specifically for this project, and had little or no
experience of Bank-financed investment projects prior to this one. The PPMOs which consisted of mostly
young and keen personnel seconded from relevant bureaus, were developed into active management teams
by various Bank missions. By Mid-Term Review (MTR), they had developed into good project managers,
and were able to take a very active role in MTR adjustrnents, selecting their additional sub-components
well. In addition, since there was no national PMO, the PPMOs became more accountable for project
implementation. Another positive impact of the project was the creation of a network among the provinces
to learn from each other on both specialized subjects and project management.
- 12-



Women and Women's Federation: Increased participation of women in technical training has led to
enhancing women's knowledge, hence their production and marketing capacity.  Supporting the
diversification of household farm production has produced a shift in the division of productive tasks
between husband and wife, with a greater share of the farming workload taken on by women (thereby
reducing female under-employment). This has contributed to increase women's recognition and status
within the household and in the community.
Increased participation of women in economic activities has also led to an increased presence of women in
local markets and towns - they have become more confident in operating outside the home and village,
more knowledgeable about markets and,tren, , and increasingly visible as economic agents-and in the
political process. Enhanced status of women  the community is allowing them to play an increasingly
active role in village meetings and other insti 'ons. A greater number of women have been elected (or
appointed) to village leadership\ positi ns,  well as People's Congresses and People's Political
Consultative Conferences (at the township leve ,leading to a reduction in political gender gap, to which
the project was one of the contribWtory factors.  cipation in the project of Women's Federation (WF)
cadres at all levels - village, township, county -  increased their knowledge and management capacity.
It has given them the opportunity to be involvedp economic work (as opposed to their traditional family
planning and social issues), to demonstrate their capacity, and to become more visible and perceived as
capable and competent.
The project has contributed to the promotion of a greater number of WF cadres to govemrnment positions,
thereby contributing to a reduction in govemance gender gaps. Participation of the WF in the project has
also helped to raise the profile of the organization itself among other govemment departments, creating
linkages which may lead to the WF's future involvement in other govermment projects, and thereby
promoting a more enabling environment for gender equality.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
* Agricultural Output Price Decline. China continued its market liberalization throughout the project
implementation period and most prices of agricultural commodities have been driven by market forces. The
decline in international prices of major agricultural outputs, in particular of fruits and meats, had an
adverse impact on the project. However, recently project financed livestock processing has been in greater
demand due to declines in demand for European and South American beef affected by foot and mouth
disease.
* Natural Disasters. During the implementation period, there were several natural disasters such as flood,
drought, strong wind and severe cold weather, which had adverse impacts on the cultivation of crops,
vegetables, fruits, livestock, and aqua-products. In Liaoning Province, a flood in 1995 caused great loss to
the crop and livestock projects in Shenyang, Liaoyang, Jinzhou and Tieling. Because of the flood in 1998,
in Qian'an County in Jilin Province, flax planting activities and the processing plant were forced to stop.
The drought which took place in successive four years since 1998 caused losses to the crop and fruit
project in Fuxin and Chaoyang and to aqua-product project in Jinzhou. Moreover, the severe cold weather
in the winter of 2000 caused freeze injury to orchard in Anshan and Jinzhou.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The influence and factors subject to government control have been largely positive. With its continuous
market oriented reforms, both at the macro and sectoral level, the Government has provided a policy
- 13 -



framework to support the development of household-based agriculture as promoted under the project.
Government commitment to the project was high throughout and is reflected in the establishment and
maintenance of both provincial management offices. Moreover, the project was able to adapt adequately to
changing economic systems as it encouraged private sector participation in project activities, particularly in
the implementation of the agro-processing component Transforming state-owned enterprises to a
semi-private ownership structure was considerably challenging. In several cases, foreign private partners
withdrew their offer of partnership after assessing the feasibility of their potential investments and as a
result of break-downs in negotiations with county governments. In some cases, these impasses were
resolved with favorable outcomes, in others, the result was legal battles over contracts. Finally,
counterpart funding shortages throughout the implementation period delayed several activities
In October, 2000, the Intemational Department of the Ministry of Finance in Beijing issued a circular
effective January 2001 that halted all revolving fund programs under Bank-assisted agriculture projects.
This action had an adverse impact on farmers, since thereafter they were not able to use the revolving funds
program for a variety of productive activities.
S.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project management was generally strong and the performance of implementing agencies contributed
substantially to successful project outcomes. There are a few specific issues worth noting:
* In Jilin Province, the PPMO sent their staff out to personally manage the final stages of installation and
commissioning of agro-processing plants. In order to give them authority over these plants, they were all
appointed as Vice Mayors of the County for the period of their stay at the project site. This approach
facilitated in accelerating project implementation.
* In Jilin Province, there was one major change to the organizational structure of the PPMO which
adversely affected the project, particularly the PPMO's financial management capabilities. In the later
stage of project implementation (January 2000), the PBOF created, under the Chinese Government
restructuring program, the External Debt Management Center (EDMC) to monitor and evaluate the overall
external debt level of Jilin Province. A number of PPMO staff, including its financial management officer,
were reassigned to the EDMC. The financial management capacity of the PPMO was therefore
diminished.  This situation was further compounded by the seemingly lack of coordination and
communication between the PPMO and the EDMC, leading to serious delays in reimbursements and
special account replenishments. Several requests for repayment were requested long after the closing of the
project.
* On the project management side, procurement through centralized tendering agencies seemed to be a
challenge for the provincial staff in Jilin PPMO. Moreover, performance of local banks was adversely
affected by their lack of originally committed counterpart funds and working capital. This significantly
delayed civil work construction, and after completion of the factories, it hindered commercial operation.
The Bank assisted by transferning the Ferdlizer Revolving Fund into a working capital revolving fund
which assisted in bringing some of those plants into operation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Actual project costs for this project was US $415.6 million, 9% over the SAR estimates of US$382.3
million. Of the total project costs, IDA financed US $210.12 million, 2.5% more in dollar terms than SAR
estimates. Due to the Dollar/SDR exchange rate fluctuations, the dollar amount available for
disbursements was increased from SAR estimates of US $205 million to US $210.69 million, which was
almost fully disbursed.
- 14 -



There were two budget reallocations during the implementation period. The first was conducted after the
Mid-Term Review since many agro units were cancelled. The second reallocation was conducted in
January 2001 by transferring $9 million earmarked for agro-based processing to cow-breeding, pig raising
and expand those agro-processing units that were currently showing effective management and significant
positive financial returns.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability of the project is likely, but varies from component to component and between
each province.
* Sustainability of sector policies is likely at the policy level because of the commitment of the Central
Govermment and Provincial Governments for the development of diversified agro-industrialization, which
has already increased the farmer's income and living standards.
* Economic sustainability is likely due to on-farm agricultural diversification, making it making it more
competitive and generating bigger economic benefits.
* Sustainability of production is likely due to the excellent management system of the irrigation and
drainage financed activities. Moreover, the yield per unit area of major crops has been substantially
increased, and the establishment of various kinds of livestock specialized households production models has
also very successful. The adoption of modem techniques and management measures in several
non-functioning plants would strengthen the likelihood for sustainability.
* Sustainability of ecology is likely because of the emphasis given by the project on the protection of
natural resources and the improvement of ecological environment.
* Sustainability of local knowledge and institutions is likely due to improvements of social infrastructure
in the project areas. Factors such as enhancing the skills of farmers, increased participation and role of
women in various activities, and improving the quality of life of farmers would ensure social sustainability.
Based on the history of post-project sustainability in other Bank financed ADP projects in China, it is likely
that this project will continue to generate significant benefits to the participating provinces and their rural
populations.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Govermnent is committed to take advantage of the institutional set-up of the project and continue
managing project activities through the existing line-agencies responsible at the local levels. While the
Project Management Offices at the Provincial level may be disbanded, the Provincial Bureaus of Finance
would be responsible for coordinating repayment of the Bank loan. All project financed activities have
been mainstreamed into those technical institutions with the appropriate mandate for that specific activity in
each province. As a result, the technical capacity will be further strengthened as beneficiaries continue to
diversify beyond those activities supported by the project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project is rated satisfactory.
The project's identification was well organized and satisfactory. The Bank took into account the project's
consistency with the government's development priorities. Project objectives were relevant to the countries
needs and in line with the Government and Bank development priorities and strategies.
- 15 -



The Bank, which had a team with a good skills mix, brought in state of the art expertise into project design.
During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and all major
relevant aspects such as technical, financial, economic, institutional, including procurement and financial
management, environmental, sociological, and consistency with the Bank's safeguard policies. In addition,
during project Appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits. The reports and working
papers of Food and Agricultural Organization/Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) were very useful to the
pre-appraisal and appraisal missions, and formed the technical basis of most of the project. The Bank had a
consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project is rated satisfactory. The Bank's
relationship with the client was very cordial and productive. Supervision teams included specialists in
irrigation engineering, agro-industries, agricultural economics, and social development. The mission
Aide-Memoires systematically alerted the government to problems with project execution and suggested
remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with Bank procedures. The Form 590s and PSRs did
realistically rate the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and
project implementation in all aspects except with respect to agro-processing components. In addition,
whenever delays in implementation occurred, the Bank was able to define concrete steps and a timetable for
putting the program on track. The Bank paid sufficient attention to the project's likely development impact.
The quality of advice and the follow-up on advice and agreed actions were adequate. Loan covenants were
enforced and remedies were enforced. The staff also showed flexibility in suggesting needed modifications
in implementation. External consultants were used for specific aspects of project components. Bank staff
worked closely with the govermment and the implementing agencies and provided them with extensive
assistance on various aspects of project implementation.
However, the supervision effort was inadequate for the agro-processing component. Over the eight years of
project implementation, there were only 10 supervision missions, with at least one mission per year. This
was inadequate to address the complexity of the various start-ups financed under the agro-processing
component It is clear ex-post that the client given their limited experience with private enterprises possibly
underestimated their task and needed appropriate guidance. The supervision team also could have started to
focus earlier on poorer households when the various income opportunities devised under the project started
to show success.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance during project preparation, appraisal and implementation is rated
satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project is rated satisfactory. During the preparation
stage, the Borrower displayed an adequate level of commitment to the objectives of the project and covered
the adequacy of design and all major aspects such as technical, financial, economic, institutional,
environmental and sociological factors, including stakeholder commitment. The government officials and
staff of the implementing agencies at the provincial, municipal, and county levels worked closely with the
Bank's project team on a continual basis, with full cooperation and enthusiasm.
-16 -



7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government consistently maintained its high level of commitment throughout the implementation of this
project and is therefore rated satisfactory. Government officials were always available and cooperative.
However, the project did not have a national PMO and therefore the central contact point was at the
Provincial level. For the purpose of this discussion, Government refers to the Provincial Government.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency in both Jilin and Liaoning Provinces is rated satisfactory.
In Jilin Province, the Government was innovative as PPMO staff were appointed as Honorary Mayors in
each county where each agro-processing unit was based. This unprecedented move facilitated more
effective project implementation. Moreover, since the PPMO was part of the Provincial Bureau of
Finance, making decisions faster to implement and avoiding issues of counterpart financing for the project.
The PPMO had some technical difficulties during implementation due to changing staff. Very little
implementation activity occurred from 1999 to early 2001, even though there was a significant balance of
funds available for project activities. Moreover, early action was not taken by the PPMO even on those
expansion activities requested by them and approved by the Bank in 1998 (i.e. the extension of 3,000
hectares of new apple-pear planting). However, two years later, by May 2001, the PPMO requested the
Bank to assist them in identifying ways to effectively utilize the remaining balance of Bank loan available
to them, which was achieved satisfactorily. Also problematic to effective implementation was a lack of well
kept procurement files
In Liaoning Province, the PPMO drew upon people with skills from the provincial government to manage
each of the project components, which resulted in good technical output. Procurement and the related
disbursement documents maintained at the provincial level were fully complete and well maintained.
Professional staff were assigned to maintain the files and records.
A considerable imbalance appeared to exist between the technical bureaus in charge of implementing the
project and the financial bureaus responsible for handling the financing of the project. As a result, the
Bank's principle of equal access to all poor households was not met. Unfortunately, sub-loans were
extended to only those households that had the ability to repay at the time of loan signing. While this
mitigated the risk of Provincial Government default on the Bank loan, greater opportunity to access project
activities should have been given to those households falling below the average household income for any
given village.
The PPMO of Liaoning Province, which was independent of the Provincial BOF, faced counterpart funding
and cash flow problems throughout since Liaoning Provincial BOF to exert influence over technical matters
best left to those technical line agencies responsible.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory. The government and the implementing
agencies have been committed to the project since the very beginning of preparation, and its shortcomings
in terms of counterpart funds or some other aspects of project management are minor compared to the
overaU effective management of the project.
- 17-



8. Lessons Learned
* For better project implementation and results, the Bank should avoid "Christmas Tree" type of projects
with too many components and activities financed from one project. This is particularly true for projects
containing multiple processing "start-ups" which require disproportionately more resources for supervision.
Bank projects smaller in size and scope would be better and more manageable, and project impacts can be
evaluated in a more comprehensive and therefore meaningful way.
* Identifying women's participation as a project secondary objective in the SAR facilitated achieving high
rates of female involvement in the project. It was probable that without this up-front identification,
achievements of the project for women would not have materialized In addition, by reinforcing this
message verbally during missions, the Bank was able to ensure that project management paid attention to
gender gaps in participation levels. Requiring the presence of the Women's Federation on project leading
group committees also helped to ensure that there was greater consideration of women's participation in the
project.
* The project could have formulated better poverty-targeting selection criteria, so that the entire rural
population could participate in all the activities sponsored under the project. For instance, under the
project, most household loans were extended to only those who had the ability to repay their loans at the
beginning of the sub-project. These household loans had repayments before adequate income could be
generated from the particular activity. Poorer households who could repay these loans from gains made
from the activity were not considered. A poverty-targeted program would design loan repayment schedules
matching the income expected to be generated from the activity.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
We believe the assessment of the project in the ICR general reflects the actual situation of the project and
we appreciate very much the efforts made by all ICR mission members. We would like to emphasize some
aspects of the project:
1) The design of the project is very successful.
2) The project has achived significant benefits for the people of our province.
3) We think that agro-processing component of the project in Jilin Province is generally successful.
(b) Cofinanciers:
None
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
10. Additional Information
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact           Projected     Actual/Latest Estimate
Indicators:                In last PSR
A. Jiln Province
(i) Agricultural Benefits  Not           Paddy yield increased to 7.5 t/ha.
Applicable    Water supply improved and the cost of electricity
for pumping was reduced
Training given to 270 farmer technicians and
2,570 farmers
Increased the output value by over 2,880 million
Yuan per year
(ii) Economic Benefits                   Increased the income of farmers at the rate of 8%
per year
Eight agro-processing industries under the project
created 5,679 jobs
(iii) Social Benefits                    Improved women's participation, role and status
in society
(iv) Environmental Benefits              Reduced the frequency of the natural disasters,
such as drought and flood
Prevented soil erosion; improved the soil
structure; and increased the soil fertility
Paid more attention on pollution control in the
agro-processing component and intensive
livestock farms
B. Liaoning Province
(i) Agricultural benefits:  Not          Reclaimed 7,739 ha of wasteland for paddy
Applicable    cultivation, converted 20,067 ha of low-yield
corn areas into irrigated wheat, developed
saline-alkaline land for the production of
irrigated wheat
Increased field crop production: (a) rice
production increased to 300,000 tons; (b) wheat
production increased to 560,000 tons; (c) maize
production increased to 310,000 tons, (d) soy
bean increased to 17,000 tons; (e) medical herb
increased to 18,000 tons
Production of apples increased to 160,000 tons,
pears increased to 31,500 tons, Yinbai apricot
increased to 588 ton
-19-



(ii) Economic Benefits                  Increased the income of farmers by 122% more
than in 1993
Jobs were provided to 240,800 farmers in the
irrigation and crop component, 23,000 farmers
in livestock component, 910,000 farmers in
orchard component, about 4,000 farmers in
aqua-product component and about 1,000
farmers in processing component.
(iii) Social Benefits                   Improved women's participation, role and status
in society
(iv) Environmental Benefits              Reduced the frequency of the natural disasters,
such as drought and flood
Prevented soil erosion; improved the soil
structure; and increased the soil fertility
Paid more attention on pollution control in the
agro-processing component and intensive
livestock farms
Output Indicators          Projected    Actual/Latest Estimate (SAR targets in
in last       parenthesis)
PSR
A. Jrin Province
(i) Irrigation and Drainage  ot         Song Qi irrigation scheme constructed - over
Applicable    2,660 (2,660) hectares of newly irrigated land and
rehabilitation of 930 (930) hectares. Yield
increasedfrom 5,250 kilo to 7,500 kilo per
hectare
Song Po irrigation scheme constructed - brought
approximately 4,500 (4,500) hectares under
irrigation. Yield increased by 300 kilo per ha
Dam safety initiative for Fengman Reservoir
undertaken
11,500 (11,500) hectares of drainage poor and
waterlogged areas improved
45 technicians, 120 farmer technicians and 2,230
beneficiary farmers trained
(ii) Orchard Development                New orchards and improvement of the orchards
covering a total area of 8,000 (5,000) hectares
completed, 4.8 million trees planted
- 20 -



(iii) Livestock Development             (a) Cattle Breeding: 25,831 households participated
in cattle breeding and by the end of the project,
more than 104,955 cattle had been sold by them
(b) Sheep Breeding: 500,000 of sheep on hand
(c) Deer Production. Deer-raising households
reached 1,200
(d) Geese Breeding and Raising. 7,560 farmers
participated in geese breeding
(e) Pig Breeding: 3,375 households participated
in pig-raising
B. Liaoning Province      l_l_l
(i) Irrigation and Drainage  Not         Over 6,200 (6,200) hectares of saline-alkaline
Applicable    wasteland for paddy cultivation reclaimed
Over 21,000 (21,300) hectares of low-yielding
and sand erosion susceptible land converted
from dryland corn to irrigated wheat
Over 2,000 (2,000) hectares of rain fed
dry-land corn converted to irrigated wheat
Paddy project: 570 deep wells; 215 km power
lines for transmission and distribution; and 600
pump houses
Wheat project: 2,153 wells; 644 well houses; and
780 kmn power lines for transmission and
distribution.
(ii) Field Crop Development              Over 28,000 (14,000) tons of fertilizer purchased
for irrigated paddy and wheat cultivation -
farmers had limited access to high nutrient
fertilizer before
(a) Crops. Involved 57,718 households (230,872
beneficiaries) Yield - Paddy 7.5 t/ha; Wheat 6
tlha
(b) Medicinal Herbs. 1,333 ha of Chinese
medicinal herb plantings developed
(c) Vegetable Greenhouses. 18,300 greenhouses
constructed, covering 1,236 ha of land
(d) Research and Training: 39,143 person-days
of training given to technicians, including 5,923
person-days training for female technicians.
117,822 person-days of training was given to
farmers, including 40,059 person-days training
for female farmers.
-21 -



(iii) Orchard Development.               (a) Apple Orchard: 9,898 (11,257) hectares of
new and rehab. of apple orchards
(b) Pear Orchard: 4,000 (1,333) hectares of new
and rehab. of pear orchards
(c) Apricot Orchard: 4,740 (2,850) hectares of
new and rehab. of pear orchards
(iv) Livestock Development               About 24,000 (22,000) households participated
in the livestock component and were earning
income in addition to income from crop
production
(v) Aquaculture Development              9,138 rafts of scallop cultivated; One scallop
hatchery constructed with a volume of 650 cubic
water body; About 10,700 ha of clams developed;
6,333 ha of colored clams developed. 733 ha of
mature crab and 400 ha of botton crab cultivated;
Research done on the monitoring of sea
environment in Liaodong Bay
(vi) Agro-Industries                     Three plants in operation.
(vii) Institutional Support              (a) Buildings were purchased for provincial
project management office and training center.
In addition, 3 vehicles, 24 computers, 6 printers
and 1 copier were purchased
(b) Project Offices at Municipal and County
Levels: 28 vehicles, 9 computers, 9 printers and
35 copiers purchased
(c) Training: 2,150 man-day domestic training
and 480 man-day overseas training given to
project officials
(d) Environmental Monitoring: the sea
environment and toxic algae in the cultivation
area were monitored continuously and
monitoring reports were submitted to the World
Bank on a regular basis
-22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Finnancing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
- br vr^-r ,; XI  !              <.                         r,qE.~in1se-" l~'  *tr-aI 
C'imppnfert  4,                    milljpr   US$:-iili oJ    K * ' ' 
Irrigation & Drainage                               29.40          40.10           136
Field Crop Development                              21.50          60.90           283
Orchard Development                                 30.30          34.60           114
Soil and Water Conservation                          4.00           5.90           148
Livestock Development                               59.20          88.00           149
Aquaculture                                         20.40          26.80            131
Agro-Processing                                    138.60         154.30            111
Project Management                                   5.30           5.00            95
Total Baseline Cost                                308.70         415.60
Physical Contingencies                             21.50
Price Contlngencles                                52.10
Total Project Costs            382.30         415.60
Total Financing Required            382.30         415.60
Proect Costs by Procurem t Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)  ._.
expendtura Ca       '!  : p        '                            -   '-' ''
I. Wors                      0.00         42.90         18.20        3.60         64.70
(0.00)       (20.60)      (8.80)        (0.00)      (29.40)
2. Goods                     99.50        45.80         64.70        67.30       277.30
(91.00)       (35.40)      (42.10)      (0.00)      (168.50)
3. Seuvlces                  0.00          0.00         7.10         33.20        40.30
(0.00)        (0.00)       (7.10)       (0.00)      (7.10)
Total                     99.50         88.70        90.00        104.10       382.30
(91.00)      (56.00)       (58.00)      (0.00)      (205.00)
- 23 -



Protect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                                . -
Exndlture Cstegon!          IBB                               2        N.B.F.   .Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00          21.42          48.00         112.00       181.42
(0.00)         (6.82)       (37.19)        (0.00)       (44.01)
2. Goods                       100.98          3.53          94.00         30.82        229.33
(77.80)        (1.01)        (84.70)        (0.00)  .    (163.51)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          4.80                        4.80
(0.00)         (0.00)        (2.60)        (0.00)        (2.60)
Total                        100.98         24.95         146.80        142.82       415.55
(77.80)        (7.83)       (124.49)        (0.00)       (210.12)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2vlncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.  J .                          ,            -             : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage Orppraisal:
.   Component              .^pprfiswi Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate     .      _       "_____
.Eank    .SOVt      CoF.      Bank      Gov.      CoF.     Bank   Govt. ., CoF.:-:
Irrigation & Drainage    15.96     19.62               14.69     25.39              92.0   129.4
Field Crop Development   16.52     6.79                47.76     13.14              289.1  193.5
Orchard Development      19.02     17.70               13.67     20.96              71.9   118.4
Soil & Water Conservation  1.98    2.95                0.53       5.40              26.8   183.1
Livestock Development    32.46     44.68               37.00     50.95              114.0  114.0
Aquaculture              16.02     8.90                13.26     13.51              82.8   151.8
Agro-Processing          98.77     75.36               80.62     73.65              81.6   97.7
Project Management       4.27       1.30               2.59       2.43              60.7   186.9
-24-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The project major objective was to increase agricultural production, farmers' income and rural employment
by boosting the productivity and marketability of agriculture, horticulture, livestock, aquaculture and
agro-industries in the project areas. The main benefits derive from (a) converting surplus corn into
livestock production; (b) shifting the crop pattern away from low-intensity corn to higher intensity, higher
value crops; (c) develop waste and unproductive lands for fruit and aquaculture production; and (d) value
addition through agro-processing industry. These benefits have been quantified and compared to project
costs following basically the methodology used for SAR. Data sources are actual costs from project
records, actual production data and prices obtained from surveys and field visits, and up-dated estimates
for future prices, yields, etc. based on discussions in the fields and estimates of expert from PPMOs.
Financial flows are converted to 2001 equivalent by applying the national CPI.
Incremental costs and benefits for components other than agro-processing are estimated by comparing
"with" and "without" project scenarios. For instance, for new cropland development, the entire costs of the
components and all benefits are incremental as there are no crops produced in the "without" project
situation and opportunity cost of the use of this land is assumed to be zero. New orchard investment covers
land terracing, soil improvement, irrigation facilities and crop establishment. Apart from investment costs,
incremental operation and maintenance costs including water charges for irrigation systems are all taken
into account.
Crop budgets and livestock activity models are developed Liaoning and Jilin separately to reflect the
regional differences. The financial analysis uses actual market prices for inputs and outputs less
transportation and handling costs to reflect farm-gate prices. For the economic analysis tradable farm
inputs and outputs are valued at border (parity) prices. In the case of fruit, aquaculture products and live
animals, which are technically tradable but actually sold in the domestic markets due to quality and trade
restrictions, financial prices are used as proxies for economic prices. Similarly, no further adjustments are
made for non-tradable farm inputs and outputs. In line with the Bank's recent analyses of agricultural
projects of similar nature in China, a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 1 is applied. This implies that
no adjustments are needed for converting financial prices for non-tradables into economic prices. The
province level ERR calculations take into account all incremental benefits and costs as they are arising
according to the actual implementation progress achieved in each province.
Economic analysis has been carried out for 14 agro-processing plants individually. Detailed investment and
operational costs are included for each in the analysis. The revenues are derived from sales generated from
operating capacity achieved from past years and projected values for the future. In view of the fact the
agro-processing products are mostly for domestic use only, and there are no internationally comparable
commodity prices available, the market prices are used as proxies for economic prices. As such, the IRR
before tax and financing, which measures the return on the total resources engaged, has been taken as ERR
for the plant. The noticeable difference between the ERR and FIRR for each plant is mainly caused by the
tax liabilities of the plant.
The ERR calculation for the whole project has taken into account all the incremental benefits and costs in
an aggregated economic cash flow, built up in line with physical achievements of each component. The
ERR for the whole project is estimated at 22 %, which is derived from the weighted ERR average of all
components. The ERR is noticeably lower than the SAR estimate (32%). The main reasons for which are
(i) substantial declines in some agricultural output prices, particularly those for fruits and crops; (ii)
scallop production failure for aquculture component, and (iii) use of SCF of 1 instead of 0.8, leading to the
-25 -



increased economic costs of non-tradable inputs, mainly labour and manure. Nevertheless, an economic
retum on the investments of 22% is still robust. Detailed calculation of the financial and economic analysis
including crop budgets, activity model, ago-processing factory models and aggregation tables in the
Working Papers on project files.
-26-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count         Specialty                    Progress     Objective
Identiflcation/Preparation
11/91                      2   ML/AE, DC
05/92                      7   ML, FS, E, LS, AG, IS, AGS
09/92                     11   ML, FS, E, LS, AG, AE, IE,
APS, LS, AE, AS
Appraisal/Negotiation
03/93                      8   ML/AE, A, IE, ES, AIS,
AQS, LS, SA
07/93                      8   ML/AE, A, IE, LS, AIS, AQS,
WWTS, PA
Supervision
05/94                      5   ML/AE, AIS, PA, CA, IE           HS          HS
10/94                      S   ML/SAE, AQS, LS, AIS, A         HS            S
10/95                      6   ML/SAE, AQS, AIS, A, IE, LS     HS            S
09/96                      5   ML/SAE, LS, AIS, IE, AQS         S            S
02/97                      2   ML/SAE, AIS                      S            S
09/97                      5   ML/SAE, AIS, LS, IE, PA          S            S
10/98                      4   ML/SAE, AIS, PA, LS              S           HS
09/99                      4   ML/SAE, AE, AIS, IE              S            S
05/01                      3   ML/E, AIS, AE                    S            S
10/01                      3   MUE, SDS, AE                     S            S
ICR
06/02                      5    ML/E, SDS, GS, GRA, AE          S            S
A: Agriculturist; AE: Agricultural Economist; AG: Agronomist; AIS: Agro-Industries Specialist;
APS: Agro-Processing Specialist; AQS: Aquaculture Specialist; AS: Agricultural Specialist; CA:
Computer Assistant; DC: Division Chief; E: Economist; ES: Environmental Specialist; FS: Fishery
Specialist; GRA: Gender Research Assistant; GS: Gender Specialist; IE: Irrigation Engineer; IS:
Irrigation Specialist; LS: Livestock Specialist; ML: Mission Leader; PA: Procurement Assistant; SAE:
Senior Agricultural Economist; SDS: Social Development Specialist; SS: Staff Assistant; WWTS:
Waste Water Treatment Specialist.
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation            221.9                     240.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                  61.2                     219.2
Supervision                           181.9                     654.9
ICR                                    25.2                      94.2
Total                                 490.2                    1208.7
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                        O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
Sector Policies                       O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
M Physical                             O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
[ Financial                            O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
0 Institutional Development            0 H  * SU O M   0 N 0 NA
F Environmental                        O H  *SUOM      O N O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction              O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
W Gender                         *H OSUOM ON O NA
Wi Other (Please specify)        OH   OSUOM      ON   * NA
Wi Private sector development          0 H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
W Public sector management             0 H  O SU O M   0 N  * NA
W Other (Please specify)               O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
 Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
 Supervision                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
3 Government implementation performance             O HS * S     0 U   0 HU
 Implementation agencyperformance                  OHS OS       OU    O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS       O U   O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports;
2. Project Progress Reports;
3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project;
4. Jilin Province: Borrower's Evaluation Report (over 100 pages in Chinese)
5. Liaoning Province: Borrower's Evaluation Report (over 60 pages in Chinese)
6. Staff Appraisal Report for China Songliao Agricultural Development Project dated February 1, 1994
(Report No. 12374-CHA)
7. Financial and Economic Analysis:
(i)    FRR Calculation of Tables by Province
(ii)   ERR Calculation of Tables by Province
(iii)  Project ERR Calculation Table
(iv)   Financial and Economic Analyses of Crop Production, Agro-processing, Aquacultural,
Livestock, and other components
8. Gender Impact Study
9. Beneficiary Household Surveys
- 30 -



Additional Annex 8. Gender Assessment -Lessons Learned from Project Design &
Implementation
The Bank financed a comprehensive study assessing the evolving nature of female participation in the
project. While the comprehensive study is available in the project files, some lessons that could enhance
future Bank-financed operations in China are presented below.
Project Design
* Including female participation and gender dimensions as a stated objective of the project;
* Requiring the presence of the Women's Federation (WF) on project leading group committees, and
selecting project components where women are already active (such as animral husbandry) could help to
ensure greater consideration for women's participation in the project;
* Key gender equality indicators (beyond simple sex disaggregated participation figures) can only be
measured if gender studies are conducted before or shortly after project implementation starts. Such
monitoring and evaluation could be mandated in the project's design;
* Broader gender results can better be achieved if there is a solid gender strategy underpinning the project
- ensuring full gender mainstrearning in all project components and throughout the project cycle. The
assignment of gender responsibility to one of the PPMO staff can be part of the strategy. This strategy
must be based on research and must be designed with full local participation;
* Specific attention must be placed on the modalities for specifically targeting female-headed households
and poor women in a project. At present, partners are reluctant to include such beneficiaries because of the
repayment risk they represent. One way of reaching poor women is to include in project funds specific
grants to support the creation of instruments such as micro-finance or revolving funds;
* Provincial and local partners can better support project gender goals when they understand why
women's participation is relevant to the project's economic goals, and if they are involved with gender
experts in determining how best to achieve meaningful participation for women in the project; and
* Because the WE is well represented at all administrative levels and because WF cadres are often in a
good position to be promoted to government or party positions, finding mechanism to involve the WF in a
meaningful manner in the project as an implementation partner does help support Bank goals of reducing
gender inequalities in govemance.
Project Management
(a) World Bank
* Focused gender study or the inclusion of a gender expert on supervision missions can help raise local
awareness of the relevance of gender issues to the development process;
* The Bank cannot assume that local partners are gender aware, understand gender equality issues, know
how to achieve targeted gender results or even know how to monitor for gender results; and
-31 -



* The Bank can support greater and more meaningful women's participation in project decision-making
and management by broadening the project partnership base to include the WF.
(b) PMO and PPMOs
* Greater ownership and support of gender goals can only be achieved with effective gender training,
demonstrating the economic and project efficiency benefits of gender mainstreaming;
* By working with "champion," PPMOs and PMOs can ensure greater support for the project's gender
mainstreaming activities;
* Greater local ownership of gender equality goals could be improved if local leaders and PPMO/PMO
staff could visit demonstration projects where gender mainstreaming has been achieved successfully;
* While the presence of women among PPMO staff is not a sufficient condition to achieve gender equality
goals, it should be considered a necessary condition. It is difficult to promote women's participation and
greater say in a project when PPMO staff members are overwhelmingly male - and where female workers
are all in relatively junior and/or subservient positions;
a Participation in a bank-financed project represents a significant benefit for staff - including capacity
building through work experience, training, study tours and exposure to intemational project management
standards. Project staff members are often promoted to higher positions as a result. This opportunity
should be more equitably shared among male and female staff of partner organizations and setting targets
from the outset is good. But these targets need to be enforced more rigorously in order to produce results;
* Direct partners (such as the provincial Development Planning Commission in Liaoning or Finance
Bureaus at the prefecture and county levels) need to understand early on the advantages of involving the
WF in a more substantial way, in order to maximize project reach and gender results; and
* The WF can play a more active and important role in project planning, implementation, and monitoring
and evaluation (particularly of gender equality indicators). However, the limitations of the organization (in
terms of capacity, funds, power and ability to mobilize necessary government agencies) have to be taken
into account when considering the role the organization can play in any given project This may require
dedicating a set amount of project funds for WF cadre training and to assist WF-managed project elements.
- 32 -



Additional Annex 9. Through Their Eyes: Piroject Empacts Seen 11lirough Project
Beneficiaries' Eyes
During the ICR mission, over 50 disposable carneras were given out to project beneficiaries, covering a
sample of project areas and project activities. They were asked to think about how the Songliao Plain
Agricultural Development Project has impacted their lives and capture it on film; Most of the fifty
participants had never used a camera before, but after a quick demonstration, they were all eager and ready
to go! In total, over 1,000 images of the project and how they have impacted rural peoples are captured on
film. A selection of these images are shared below in the photo essay entitled Through Their Eyes.
Gongzhuling, Jiln Province by Liu Guihua
Lishu, Jilin Province by Kong Qingwei
-33 -



* j E       *s
IrlP 
ZhaProvince by Song Guihong
' I
Zhangwu, Liaoning Province by Song Guihong
-34-



Zhangwu, Liaoning Province by Yang Fei
Shuangyang, Jihin Province by Li Yahui
-                            ,       _    4,-4
Gongzhuling, Jiliby Zhang Shuzhen
-35 -






MAP SECTION






I          \  I             I            I            I             I             1
70°           80°           90,          I 00°        1l0°         I120°          1 30O 
\ ~~~~~~~~RUSSIANI
50                  1J'                             F ED E RAT I ON                               Du7E50
KAZAKHSTAN                         ,,          ,_              ,                    t\    /
f o._ 2 t-e (} ,_ ,./ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HEILONGJIANG 
UZBEKISTAN-_                     ).'                                                    HRN      )
g<^, /_   (  4        (#           ~~~~~M 0 N G O L I A      y.                ,{ 
v  X KYRGYZi % H     S~~~~~~~~~E)URUMQI  '                  _2              f|A     ,    r
/  j  BO'         tz        L.-R           yf      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,t  -4  DE  40M COrO E
Thfs mop wo5 Fd  by  (   \1   \  V   ,*lNt HU4;   r  g   |  H         % ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.VW 
WorloBnicrhbovadsnes,XI .GNS J jTSA SHIANW/G/SRE f
thbMpu-ndona t 8T.          SH             A    ANXIS                  HENNJ \N
W ~  ~   -30       XIZAN The b-,-                               OA                        KOREA,,~-,sHI
CHINA                    A         t CHANGSHAS / NANCHANGs ^ ,. it  % SHAANXI 
SONGLIAO PLAIN. XIANGRIUTRL           d9*      ',''J;#HU4      (NN'JAG
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT        W         < >  , < -,   t         t ! J ]~~~~HUBE
_  Sll11OPAll                 KNMNGS  .    t@|        J  .,f  8  | ASI
S                PnovinceCapiluls t' gYSICUNAN  \ 3PENrGDU, jg> 
_     _ *_ B_B *i 90                                 Wu






CHINA                                        I 25°
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
L 7 PROJECT AREA
17W 2001 EXTENSION AREA FOR DEEPENING POVERTY IMPACTS
PROJECTCOMPONENTS.                                     H E I L    N G J I A N G
RICE PADDY                                      To Dqin9
WHEAT IRRIGATION               -
*  FRUIT PRODUCTION                                                       T. Horbi
w SHEEP
-~PIG
B REEF CATTLE
FERTIUZER BLENDING
@g  SHELLFISH                 T. Ch.ng               Q 
A6 FARM MACHINERY n
A LIVESTOCK PROCESSING
AGRO PROCESSING PLANTS
O MEDICAL HERR
RABBIT                                                                                    '
4DEER
GOOSE
FLAX                                                                           U
ROADS
RAILROADS                 To .onB <
RIVERS
XIAN (COUNTY) BOUNDARIES
- PROViNCE BOUNDARIES                               OL'
-.-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
S-" ! X ~~~Cho.     ,< 
NEI MONGOL                         /              l
YAG                   7
T.~~~ ~ ~ B                                                          Pi      DEMC)CRATIC
t-_<7   en   S  ~  YPUBLIC OF KOREA
t>z.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lO J1O Sea1 AfJ\  2
,X1  ~~J  |2-2-b ;   ~Liaodong Won  4X                                          .
H E cE   I / FDRTO.t _
X (< j/// ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MONGOLIA j 
, Af 80~BH1AI SEA                                                                          'Dfi ''., R'
O     40   810   120   160   200 .                          1}                         t 
KQLOMErER5                                                    .    t    N4\               hn 









IMAGING
Report No.:         24996
Type:      ICR



