Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2563 CHA
(Second Red Soils Area Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 23, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2563 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 23, 1994, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Fujian Province (Fujian), Jiangxi 
Province (Jiangxi), Hunan Province (Hunan), Zhejiang Province (Zhejiang) and Guangxi 
Zhuang Autonomous Region (Guangxi) (the Project Provinces) with the Borrower's 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the 
Project Provinces the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the Project Provinces;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan" means the environmental 
monitoring and management plan for the Project, dated July, 1993 and September 1993, 
agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and the 
Project Provinces, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
"Project Provinces" means each of the Borrower's provinces of Fujian, 
Jiangxi, Hunan, Zhejiang and Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region.
(d)
"PMOs" means the project management offices established by the Project 
Provinces under paragraph D.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred and eight million four hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 108,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Association on terms and 
conditions satisfactory
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the Project dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time 
Page  3
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
January 15 and July 15 commencing
July 15, 2004 and ending January 15, 2029. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on January 15, 2014 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) 
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by 
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some 
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-
mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause the Project Provinces to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the Project Provinces 
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable the Project Provinces to perform such obligations, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Page  4
(b)
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Credit to the 
Project Provinces in amounts corresponding to amounts withdrawn from the Credit 
Account on account of expenditures under their respective parts of the Project on the 
following principal terms and conditions:
(i)
repayment within 17 years, including six years' of grace;
 
(ii)
interest to be paid at a rate of 5.3 percent per annum; and
 
(iii)
the foreign exchange risk shall be borne by the respective Project 
Provinces.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by the Project Provinces pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a)  The Borrower shall maintain the central project coordinating 
office in its Ministry of Agriculture to coordinate Project activities among the 
Project Provinces, including procurement, accounting and training activities, with 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Association, staffed by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall, by May 31, 1997, undertake a mid-term review with the 
Association and the Project Provinces of the progress of and prospects for Project 
implementation.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, 
records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after 
the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail 
Page  5
as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any of the Project Provinces shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that any of the Project Provinces will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council shall have 
approved the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Project Provinces, and is legally binding upon 
the Project Provinces in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated          % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
       Category           SDR Equivalent)      to be financed
(1)    Goods:
   (a) Timber, sand            9,030,000        60%
       and stone
   (b) All other              68,170,000        100% of foreign
       goods (except                            expenditures, 100%
       consumables under                        of local expenditures
       Category (4)(b)                          (ex-factory cost) and
Page  7
       below)                                   75% of local expendi-
                                                tures for other items
                                                procured locally
(2)    Works:
   (a) Force account          13,870,000        30%
   (b) Livestock               4,190,000        30%
       maintenance
   (c) All other works         4,770,000        50%
       (except for
       research under
       Category (4)(b)
       below)
(3)    Operating costs           800,000        30%
       for project
       management
(4) (a)  Training, study       4,630,000        100%
         and consultants'
         services
    (b)  Research                730,000        50%
(5)      Unallocated           2,210,000
                             ___________
         TOTAL               108,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
"operating costs for project management" means expenditures for office 
consumables (including telephone, facsimile and other communications expenses), staff 
travel and associated
subsistence of the project management offices (excluding always salaries and the cost 
of premises) to be calculated in accordance with procedures approved by the 
Association; and
(d)
"livestock maintenance" means the expenditures incurred in accordance 
with the livestock maintenance program under paragraph A.3 of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement for the purposes of Part
A of the Project.
(e)
"research" means the incidental contract labor, consumables (including 
seedlings and telephone, facsimile and other communications and information gathering 
expenses), travel and associated subsistence necessary to carry out the research 
programs under paragraph D.2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 7,230,000 may be 
made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4)(a) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1993.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for civil works by force 
account, for expenditures under contracts for goods and works not exceeding $200,000 
Page  8
equivalent and for expenditures for training and study tours, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in alleviating poverty 
and increasing farmers' incomes in the degraded red soil areas of the Project 
Provinces, through: (a) introduction
of cultivation of cash crops and livestock and agriculture production under household 
management; and (b) improving the infrastructure and support services in these areas.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Land Development and Infrastructure
 
1.
Development by households holding long-term leases of an area of about 52,500 
hectares of degraded red soil land in about 217 watersheds in the Project Provinces 
through terracing, contour
planting, on-farm irrigation and drainage, and construction of farm access roads, to 
promote animal production activities.
2.
Improving and rehabilitating infrastructure in the areas developed under Part 
A.1 above, including enlargement of small reservoirs and ponds, dam and canal 
construction, installation of
pumping stations and sprinkler irrigation systems, rural electrification, road and 
bridge construction and provision of biogas units for methane production.
3.
Construction of housing, administrative buildings, workshops, warehouses, 
extension stations, and livestock sheds.
4.
Provision of improved household cooking stoves, and of construction and farm 
machinery, as well as trucks and other vehicles required for land development, farm 
and produce transport, support services and management, and provision of motorcycles 
for town extension agents.
Part B:
Production Activities
 
1.
Establishment of orchards, mulberry, feed grains, fodder crops, and woodlots and 
rehabilitation of orchards, tea gardens and paddy land.
2.
Provision of stock, feed and fishmeal for livestock breeding, poultry and dairy 
farms and for fishponds.
3.
Rehabilitation and new construction of livestock processing and agro-processing 
and marketing facilities, including feed mills, fruit and vegetable processing and 
packing lines, cold storage, tea and silk processing and a wholesale market for 
products, and feed premix, and cold storage and packing facilities for fruit.
Part C:
Institutional Support
 
Supporting agricultural research in red soils development, training 
participating households and agro-technical staff in agricultural topics and project 
management through a program of local and overseas training, study tours, and 
provision of consultants' services, and conducting a pilot program of research and 
demonstration on areas of degraded red soils.
*          *          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
Schedule 3
Special Account
Page  9
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2),(3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the Project eligible Categories, and in the Project equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
Page  10
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account:
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of 
this Schedule; or
 
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, 
the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association:
 
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified.  Unless the Association 
shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
