Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
Credit Number 2563 CHA
(Second Red Soils Area Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FUJIAN PROVINCE
JIANGXI PROVINCE
HUNAN PROVINCE
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE AND
GUANGXI ZHUANG AUTONOMOUS REGION
Dated March 23, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2563 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 23, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and separately, FUJIAN PROVINCE, JIANGXI PROVINCE, HUNAN PROVINCE, 
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE AND GUANGXI ZHUANG AUTONOMOUS REGION (the respective Provinces).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
one hundred and eight million, four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
108,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that the Project Provinces agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Association's entering 
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Project Provinces declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, agricultural and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for their respective parts of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Project Provinces shall otherwise agree, the 
Project Provinces shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Project Provinces shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Each of the Project Provinces shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credit.
(b)
Each of the Project Provinces shall promptly inform the Association of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by such 
Project Province of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Project Provinces shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of its departments or agencies responsible for carrying out the Project or any 
part thereof.
(b)
The Project Provinces shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
Page  3
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Project Provinces thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance 
with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify the Project Provinces of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Fujian Province:
Foreign Economic Office
Agricultural Department of Fujian Province
Fuzhou, China
Cable address:
Fuzhou 8056
Page  4
For Jiangxi Province:
77 Mid of Hong Du St.
Nanchang 33002, China
Cable address:
Nanchang 3320
For Hunan Province:
13 Jiaoyu St.
Changsha,
China
Cable address:
Changsha 2999
For Zhejiang Province:
63 Huaijiachi
Hangzhou, China
Cable address:
Hangzhou 3333
For Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region:
135 Qixing Rd.
Nanning, 53022, China
Cable address:
Nanning 6593
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of each of the 
Project Provinces may be taken or executed by the Governor or Vice Governor or such 
other person or persons as the Governor or Vice Governor shall designate in writing, 
and each of the Project Provinces shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
Page  5
FUJIAN PROVINCE
JIANGXI PROVINCE
HUNAN PROVINCE
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
GUANGXI ZHUANG AUTONOMOUS REGION
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period,
the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two 
predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to 
all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component of the 
bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Project Provinces shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be 
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding 
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Project Provinces shall use bidding 
documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the 
Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items of pesticides and specialized agro-processing and 
research equipment and other items as agreed by the Bank costing up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $7,300,000 may be procured under contracts awarded through 
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of 
bids obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines 
and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines 
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.
Civil works shall be carried out by force account, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association except that civil works for the construction of roads 
and large buildings up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $11,100,000, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Page  6
3.
Items or groups of items of small agricultural and agro-processing machinery and 
equipment, pumps, and concrete and steel pipes up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$8,450,000, and cement up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $13,700,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.
Breeding animals, fattening pigs and seeds and seedlings, posting up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $18,500,000, and timber, sand and stone up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $21,100,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
5.
Items or groups of items for small quantities of equipment, instruments and 
miscellaneous goods, under contracts not exceeding $50,000 each, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $3,500,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of comparison of price quotations obtained form at least three suppliers eligible 
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, and for the first contract in each Project Province to be 
procured in accordance with competitive
bidding advertised locally, under paragraphs C.2 and C.3 hereof, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where 
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to 
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to 
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in 
respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Project Provinces in carrying out the Project, the 
Project Provinces shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms 
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the Project 
Provinces shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of 
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as 
shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Project Provinces shall use other standard 
forms agreed with the Association.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  7
Implementation Program
Part A:
Land Development and Infrastructure
 
1.
The Project Provinces shall grant or cause to be granted to each household unit 
which participates under Part A of the Project the exclusive right to use the land 
upon which Project activities are to be undertaken by such household for a term of not 
less than 50 years (in the case of uplands) and not less than 30 years (in the case of 
existing cropped lowlands).
2.
The Project Provinces shall:
 
(a)
cause the dams and reservoirs supplying the irrigation systems under the 
Project to be maintained and inspected periodically in accordance with sound 
engineering practice, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
ensure that the designs and construction of each dam constructed or 
improved under the Project exceeding 10 meters in height or 2,500,000 million cubic 
meters in storage volume is independently reviewed under arrangements satisfactory to 
the Association.
3.
Each of the Project Provinces shall implement a livestock maintenance program 
acceptable to the Association, under which farmers developing land under Part A of the 
Project shall be required to retain standard numbers of pigs or substitute livestock 
to produce adequate manure to be applied to the land during the first year of 
development, and shall be reimbursed for maintaining such livestock at unit rates 
reflecting manure production capacity, agreed with the Association.
Part B:
Environmental Management and Resettlement
 
1.
(a)
The Project Provinces shall ensure that all Project activities shall 
conform to environmental standards and guidelines, including the environmental 
regulations and guidelines issued by the National Environmental Protection Agency and 
its Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau, which shall be satisfactory to the 
Association.
(b)
To that end, the Project Provinces shall implement their respective 
portions of the Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan for the Project in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The Project Provinces shall:
 
(a)
ensure that the final designs for effluent treatment for each 
agro-processing plant under  the Project have been approved by the relevant provincial 
environmental protection bureau prior to beginning construction of such plant; and
(b)
ensure that each enterprise shall monitor and treat effluents from such 
plants adequately before disposal, under the supervision of such bureau.
3.
The Project Provinces shall ensure that:
 
(a)
all pesticides used under the Project shall have been approved by the 
Association; and
(b)
the storage, handling, distribution and use of such pesticides shall be 
consistent with guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
4.
(a)
The Project Provinces shall ensure that all persons who are involuntarily 
resettled, or whose rights to land are compulsorily acquired, under the Project 
receive adequate compensation for assets, logistic support for moving and relocation 
assistance.
(b)
To this end, the Project Provinces shall cause their respective PMOs:
 
(i)
to notify the Association through the central project management 
Page  8
office of any 
resettlement which will result from the 
Project;
(ii)
prior to undertaking any such resettlement, to submit to the 
Association for 
approval through the central project 
management office the resettlement plans 
relative to such 
resettlement; and
(iii)
to implement the approved resettlement plans.
 
Part C:
Financial Management
 
1.
The Provincial Financial Departments of the Project Provinces shall onlend a 
portion of the proceeds of the Credit to farmers and to enterprises under the Project 
through the local finance bureau in the form of loans bearing interest at rates for 
farmers of no more than 7 percent per annum and for enterprises at rates no less than 
the prevailing rate charged by the Agricultural Bank of China for similar loans for 
similar purposes and for similar maturities.
2.
The Project Provinces shall ensure that: (a) charges are collected from the 
water users for the irrigation systems completed under the Project at levels 
sufficient to cover full annual operation and maintenance costs by not later than the 
sixth year after their completion; (b) the rates of charges shall be revised 
periodically as necessary to gradually reach such level; and  (c) cause their 
respective PMOs to furnish to the Association through the central project management 
office by February 28 in each year, for review by the Association, a list of the 
proposed water charges for such irrigation schemes for the next year.
3.
The Project Provinces shall ensure that the imported fertilizers and pesticides 
provided under the Project shall be sold to farmers at prices which cover the costs of 
procurement, transportation and distribution.
4.
The Project Provinces shall each establish and maintain a revolving fund in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association for the procurement of 
fertilizer, pesticides and other agricultural inputs for annual crop production under 
the Project (including the production of fodder and green manure), financed from the 
proceeds of sale of fertilizer and pesticides under the Project.
Part D:
Project Management
 
1.
The Project Provinces shall maintain or cause to be maintained: 
(a)
a project leading group at each of the provincial, prefectural and county 
levels included in the Project to formulate Project-related policies, coordinate among 
relevant agencies and provide overall guidance on Project implementation, with 
composition and responsibilities acceptable to the Association; and
(b)
a project management office to organize, coordinate and implement Project 
activities at the provincial level, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to 
the Association, staffed by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
2.
The Project Provinces shall ensure that all training, including study tours, and 
research under the Project shall be carried out in accordance with training and 
research programs agreed with the
Association.  To that end, the Project Provinces shall cause their respective PMOs by 
December 1 in each year, to prepare and furnish to the Association through the central 
project management office for approval by the Association plans for the research, 
training and study tours to be carried out in the next year.
3.
The Project Provinces shall, by December 1 of each year, prepare and furnish to 
the Association through the central project management office for review by the 
Association, a work plan and annual budget for Project implementation for the 
following year.
4.
Without limitation to the reporting provisions of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, the Project Provinces shall:
Page  9
(a)
furnish to the Association by March 31 and September 30 of each year 
during implementation of the Project, a report on the progress made by the Project 
Provinces in carrying out the Project; and
(b)
by May 31, 1997, carry out a mid-term review with the Association and the 
Borrower of the progress of and prospects for Project implementation.
