Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2563 CHA
Inner Mongolia Project Agreement
(Second Red Soils Area Development Project-Snowstorm Emergency Recovery)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION
Dated September 24, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 2563 CHA
INNER MONGOLIA PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION (Inner Mongolia).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement dated March 23, 1994 between 
People’s Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
hundred and eight million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
108,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement to assist in financing of the Second Red Soils Development Project (the Red 
Soils Project);
(B)
by a letter dated April 17, 2001, the Borrower requested the Association 
to amend the Development Credit Agreement in order to permit the use of cost savings 
under the Red Soils Project to be utilized in the financing of the most urgent needs 
of areas of the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region of the Borrower (Inner Mongolia) 
severely affected by drought and snowstorms, and the Association has agreed to amend 
the Development Credit Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth in an amending 
letter of even date with this Agreement (the Amendment Agreement), but only on the 
condition that Inner Mongolia agrees to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Inner Mongolia, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Amendment Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, as amended, the Preamble to this Agreement and in 
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Inner Mongolia declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out Part D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, managerial, agricultural, 
engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Inner Mongolia shall otherwise agree, Inner Mongolia 
shall carry out Part D of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part D of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Inner Mongolia shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Part D of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Inner Mongolia shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and Inner Mongolia, a plan for the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with Inner Mongolia on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Inner Mongolia shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part D of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
Inner Mongolia shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part D of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Inner Mongolia 
of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Inner Mongolia shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and 
Page  3
expenditures in respect of Part D of the Project of the departments or agencies of 
Inner Mongolia responsible for carrying out said Part of the Project or any part 
thereof.  
(b)
Inner Mongolia  shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Amendment Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Inner Mongolia thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Inner Mongolia of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. Deliveries made by facsimile shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses 
so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
Page  4
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
(1-202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
or 64145 (MCI)
For Inner Mongolia
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region Finance Bureau
No. 1 Xin Hua Street, Huhhot 010055
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region
People’s Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86) 0471-69-45308
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Inner Mongolia 
may be taken or executed by its Governor or any Vice Governor or such other person or 
persons as said Governor or Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and Inner 
Mongolia shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION
By /s/ Ju Kuilin
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
Procedures for the Procurement of Goods and Works 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Page  5
Except as provided under paragraph 2 of this Part B, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,790,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Force Account and Community Participation
Works under Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $12,030,000 
equivalent, which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, may, with 
the Association's prior agreement, be carried out (a) by force account in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines if they meet the requirements 
of said paragraph, or (b) in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works (a) for the drilling of wells under Part D.2 of the Project, and (b) under 
Part D.3 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,330,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
(3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to  bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph 2, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply 
with respect to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more; and (ii) for each league or city among the Recovery Project Areas, 
the first contract for works procured in accordance with paragraph 4 of Part B above 
and the first contract for goods procured in accordance with paragraph 2 of said Part 
B.
(b)
With respect to each contract referred to in clause (ii) of sub-paragraph 
(a) of this paragraph 2, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures 
or the execution of any contract under the procurement procedures 
for small works, Inner Mongolia shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping or 
procurement of small works procedures, Inner Mongolia shall 
provide to the Association copy of the specifications and the 
Page  6
draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part C, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Procedure for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for the review of grassland management and for project impact 
monitoring and evaluation, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $60,000 equivalent, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to 
the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only 
after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part C, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Inner Mongolia shall establish and, thereafter throughout the period of 
implementation of Part D of the Project, maintain within the Recovery Project Areas:
(a)
project leading groups at the regional, league and city, and banner and 
Page  7
county levels, to provide over all guidance and ensure coordination among the relevant 
regional agencies in support of the implementation of Part D of the Project, the 
composition of said project leading groups in all cases to be acceptable to the 
Association; and
(b)
within the animal husbandry bureau at the regional, league and city, and 
banner and county levels, project management offices with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association, managed by qualified personnel assisted by competent 
staff in sufficient numbers, including staff seconded from other line agencies, and 
provided with adequate resources, to manage the implementation of Part D of the 
Project at the respective levels; said project management offices to include a 
financial management and disbursement unit, a procurement unit, and a project 
management unit.
2.
To strengthen the financial management capacity of the project management 
offices at all levels, Inner Mongolia shall:
(a)
prepare and adopt a financial management and accounting manual 
satisfactory to the Association, including delineation of roles and responsibilities 
for financial management, operating procedures, accounting practices and guidelines 
for financial data preparation and review; and
(b)
carry out training for financial management staff of the project 
management offices, in accordance with a training program satisfactory to the 
Association.
3.
For purposes of Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project, Inner Mongolia shall, out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, make loans under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association, to eligible beneficiaries selected in accordance with criteria 
satisfactory to the Association; said terms, conditions and eligibility criteria to 
include without limitation the following:
(a)
the principal amount of the loan shall not exceed Y 20,000;
(b)
to be eligible, the beneficiary household must: (i) have an annual income 
of not  more than Y 2,500 per capita; (ii) not be beneficiary of a loan under any 
other project financed by the Association or International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development; (iii) agree to participate in training programs given by the respective 
project management offices in respect of, inter alia, shed design, construction and 
maintenance and shed feeding practices, artificial pastures and grassland management, 
silo construction and maintenance, forage harvesting and processing, and water 
utilization.
(c)
To enhance the effectiveness of the investments made by beneficiaries 
with the loans received under Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project, Inner Mongolia shall 
assist those beneficiaries who do not yet have a thirty year lease on the grazing land 
they use, in obtaining such lease. 
4.
Inner Mongolia shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of Part D of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 
15 of each year, commencing September 15, 2001, quarterly reports integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 4, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
Part D of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part D of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
promptly review with the Association each of the reports referred to in 
Page  8
sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph 4, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of Part D of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of each said report 
and the Association’s views on the matter.
