Page  1
September 24, 2001
Ms. Zou Jiayi
Acting Director General
International Department
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe, Baijing
People’s Republic of China
Dear  Ms. Zou:
Re:
Second Red Soils Area Development Project (Cr.2563-CHA)
A Snowstorm Emergency Recovery Component
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
1.
I refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the People’s Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the Association), 
dated March 23, 1994, as amended by a letter agreement dated January 27, 1999 between 
the Borrower and the Association (together the Development Credit Agreement), pursuant 
to which the Association agreed to extend a credit to the Borrower (the Credit) to 
assist in the financing of the Second Red Soils Area Development Project (the 
Project).  I also refer to the letter dated April 17, 2001 from the Deputy 
Director-General, International Department, Ministry of Finance, on behalf of the 
Borrower, requesting amendments to the Development Credit Agreement in order to allow 
a portion of the proceeds of the Credit to be utilized to assist in financing the most 
urgent needs of areas of the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region of the Borrower (Inner 
Mongolia) severely affected by recent drought and snowstorms.
2.
I am pleased to inform you that the Association concurs with the Borrower’s  
proposal and hereby agrees to amend the Development Credit Agreement as hereinafter 
provided.
3.
Recital (B) is amended to read as follows:
"(B)
Parts A, B and C of the Project will be carried out by Fujian 
Province (Fujian), Jiangxi Province (Jiangxi), Hunan Province (Hunan), Zhejiang 
Province (Zhejiang) and Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region (Guangxi) (the Red 
Soils Project Provinces) and Part D of the Project will be carried out by Inner 
Mongolia Autonomous Region (Inner Mongolia) (the Red Soils Project Provinces and 
Inner Mongolia sometimes referred to collectively as "the Project Provinces"); 
and"
4.
Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"Section 1.01.
The "General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement."
5.
Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have 
the following meanings:
(a)
"Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan" means the 
environmental monitoring and management plan for Parts A, B and C of the 
Project, dated July 1993 and September 1993, agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association.
(b)
"Inner Mongolia Project Agreement" means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Association and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
and agreements supplemental to the Inner Mongolia Project Agreement.
(c)
"Inner Mongolia Special Account" means the account referred to in 
Page  2
Section 2.02 (b)(ii) of this Agreement.
(d)
"Project Provinces" means the Red Soils Project Provinces and 
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region.
(e) 
"Recovery Project Areas" means the following areas of Inner 
Mongolia Autonomous Region severely affected by drought and snowstorms: 
XiLinGuoLe League, HuLunBeiEr League, XingAn League, TongLiao City and ChiFeng 
City.
(f)
"Recovery Project Area PMOs" means the project management offices 
established by Inner Mongolia in the Recovery Project Areas under paragraph 1 
(b) of Schedule 2 to the Inner Mongolia Project Agreement.
(g)
 "Red Soils PMOs" means the project management offices established 
by the Red Soils Project Provinces under paragraph D.1(b) of Schedule 2 to the 
Red Soils Project Agreement.
(h)
"Red Soils Project Agreement" means the agreement between the 
Association and the Red Soils Project Provinces, of even date herewith, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Red Soils Project Agreement.
(i)
"Red Soils Project Provinces" means the Borrower’s provinces of 
Fujian, Jiangxi, Hunan, Zhejiang and Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region.
(j)
"Red Soils Special Account" means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b)(i) of this Agreement.
(k)
"Special Accounts" means, collectively, the Red Soils Special 
Account and the Inner Mongolia Special Account; and "Special Account" means 
either of the Special Accounts."
6.
Section 2.02(b) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as 
follows:
"(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars the following two special deposit accounts in a commercial 
bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment: (i) one for Parts A, B and C of the Project (the Red Soils Special 
Account); and (ii) one for Part D of the Project (the Inner Mongolia Special 
Account). Deposits into and payments out of the Red Soils Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
Deposits into and payments out of the Inner Mongolia Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement."
7.
Section 3.01(a) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as 
follows:
"(a)
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement, shall cause the Red Soils Project Provinces to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Red Soils Project Agreement all 
the obligations of the Red Soils Project Provinces therein set forth, shall 
cause Inner Mongolia to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Inner 
Mongolia Project Agreement all the obligations of Inner Mongolia therein set 
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable the Red Soils Project Provinces and Inner Mongolia to perform their 
respective obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance."
8.
Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (a) 
procurement of the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for Parts A, 
B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Red Soils Project 
Agreement; and (b) procurement of the goods, works, and consultants’ services 
required for Part D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Page  3
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Inner Mongolia 
Project Agreement."
9.
Section 3.04(a) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by substituting 
the term "Red Soils Project Provinces" for the term "Project Provinces" therein.
10.
Section 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any of the Project Provinces shall have failed to perform any of 
its obligations under the Red Soils Project Agreement or the Inner Mongolia 
Project Agreement, as the case may be.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that any of the Project Provinces will be able to 
perform its obligations under the Red Soils Project Agreement or the Inner 
Mongolia Project Agreement, as the case may be."
11.
Section 5.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by substituting the 
reference "Section 7.01(h)" for the reference "Section 7.01(d)" therein.
12.
Section 6.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by substituting the 
terms "Red Soils Project Provinces" and "Red Soils Project Agreement" for the terms 
"Project Provinces" and "Project Agreement", respectively, therein.
13.
The table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
Category
    Amount of the Credit
% of Expenditures 
   Allocated (Expressed in 
to be Financed
SDR Equivalent)
(1)
Goods (other than under
Part D of the Project):
(a) Timber, sand and stone 13, 514,000
60%
(b) All other goods (except
 64,040,000
100% of foreign
          consumables under
expenditures,
          Category (4) (b) below
            100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)   Works (other than under
Part D of the Project):
(a) Force Account
11,235,000
30%
(b) Livestock Maintenance
 2,348,000
30%
 
(c) All other works (except
      for research under
      Category (4)(b) below
 1,982,000
50% 
(3)   Operating Costs for project
management (other than under
Part D of the Project)
 1,107,000
30%   
(4)
(a) Training study and 
consultants services
 5,380,000
100%
(b)  Research
   742,000
50%
(5)
Part D of the Project
Page  4
(a) Works
 6,892,000
65%
(b) Goods
 1,059,900
100% of foreign 
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost),
and 75% of 
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(c) Consultants Services
  101,000
100%
and training
TOTAL
108,400,000
14.
Paragraphs 2 (a) and 2(b) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement are 
amended to read as follows:
"(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed "foreign expenditures"; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures;".
15.
Paragraphs 2(d) and 2(c) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement are 
amended by substituting the term "Red Soils Project Agreement" for the term "Project 
Agreement" therein.
16.
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read 
as follows:
"4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for:
(a) in respect of Parts A, B and C of the Project: (i) civil works by 
force account, (ii) goods and works under contracts not exceeding $200,000 
equivalent each; and (iii) training and study tours; and
(b) in respect of Part D of the Project: (i) civil works under contracts 
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent each; and (iii) consultants’ services provided by 
individuals under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each; in each case 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower."
17.
The first paragraph of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended 
to read as follows:
"The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower: (a) in 
alleviating poverty and increasing farmers’ incomes in the degraded red soil 
areas of the Red Soils Project Provinces, through: (i) introduction of 
cultivation of cash crops and livestock and agriculture production under 
household management; and (ii) improving the infrastructure and support services 
in these areas; and (b) in restoring social and economic infrastructure critical 
to the lives of nomadic herders devastated by an unusually severe snowstorm in 
hard hit areas of Inner Mongolia and in enhancing and strengthening the disaster 
response capacity of the local government and affected herders."
18.
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended by adding a new Part D 
after Part C thereof, as follows:
"Part D:
Snowstorm Emergency Recovery
1.
Restoration and rehabilitation of livestock sheds in the Recovery Project 
Page  5
Areas.
2.
Pasture rehabilitation through the development of rainfed or irrigated 
pasture; supply of forage processing equipment and storage facilities; and 
improvement of water supply through well drilling in the Recovery Project Areas.
3.
Rehabilitation of township schools and clinics in the Recovery Project 
Areas.
4.
Carrying out a program of institutional strengthening through the 
provision of technical assistance to: (a) improve grassland management; and (b) 
enhance evaluation and monitoring activities."
19.
The last line of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: "The Project is expected to be completed by November 30, 2002."
20.
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended by: (a) substituting 
the term "Red Soils Special Account" for the term "Special Account" therein; and (b) 
substituting "Parts A, B and C of the Project" for the term "Project" in paragraph 
1(b) thereof.
21.
The Development Credit Agreement is amended by the addition of a new Schedule 4 
at the end thereof, in the form attached to this letter as Attachment 1.
22.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures 
for Part D of the Project prior to the date of effectiveness of this letter of 
amendment except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 805,000 may 
be made in respect of Categories (5)(a), (5)(b) and (5)(c) on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after April l, 2001.
23.
The Association further agrees to establish May 31, 2003 as the later date for 
purposes of Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, but only in regard to 
Part D of the Project and in respect of Category 5 set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.
24.
Please confirm the agreement of the Borrower to the amendments set forth in 
paragraphs 3 through 23 above by countersigning and dating the corresponding form of 
confirmation set forth below, and returning one fully signed original of this 
amendment letter to us.  One fully signed original should be retained by the Borrower.
25.
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement remain in full force and effect.  Upon receipt by the Association of: 
(a) the copy of this letter of amendment duly countersigned by the authorized 
representative of the Borrower; (b) the Inner Mongolia Project Agreement, duly 
countersigned by the authorized representative of Inner Mongolia; and (c) evidence 
satisfactory to the Association that the Inner Mongolia Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by Inner Mongolia and is legally binding upon Inner 
Mongolia in accordance with its terms; the above amendments and the Inner Mongolia 
Project Agreement, shall become effective as of the date of countersignature of this 
letter of amendment or the date of countersignature of the Inner Mongolia Project 
Agreement, whichever is later.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Country Director, China
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Ju Kuilin___________
Authorized Representative
Date: September 24, 2001
Attachment 1
Page  6
SCHEDULE 4
Inner Mongolia Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (5)(a), (5)(b) and (5)(c) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part D of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,300,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
Page  7
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
