Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repeit No. 5754
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
MONROVIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CREDIT 859-LBR)
June 26, 1985
Western Africa Regional Office
Projects Department
Water Supply Division
Th doement has a restricted dbnri  *m d my be mud by reipients oly in the perfoemunce of
their officl dbei  Ia   toens n    . otber-Ise be disioud withou Weod Bank xthaiorion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official monetary unit is the Liberia Dollar with par value equal
to the US Dollar (US$). The US Dollar is legal tender in Liberia.
MEASURES AND BQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter (mm)                   =  0.04 inches (in.)
1 meter (m)                         =  39.4 inches (in.) = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                    =  0.625 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)            =  0.386 square miles (sq. mi)
1 cubic meter (m3)                  =  35.3 cubic feet (cu. ft)
1 liter (1)                         =  0.264 US gallon (gal)
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)  =  22.8 million US gallons
per day (mgd)
1 cubic meter per day (m3/day)      =  264 US gallons per day (gpd)
liters per capita per day (lcd)    =  0.264 US gallons per capita
per day (ged)
1 hectare (ha)                      =  2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB     African Development Bank
CDC      Commonwealth Development Corporation (United Kingdom)
GOF      Government of Finland
GOL      Government of Liberia
GTZ      Gesellschaft fUr Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Tecnnical Assistance Agency)
IDA      International Development Association
IMF      International Monetary Fund
KfW      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(German Reconstruction Bank)
LEC      Liberia Electricity Corporation
LWSC     Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation
OAU      Organization of African Unity
PPF      Project Preparation Facility of the World Bank
PUA      Public Utilities Authority
US       United States
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR - GOL and LWSC
January 1 - December 31, prior to FY81
January 1, 1980 - June 30, 1981, for FY81
July 1 - June 30, subsequent to FY81



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
MONROVIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CR. 859-LBR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .................................................................. i.
Basic Data Sheet .................... ................. ......f..................   ii
Highlights ................................................................. iv
I.    INTRODUCTION ................................................................ 1
II.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A.  Origin .................................................... . . . .     2
B. Project Objectives                       .......3 
C. Project Description                      .......  4
D. Project Financing   ........  5
E.  Covenants ............................................... ..... .       5
F. Condition of Effectiveness                   .......  5
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, OPERATION AND COST
A.  Introduction             ........................... ..    6
B. Construction .....................................................6
1. AfDB Financed Components                 .... .    6
2. IDA Financed Components                   . . .    7
C.  Operations ...................................................          8
1. AfDB Financed Components                  .         ..            8
2. IDA Financed Components ..................................        9
D.  Project Cost . .................................................   10
E.  Project Design and Supervision of Construction            .     .      11
F.  Contractor Performance ...         . ........................1, 11
G.  Management Improvement, Technical Assistance and Training    11
1. Management Improvement Program       .      .                    12
2. Technical Assistance. ..   12
3. Training                        ......13
H. Sector Study..                                                          13
I. Procurement....                                                         13
IV.   OPERATING PERFORMANCE
A. Water Produced and Sold                . . .14
B. Unaccounted-for Waterar..                                      ...  14
C.  Maintenance of Vehicles, Plant and Equipment .15
This document has a restriced distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No. 
APPENDIXES
A  Comments from the Executing Agency, LWSC .....  ....................    48
B  Comments from the Borrower, Ministry of Finance      . . .          49
C  Comments from the Co-financier, AFDB  ............................    50
D  Comments from the Co-financier, CDC ................... ...........    51
MAP
IBRD No. 18271



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.    FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A.  Introduction ............ ......................   ..................   15
B. Rate of Return ....................... .................. ........   16
C.  Tariffs ............ .....*............ .......          . .......   16
D.  Billing, Collection and Liquidity ......................    17
E. Operating Costs ....................................... .0 ................   18
F. Debt Coverage ................................... o ......................, 1B
G.  Internal Cash Generation .......................... .....   .................... .   18
H. Accounts and Audit .............................. .. ........   20
VI.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A.  Organization              . .        .      ......         ........  20
B.  Staffing ........... ................. *.................. **. . . .   20
C.  Training and Technical Assistance....................... ......   21
D.  Proposals for Improvement ........      ....... ............  21
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Background                  .     .      .     ...... ............    22
B.  Project Benefits    .       .................... ................   22
C. Average Incremental Costs .......                            . .    23
D.  Internal Rate of Return ................................. . . ..    24
E.  Affordability.o    .    .    ..             . .... ..  ........   24
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE                          ...... 24
IX.   CONCLUSION ..........................................................  26
ANNEXES
2-1   Summary of Covenants - Project Agreement ..--.... ....28
2-2   Summary of Covenants - Credit Agreement  .......... ..        ..............   31
3-1   Financing and Summary of Total Project Cost ......... ..       ............   32
3-2   Schedule of Disbursements ................   .      .........................   33
5-1   Income Statements and Performance Indicators (1978-83) .............   34
5-2   Balance Sheets (1978-83) .,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ........    35
5-3   Sources and Applications of Funds (1978-83) ....o ...................   36
6     Organizational Chart L.W.S.C . .....................................   37
7     Assumptions for the Cost/Benefit Analysis ......................... o   38



REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
MONROVIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CR. 859-LBR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This report represents the results of a performance review of the
Monrovia Water Supply Project for which Credit 859-LBR of US$8.0 million to
the Government of Liberia (GOL) was approved in December 1978. The Credit was
fully disbursed and closed in October 1983.
The report consists of Highlights and a Project Completion Report
(PCR) prepared by the West Africa Regional Office. A review of Bank files and
a PCR prepared by the Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation (LWSC) form the
basis of this report. The Region also took into account the findings of a
project completion mission carried out in November 1983. The draft report was
discussed with GOL and LWSC in May 1984, and this final report reflects their
comments and suggestions.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff.
Following standard procedures, OED sent copies of the draft report
to the Borrower, the Executing Agency and the Co-financiers for their comments.
Comments received from them have been reproduced as Appendices A, B, C and
D to the report.



- ii -
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
MONROVIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CR. 859-LBR)
L                                     PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal
Item                        Estimate                 Actual
(11/10/78)
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                14.8 a/              18.4
Cost Overruns (%)                                                  24.3 a/
Credit Amount (US$ million)                      8.0                  8.0
Disbursed                                      8.0                  8.0
Date Physical Components Completed              6/82                 1/83
Proportion Completed by Above Date (%)           100                 95
Economic Rate of Return (%)                      9.0                 negative
Financial Performance (Rate of Return)(%)        6.9                 negative-El
Institutional Performance d/                I (scale of 3) d/        3
Co-finance (US$ million):                                                  /
AfDB                                           2.9                 2.6 -/
CDC                                            2.0                 1.9 i
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item                         Planned                 Actual
First Mention in Files or Timetable                                  02/13/73
Government's Application                                             05/06/76
Negotiations Completed                                               06/08/78
Board Approval                                                       12/05/78
Credit Agreement Date                                                01/08/79
Effective Date                               4/09/79                 04/02/79
Closing Date                                 6/30/82                 06/30/83 if
Borrower                                     Republic of Liberia
Executing Agency                             Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation
Fiscal Year of Borrower                      Jan. 1 - Dec. 31, prior to FY81
Jan. 1, 1980 - June 30, 1981, for FY81
Jul. 1 - June 30 subsequent to FY81
Follow-on Project                            Technical Assistance/Rehabilitation Project
Amount (US$ million)                       5.0
Credit Agreement Date                      Not yet signed (Board approval March 19, 1985)
a/ After deletion of the estimated cost of the distrihution system extensions
which were deleted.
b/ A schedule of cumulative disbursements is presented in Annex 3-2.
c/ Negative rate of return since FY79.
d/ A rating of 1 indicates no significant problems; 3 indicates major problems.
e/ Variance from appraisal estimate is due to changes in exchange rates.
f/ The final disbursement was made and the account closed in October 1983.



- iii -
MISSION DATA
Month/   Jo. of   No. of    Man-   Date of
Item        Sent by*   Year     Weeks    Persons   Weeks   Report
Identification   VAPPB      03/76       1          1       1    04/12/76
Preparation      WAPEWT     01/77       1          2       2     03/16/77
Preappraisal     WAPEWT     05/77       1.5        2       3     07/05/77
WA1DB                 2           1       2     07/14/77
Appraisal        VAPEWT     10/77      3           3       9     10/30/77
EDC        01/78      1           1       1     03/06/78
Post-Appraisal   WAPEWT     10/78       0.5        1       0.5   12/04/78
WAPEWT     12/78      1           1       1     12/18/78
Supervision 1   WAPEWT      05/79       1.5        1       1.5  05/24/79
Supervision 2    WAPEW      09/79       1          1       1     10/17/79
Supervision 3    VAPEW      02/80       1.5        3       4.5   04/07/80
TWTW                  1           1       1    03/06/80
EDC                   0.5         1       0.5   03/18/80
URBOR                 0.5         1       0.5   10/15/80
Supervision 4    VAPWS      11/80       1.5        2       3     01/06/81
Supervision 5    WAPWS      05/81       1          1       1    05/29/81
Supervision o    VAPNS      08/81       1.5        2       3     09/25/81
Supervision 7    VAPWS      11/81       1          1       1    01/21/82
Supervision 8    VAPNS      02/82       1          2       2     03/03/82
Supervision 9    WAPWS      04/82       1          1       1    05/25/82
Supervision 10   WAPWS      09/82      2           2       4     10/15/82
Supervision 11  WAPWS       05/83       1          1       1    06/06/83
Completion 1    VAPWS       11/83       1.5        2       3     12/19/83
Completion 2     WAPWS      05/84      0.5         2       1     05/22/84
Total = 20 missions
= 48.5 man-weeks
* WAPEWT and WAPEW were precursors to WAPNS.



- ivs
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
MONROVIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CR. 859-LBR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       The project (except for the raw water pipeline) was designed as a
short-term program to ensure adequate water supply for Monrovia while LWSC was
strengthening its management capability and developing a rational long-term
development program. The IDA Credit of US$8.0 million was used to finance
expansion of the White Plains treatment plant, construction of a major
transmission main, construction of a booster pumping station, installation of
standpipes (public fountains), consulting services for a water sector study,
engineering design and supervision, technical assistance, execution of a
Management Improvement Program, and development of administrative and
technical training programs. Joint financing was provided by the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC). In addition, the African Development Bank
(AfDB) financed a raw water transmission main and the Organization of African
Unity (OAU) conference complex distribution system.
2.       Aside from one project component to expand the distribution system
which was-not implemented due to local funding constraints, all of the
physical objectives of the project have been met (para 7.02). The raw water
pipeline from the Mt. Coffee hydroelectric dam, completed in 1982, provides a
saline-free source of raw water (para 3.11); expansion of the White Plains
treatment plant, completed in 1983, has doubled LWSC's treatment plant
capacity; and installation of some 140 standpipes makes piped water available
to a substantial segment of Monrovia's urban poor who previously had limited
or no access to a safe water supply (para 7.04).
3.       The total cost of the project as implemented was US$18.4 million,
about 14% higher than the appraisal estimate of US$16.1 million .1/, due primarily
to underestimating the cost of the technical assistance and water treatment
plant expansion components of the project at appraisal (para 3.18). The cost
overrun was limited by excluding planned improvements and extensions to the
distribution system (estimated to cost US$1.3 million) (para 8.02).
4.       LWSC's rate of return on net fixed assets is currently negative.
Poor financial performance is attributed to tariffs which are too low (para
5.03) and management which has allowed some operating costs to skyrocket (para
5.06) while revenues have diminished. In addition, the country-wide shortage
of liquidity and general economic malaise have certainly had an adverse impact
on LWSC's financial performance. As a result, the major financial covenants
of the Credit and Project Agreements have not been met.
5.       LWSC has been plagued by an extremely high rate of turnover in
certain top management positions. During project execution, there were
several changes of both Managing Director and Controller. At the same time,
the Corporation has chronically suffered from maintaining an excessive number
of unskilled employees on its payroll (para 6.02).
1/ OED Note: The appraisal estimate without the deleted distribution system
extension totaled about US$14.8 million. On this basis, the cost overrun
was about 24%.



6.       The internal rate of return of the project is at this point difficult
to measure: questions as to the impact of LWSC's deteriorated management
performance (e.g., in terms of accuracy of financial statements) as they
affect the incremental cost/benefit analysis have not yet found an answer.
The physical components have been completed (except for extension to the
distribution system), and incremental water sales have taken place; but the
extent to which these incremental water sales (the accuracy of the recording
of which is dubious) reflect--as a proxy for beneficiaries' willingness to
pay--in the case of this project, the real economic benefits remains a
questiAE mark. tThe estimated high number of illegal connections is one
example - one surely cannot argue that, as people do not pay for water
consumption, therefore the economic benefits are equal to zero. The
unaccounted-for water proportion simply points to LWSC's poor performance.)
With all these questions in mind, the recalculation of the internal rate of
return has tentatively yielded approximately -1% as compared with the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) estimate of 9%, not surprising as the operating
efficiency has deteriorated and expected tariff levels never materialized
(para. 7.09).



REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
MONROVIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CR. 859-LBR)
PROJECT COMPLEION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     This report reviews the Monrovia Water Supply Project (CR. 859-LER),
for which an IDA Credit of US$8.0 million was approved on December 5, 1978 and
signed on January 8, 1979. The Borrower was the Government of Liberia (GOL)
with relending to the Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation (LWSC). Parallel
financing was provided by the African Development Bank (AfDB), and Joint
financing by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) - . The
objectives of the project were to eliminate the problem of saline water
intrusion into Monrovia's raw water supply; to increase the capacity of the
White Plains water treatment plant serving Monrovia; to improve the
distribution system; to improve water supply services to the urban poor of
Monrovia; to improve and strengthen the technical, financial and
administrative capabilities of LWSC; and to establish a plan for developing
urban and rural water supplies throughout Liberia. The project was completed
in January 1983 about six months later than originally planned, due primarily
to delays in mobilizing one contractor because of the uncertainty of obtaining
local counterpart funding (para 3.06).
1.02     Until 1973, national responsibility for the overall planning,
development and operation of public water supply and sewerage systems in
Liberia was assigned to a division of the Liberia Public Utilities Authority
(PUA), which also had responsibility for electricity, telecommunications and
broadcasting. LWSC, which was created in 1973 and became an autonomous public
enterprise in 1976, is empowered by law to establish and operate water supply
and sewerage facilities throughout Liberia. The Ministry of Public Health
also assumes a limited role in the sector, primarily in water quality
surveillance.
1.03     LWSC's policies are determined by a five-member Board of Directors
appointed by the Govern.ment. The Managing Director is LWSC's chief
executive. Until the late 1970's, LWSC operated only in Monrovia and two
other towns. Since that time, seven additional towns (so-called outstations)
have been equipped with piped systems financed by the Government of the
Federal Republic of Germany through Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Kf?).
Responsibility for the development and maintenance of rural water supplies
resides with the Ministry of Rural Development.
1/ In addition, the Government of Finland (GOP) provided a loan equivalent to
US$2.0 million to GOL, the proceeds of which were transferred as equity
funding for the project.



-2-
1.04     The first Monrovia water supply system was constructed in 1953 and
augmented in 1960. Except for the transmission main, these works were
abandoned and replaced by a treatment plant constructed at White Plains in
1969. The original waterworks were financed by GOL and transferred as equity
to the Water Division of the PUA. The White Plains treatment plant, which was
expanded under this project, was financed primarily by a loan in the amount of
US$7.0 million from United States Agency for International Development
(USAID). In 1973 the AfDB granted a US$2.2 million equivalent loan to LWSC
for improvements to the then existing system and for the design of further
expansions.
1.05     A proposed second IDA water supply project, which emphasizes
technical assistance, institutional development and rehabilitation, is
currently under appraisal. Its approval is contingent upon, among other
factors, LWSC's performance in the near term (para 6.05), the availability of
IDA resources and the interest of other agencies in participating in co-
financing.
1.06     LWSC is also responsible for the sewerage system in Monrovia, while
drainage and refuse collection are under the jurisdiction of local authorities.
Monrovia has the only public sewage disposal system in Liberia. Commissioned
in 1969, it was constructed at a total cost of US$8-5 million, of which
US$7.2 million was funded by USAID. The sewerage system was renovated in 1983
at a cost of US$3.5 million funded by a KfW loan to GOL.
1.07     Under the terms of the Project Agreement, LWSC was obligated to  -
prepare a completion report within six months of the closing date. LWSC's
completion report, received in December 1983, mission reports and
correspondence form the basis of this PCR. A review of the draft PCR was held
with the borrower in May 1984.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Origin
2.01     During the period from 1962 to 1974, Monrovia's population grew at an
average rate of 8%. By mid-1973, the existing water supply facilities in
Monrovia began to experience serious operational difficulties due to saline
water iitrusion at the raw water intake on the St. Paul River during the dry
season, insufficient transmission capacity, and deterioration of plant,
equipment and certain pipelines. Late in 1973 the AfDB agreed to lend LWSC
the equivalent of US$1.2 million (supplemented by an additional loan
equivalent to US$1.0 million in 1975) to finance the engineering design and
construction of certain emergency improvements to the Monrovia system as well
as the design only of extensions of the facilities to meet Monrovia's future
water requirements. The contract for designing both the emergency
improvements and the long-term expansion of the Monrovia water supply



-3-
facilities wa. awarded to a firm of consulting engineers. Since the AfDB was
Lunable to provide financing far the long-term extensions, financial assistance
was requested from the World Bank.
2.02     The consulting engineers' report, completed in 1975, proposed major
expansions to the Monrovia system which would have met anticipated demand
through 1985-2000. Because the proposals were not supported by adequate
preparatory work and certain improvements could not be postponed until another
study was completed, this project was prepared as a short-term measure (with
the exception of the raw water pipeline) to ensure an adequate water supply
for Monrovia through 1984.
2.03     The major emphasis in the short-term was to eliminate the problem of
saline water intrusion into the raw water supply, to increase the productive
capacity of the water treatment plant, and to improve water supplies to the
most needy of the urban poor.
2.04     Limiting the magnitude of investments at the time was further
supported by the analysis of LWSC's financial and managerial competence, which
clearly indicated a shortage of qualified and experienced personnel and the
need for i-nstitutional strengthening before a major expansion of the water
supply facilities could be undertaken.  Thus, a technical assistance and
training component was also included in the project.
2.05     While the engineering study (para 2.02) proposed the construction of
a permanent river barrage to prevent saline water intrusion into the raw water
supply, the Bank recommended that other possible alternatives be analyzed. A
three mile (4.8 km) long gravity pipeline from the Mt. Coffee hydroelectric
reservoir to the White Plains treatment plant was eventually determined to be
the least-cost solution to the problem.
2.06     The intake point for the raw water pipeline remained an issue even
after appraisal. Although directly tapping the penstocks at the hydroelectric
generating plant was identified as the least-cost solution, co-ordination with
the Liberia Electricity Corporation (LEC) was problematic. Although the -
conflicts with LEC were eventually resolved, they resulted in delays in the
completion of the raw water pipeline (para 3.02).
B. Project Objectives
2.07     The objectives of the project were as follows:
(i)  to fulfill the urgent need for a permanent solution (as
opposed to the annual construction of temporary barrages) for
the prevention of saline water intrusion into the raw water
supply;
(ii)  to provide additional treatment capacity at White Plains
since the previously existing facilities were constantly
operated well above the design capacity of 8 mgd
(30,000 m3/day) and, in fact, frequently reached their
hydraulic maximum capacity of 12 mgd (45,000 m3/day);



-4-
(iii) to improve the performance of the trunk distribution system
in critical areas such as the high elevation Namba Point and
the Nesurado river crossings;
(iv) to substantially improve the water supply services to the
urban poor of Monrovia who had limited or no access to piped
water (estimated at 70,000 people) either because of
financial constraints (high connection charges) or because
the service did not fully cover the densely populated slum
areas of the city;
(v) to improve and strengthen the technical, financial and
administrative capabilities of LWSC, not only to better equip
it to cater for the ever expanding needs of Monrovia, but
also to prepare it for meeting its obligations of providing
water supply and sanitation services in the rest of Liberia;
and
(vi) to prepare the ground through appropriate studies for (a) the
systematic long-term development of Monrovia's water supply,
and (b) the development of other urban and rural water
supplies for the whole of Liberia.
C. Project Description
2.08     The project as appraised in October 1977 was projected to cost about
USS16.1 million, with an off-shore component of US$11.3 million. The
principal components of the approved project were essentially as appraised:
(a) Physical
(i)  15,000 ft (4.6 km) raw water pipeline;
(ii)  8 mgd (30,000 m3/day) extension to White Plains
treatment plant;
(iii)  1.5 mg (5,700 m3) treated water storage facility;
(iv)  27,000 ft (18.2 km) trunk distribution main;
(v)  booster pumping station;
(vi)  Kenny Town primary and secondary distribution system
extension and rehabilitation;
(vii)  100 public standpipes;
(viii)  distribution system for the Organization of African
Unity (OAU) conference complex; and
(ix)  design and supervision of construction.



-5-
(b) Engineering, Technical Assistance and Training
(i) Management Improvement Program;
(ii)  technical assistance equivalent to 10-11 man-years;
(iii) design and implementation of training program;
(iv)  water supply sector study;
(v) water demand and distribution study; and
(vi)  study for water supply to Careysburg and Bentol City.
(c) Financial
(i) tariff study; and
(ii) block-mapping survey.
D. Project Financing
2.09     IDA and CDC co-financed all of the project components with the
exception of the raw water pipeline and the distribution system for the OAU
conference complex which were parallel financed by AfDB.  A loan from the
Government of Finland (GOF) also provided some of the funding for the
expansion of tne White Plains treatment plant (Finnish procurement).
E. Covenants
2.10     Because the appraisal identified glaring weaknesses in the technical,
financial and administrative capabilities of LWSC, the Project Agreement
included a number of covenants designed to ensure improvements in
institutional and financial performance.  In general, LWSC failed to comply
with many of the special covenants set forth in the Project Agreement. A
summary of these covenants and the extent of LWSC's compliance is presented in
Annex 2-1.
2.11     The Credit Agreement executed by GOL provided that the proceeds of
the Credit be onlent to LWSC under a subsidiary loan agreement. The Credit
Agreement also included covenants designed to ensure GOL's financial and
institutional support of LUSC. GOL also failed to comply with the majority of
these covenants. A summary of the Credit Agreement covenants and the extent
of GOL's compliance is presented in Annex 2-2.
F. Condition of Effectiveness
2.12     The Credit Agreement stipulated ds a condition of effectiveness that
GOL would pay equity contributions and operating subsidies for 1978 and 1979
amounting to US$2.0 million to LYSC. Upon being informed that this amount was
deposited by GOL into LWSC's bank account, the Bank declared the Credit
effective in April 1979. It was subsequently learned, however, that shortly
after Credit effectiveness, LWSC returned these funds to the Government on
instructions of the Ministry of Finance. The Bank was not notified of this



-6-
action by either LWSC or the Ministry of Finance.  This incident was later
(1981) the subject of a GOL special commission investigation. The
commission's report indicated that GOL recalled the funds because they were
not being used immediately by LWSC and concluded that GOL was not in a
position at the time of the investigation to replenish the funds. GOL
eventually transferred the US$2.0 million equivalent proceeds of a loan from
GOF to LWSC as equity.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, OPERATION AND COST
A. Introduction
3.01     With the exception of the contracts for the expansion of the water
treatment works and the treated water pumping station, the contracts were bid
and awarded without delay. Three major contractors, designated as Contractors
I, II, and III in this report, were involved in the construction of the
physical works. Design and supervision of construction were done mainly by
two foreign firms which, in this report, are designated as Consulting
Engineers I and II.
B. Construction
1. AfDB Financed Components
3.02     Raw Water Pipeline.  The contract was awarded to Contractor I on
July 24, 1980 for a sum of US$2,245,913.  With construction on schedule and
only about 800 ft (250 m) of pipeline remaining to be laid, LEC demanded to be
guaranteed compensation for the potential loss of energy that might result
from the use of the penstocks at the Mt. Coffee Dam as an inlet for raw water
for the Monrovia water supply system. Although analysis by consultants showed
that LWSC's withdrawals were less than 2% of reservoir inflow, an impasse
developed between LEC and LWSC and construction came to a halt. An
understanding was subsequently reached between LWSC and LEC allowing the
former to use the penstock for raw water intake. The dispute delayed
completion of this component by 10 months to May 1982, and resulted in
additional cost of US$1 1 ,748. In terms of construction costs, the delay was
insignificant. However, savings of up to US$40,000 per month in energy costs
which could have been realized by LWSC from the use of a completed gravity raw
water line were lost.
3.03     OAU Distribution Extension.  This is the only component of the
project that was constructed through a joint venture between a foreign and a
local firm. The contract was awarded to Contractor II in January 1979 and was
completed and final testing done in late May 1979. There were no problems
during tendering and construction. The completed cost of this undertaking was
US$301,000, less than half the SAR estimate of US$697,000.



7
2. IDA Financed Components
3.04     Water Treatment Plant Expansion.  The largest of the IDA financed
components was the expansion of the White Plains treatment plant. Bids were
opened on February 29, 1980. There were three tenders for general civil works
(Contract K) and only one tender each for supply of treatment plant equipment
(Contract L) and supply and installation of pumping plant and rehabilitation
of existing pumps (Contract 0). The civil works tenders ranged from a low of
US$2.7 million to a high of US$5.17 million. The lone bidder for Contracts L
and 0 also bid on Contract K at US$4.1 million, but with the conditionality
that if he did not succeed in winning Contract K, he would not accept either
of Contracts L and 0 if awarded to him. The consultant's tender evaluation
report recommended that Contracts K, L and 0 be awarded together to this
tenderer.
3.05     Following review of the bid evaluation report, it became apparent
that, provided reasonably responsive bids could be obtained for Contracts L
and 0, it would be in LWSC's interest to award Contract K to the lowest
bidder. The Bank suggested to LWSC that it consider requesting the two lowest
bidders on Contract K which included the only bidder for Contracts L and 0, to
extend their bid validity period for Contract K while simultaneously re-
opening Contracts L and 0 to Limited International Tendering by inviting only
contractors who had originally received bidding documents, and who were
therefore familiar with the project, to rebid on Contracts L and 0 within six
weeks.
3.06     At bid opening in August 1980, only two bids had been received, that
is, one bid at US$5.74 million in addition to the previous single bidder who
submitted the same bid (US$3.41 million) and with the same conditionality (not
accepting Contracts L and 0 without Contract K) as before. Considering the
very limited response to the invitation to rebid on Contracts L and 0 and
given the political and business climate in Liberia at that time (a coup
d'etat had taken place in April 1980), it appeared that further attempts to
obtain a more acceptable tender for Contract K would not be productive and
could, in fact, be counter-productive in that if the bid validity period
expired, additional charges on the contract might be incurred. Consequently,
the Bank did not object to Contracts K, L and 0 being awarded as a package in
October 1980 to the single bidder, Contractor I, who submitted bids on all
three contracts. The contract sum was US$7.84 million. Arrangements for
funds to finance the local counterpart requirement of the project delayed the
start of construction to March 1981 and resulted in cost escalation of
US$491,000. Construction was completed in January 1983, about 21 months
behind the April 1981 date of completion scheduled for this contract at
appraisal.
3.07     Namba Point Booster Pumping Station.  The need for the booster
station was identified by pressure surveys and distribution system analysis.
Its primary purpose was to improve performance of the trunk distribution
system in the high elevation Namba Point area. Design and construction
supervision was done by Consulting Engineer I. LWSC's construction supervisor
worked with this consultant on supervision. Four bids were received and



-8-
opened in January 1980. The contract was signed with Contractor I on July 24,
1980 for a sum of US$747,439. Construction was started in mid August 1980 and
completed by the target date of January 1982 for thii component. The cost
difference between the appraisal estimate and the completed project cost was
inconsequential (2%).
3.08     Freeway/Clay St. Main.  Six bids for supply and two for installation
were received. The contract was signed on July 24, 1980 with Contractor III
for the supply and installation of about 27,000 ft (8 km) of 16 in. (400 mm)
diameter cement-lined ductile iron pipe and 1,500 ft (0.5 km) of 8 in.
(200 mm) diameter and smaller pipes of the same material for a sum of
US$1,637,027. The design was done by Consulting Engineer II. Construction
started in December 1980 with supervision by LYSC and was substantially
completed by January 1982. LWSC contends that the contractors did not fully
complete the construction and were not available to remedy construction
defects during the 12-month maintenance period as stipulated by the terms of
the contract necessitating LWSC to undertake to repair the defects and
complete the job. As a result, LWSC is accusing the contractors of breach of
contract and has frozen the unpaid balance of over US$200,000 due to the
contractor for work performed. The Bank has suggested that both parties
attempt to resolve the impasse either by arbitration or by other legal avenues
available to them.
3.09     Urban Poor Water Supply.  Because the cost turned out to be
considerably less expensive than the appraisal estimate, 140 public standpipes
instead of 100 were actually installed together with associated distribution
pipeworks in the high density slum areas of the city to improve the water
supply services to the urban poor of Monrovia who had limited or no access to
piped water. Tendering was by competitive bidding through local advertising
in order to encourage participation by local construction firms. There was no
prequalification of bidders. Design and construction supervision was done by
Consulting Engineer I.
3.10     Three bids were received at bid opening.  The contract was awarded to
Contractor I on July 24, 1980 and construction was completed ahead of schedule
in January 1981 at a cost of US$752,000 compared with the appraisal estimate
of US$1.3 million.
C. Operations
1. AfDB Financed Components
3.11     Raw Water Line.  The gravity feed line is easy to operate, requires
little maintenance, and serves to reduce energy-related operating costs. It
is estimated that the full use of this gravity system could save LWSC up to
US$40,000 per month in energy costs. However, the full savings may not be
realized, as LEC from time to time and unilaterally closes the valves to this
line forcing LWSC to resort to the use of the low lift pumps to supply raw
water to the treatment plant. The Bank has been trying with limited success
to get the two institutions to come to a formal agreement on this matter in
order to prevent future water service interruptions by LEC.



- 9 -
3.12     OAU Distribution System.  The system was constructed to provide water
supply to the Hotel Africa and residences used for the 1979 OAU Conference in
Monrovia. The system continues to provide satisfactory service.
2. IDA Financed Components
3.13     -ater Treatment Plant Expansion.  This component was under the
maintenance period until January 1984 and has only recently been turned over
to LWSC.  It is, therefore, too early to comment on it although there were no
unusual problems during the 12-month period of maintenance. Given the
substantial investment involved, it is imperative that LWSC develop a
preventative maintenance program (para 4.03) to protect the investment in this
facility.
3.14     Mamba Point Booster Pumping Station.  Although distribution to
critical high elevation areas has improved substantially, the booster pumping
station is not operating entirely as expected. Lower than estimated system
pressures in downtown Monrovia caused the pressure reducing valves separating
the Mamba Point high elevation zone from the rest of Monrovia to open
frequently and water to flow from the high elevation area to downtown
Monrovia. This resulted in considerably more pumping (12 hours actual versus
5 hours projected per day) and higher energy costs. Operation of the station
during the day caused inadequate pressures in the business district of
Monrovia. Recently the pressure reducing valves have been closed in order to
better isolate the high elevation zone from the rest of the system, and
operation of the booster station is limited to night hours only to service the
high elevation zone. Future studies of the distribution system should
investigate how to improve operation of the booster station or alternatives to
it in order to provide a solution to the pressure deficiencies of the
distribution system.
3-15     Freeway/Clay St. Main.  Because LWSC has not yet completed certain
distribution extensions, the full benefits of the Freeway Main are not being
realized. The Clay St. Main has not significantly improved the quality of
service in its service areas due to operational problems.
3.16     Urban Poor Water Supply.  A major operatioual problem has been the
frequent breakdown of the standpipe faucets due to insufficiently durable
hardware and misuse by consumers. It is estimated that barely two years after
completion, less than 70% of the standpipes are still operational. Broken
faucets are not being replaced because LYSC management feels that the ready
availability of "free" water (standpipe usage is theoretically to be paid for
by GOL), encourages consumers to disregard bills because disconnection is no
longer as meaningful a payment enforcement measure as it had been previously;
consumers also turn to standpipes for water in order to lover their water
bills. Ponding around many of the standpipes due to improper drainage has
also been a problem and is exacerbated by the broken faucets. Because of the
problems encountered with the standpipes program, LWSC is at present exploring
the possibility of licensing private vendors to operate and maintain the
standpipe stations. If successful, such an arrangement would not only relieve
- SC of the cost and responsibility of maintaining these facilities, but could
also generate revenues through licensing fees and user charges.



- 10 -
D. Project Cost
3.17     The cost of the project as implemented is presented in Annex 3-1 and
summarized below.  Annex 3-2 compares actual disbursements with the appraisal
forecast. Extensions to the Monrovia distribution system which were included
in the project at appraisal were not implemented due to insufficient local
funding.
Summary of Project Cost
Cost
Appraisal
Component                                                Estimate      Actual
___- (Us$ 0oooT
White Plains Treatment Plant Expansion                      4720          8327
Raw Water Pipeline                                          1893          2246
Management Improvement Program, Technical Assistance
and Training, and Sector Studies                          1230          2632
Freeway/Clay St. Main                                        944          1673
Mamba Point Booster Station                                  779           762
Urban Poor - Standpipes                                     1300           752
OAU Transmission Main                                        697           301
.Miscellaneous Equipment (incl. meters, vehicles)            220           243
Design and Supervision                                       804          1455
Distribution System Expansion                               1279           -
Contingencies                                               2213           -
Total                                                    16079         18391
3.18     The above total cost for the implemented project was about US$2.3 million
(14%) above the appraisal estimate of US$16.1 million. Giving effect to the
component for extensions to the distribution system which was not constructed,
the overrun was US$3.6 million (24%). Cost overruns were incurred primarily
in the Technical Assistance and White Plains expansion components. The SAR
estimates for Technical Assistance had been based on the use of individual
consultants for its implementation. However, the search for such individuals
was not successful, so the idea was abandoned in favor of contracting for
these services from a consulting firm which was more expensive than the
planned alternative. Most of the difference in cost for the White Plains
expansion was in the civil works where the lowest bid was US$2.7 million
compared to an appraisal forecast of about US$1.5 million and a contract price
of US$4.1 million. As previously mentioned (paras 3.04 to 3.06), attempts to
effect a cost reduction in this component did not materialize. In addition,
delays in the award of the contract for the treatment plant while GOL was
arranging for funds to finance the local counterpart requirements (para 3.06)
resulted in claims against LWSC of about US$0.5 million, further aggravating
the cost overrun.



- 11 -
E. Project Design and Sapervision of Construction
3.19     LWSC was generally satisfied with the performance of both consulting
engineers. Consulting Engineer II had been responsible for the design of the
previously existing water suppl; and sewerage facilities in Monrovia. This
consultant does not maintain an office in Liberia and has no other overseas
operations. Perhaps because of this limited exposure to international work,
the first set of tender documents prepared by this consultant had to be redone
to fit International Competitive Bidding (ICB) guidelines. Also, in the case
of the raw water supply this consultant had to be specifically directed to
consider various alternatives to the erection of a permanent barrage on the
St. Paul River.
3.20     The consulting engineers also undertook supervision of construction
except for the laying of the Freeway/Clay St. Main which was supervised by
LWSC. LWSC wanted to undertake more supervision responsibility, but given the
shortage of trained staff with the requisite experience, an arrangement in
which LWSC staff worked with and understudied the consulting engineers'
resident engineers, was used for most of the supervision. The treatment plant
construction was supervised by the same resident engineer who had supervised
the construction of the existing works.
F. Contractor Performance
3.21     About 90% or more of the construction was carried out by
Contractor I, whose performance was highly regarded by LWSC. Despite some
delays in contract awards and woeful financial constraints, Contractor I
performed very well and made up a great deal of lost time. It is to this
contractor's credit and that of the consulting engineers that the physical
works are regarded as the most successful component of the project.
3.22     Although a certificate of substantial completion was issued,
according to LWSC the Freeway/Clay St. Main was never fully completed.
Contractor III's attitude both during construction and the maintenance period
(para 3.08) was considered unsatisfactory by LWSC. Contractor II performed
adequately.
G. Management Improvement, Technical Assistance and Training
3.23     Provision was made in the project for a Nanagement Improvement
Program, technical assistance and training totalling 10 to 11 man-years to
improve and strengthen the technical, financial and administrative
capabilities of LWSC. Consultants were hired for the positions of project
manager, operations manager, commercial manager, distribution engineer,
information systems manager, administrative trainer and technical trainer to:
(i)  review LWSC's organizational structure, operations and
accounting systems, make recommendations for improvement,
and assist in the implementation of these recommendations;
(ii)  prepare a staffing profile which identified training needs;
and



- 12 -
(iii) assist LWSC in designing and implementing a training program
to meet its long-term manpower needs.
1.  Management Improvement Program
3.24     Responding to their terms of reference, in early 1980 the consultants
produced for LWSC's review a number of reports with recommendations and an
implementation plan. LWSC was still reviewing the documents when the change
of government occurred in April 1980. Your changes of Managing Director since
1980 and severe financial constraints have resulted in minimal implementation
of the consultants' recommendations.
2. Technical Assistance
3.25     Expatriate technical assistance experts were recruited through a
consulting firm rather than individually as had been envisioned during project
preparation (para 3.18). This resulted in higher than estimated costs because
of the consulting firm's higher overhead and operating costs (appraisal
estimate about US$0.5 million compared with over US$1.9 million). Following
the recruitment of these experts, LWSC assigned suitable Liberian counterparts
to work with and understudy them. Unfortunately, only two of five
counterparts completed the program. One left the program when he was promoted
to Managing Director; two left the corporation and the country after the 1980
coup; and the fifth counterpart was unable to finish the program when the
information systems manager was taken ill and had to be repatriated.
3.26     The Managing Director in 1979/80 did not accept the need for
technical assistance and construed the technical assistance component as an
unnecessary imposition on LWSC by the Bank. This view pre-ailed throughout
LWSC, and reception of the team was initially cool and coo,)eration lacking.
With time the relationship improved. The higher than anticipated costs for
the experts caused the allocation for this component to be used up much sooner
than planned, and the project funding for contingencies was largely used to
make up the shortfall, leaving no reserve for other contingencies. In
addition, appreciating the need for a continuation of the program, the Federal
Republic of Germany through Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ)
contributed financing, about US$0.5 million equivalent, to sustain the program
for an additional six months.
3.27     Technical assistance in the areas of project management and water
supply operations was the most successful. Several changes in counterpart
project manager during implementation, however, limited the success
achieved. The best results of the Drogram appear to have been produced in the
operations department, where one counterpart who was motivated and was able to
take advantage of the opportunity to learn, participated for the entire
duration. Although the commercial manager made good progress on the block-
mapping program, this was never translated into increased revenues for LWSC.
On the whole, there was no noticeable improvement in LWSC's Commercial
Department operations throughout the life of the project. The failure to
convert improvements in the billing base into increased collections (para
4.02) can be attributed at least in part to the fact that the position of



- 13 -
information systems manager was never effectively filled (para 3.25). In
summary, although the technical assistance component of the project clearly
contributed to the success of the physical components, it accomplished only
minimal long-term improvements in LWSC's institutional framework.
3. Training
3.28     This was the least successful component of the project as most of the
objectives remain unfulfilled (para 6.03). Training of the administrative
staff actually started only in the second half of the administrative trainer's
one year assignment, as the first half was used to develop training materials
and to provide general assistance to the then Managing Director. When
administrative training finally started, it consisted of a series of general
seminars and courses which, the Bank felt, were of little relevance to LWSC's
training needs. The Bank had suggested that in the time left, the trainer's
time would have been better used in developing training modules which
responded to the training requirements identified for specific LWSC tasks or
jobs. Technical training was even less successful. The technical trainer
voluntarily terminated his contract after only about three months in Liberia
and was not replaced for the rest of the project because of time and financial
constraints.
H. Sector Study
3.29     A comprehensive water supply sector study was completed in c"3o.  The
study was conducted in two parts--Greater Monrovia and Liberia excluding
Monrovia--and provides a sound basis for sector development in the
intermediate term. The study recommended rehabilitation of the Monrovia
system in parallel with a phased program for development of outstations.
I. Procurement
3.30     All the major contracts were procured, as stipulated, by ICB.  While
responsiveness to the invitations to bid was good, the limited response to the
larger contracts caused some concern as to whether the documents had been
inadvertently restrictive or anomalous.
3.31     Each invitation to bid generated at least three tenderers except for
Contracts L (Supplyr of Water Treatment Plant Equipment) and 0 (Rehabilitation
and Expansion of the Treated Water Pumping Station) which evoked only one
tenderer. Inquiries into possible reasons for this low response indicated
that on Contract L, there were at least eight bids. Most bidders, however,
did not bid directly to LWSC but rather to general contractors who would, if
successful, eventually purchase the equipment from these bidders for
installation.
3.32     On Contract 0 the requirement for installation necessitated some
suppliers bidding to a general contractor as in Contract L. The major
detraction on this contract was the requirement to repair and rehabilitate the
existing pumping equipment. Some potential European bidders were reluctant to
bid for fear that unfamiliarity with the existing equipment coupled with the



- 14 -
possible difficulty of obtaining parts readily in Europe could make
rehabilitation unnecessarily expensive. They thought a longer lasting and
more satisfactory end product might be guaranteed by building a new pumping
station having the combined capacity of the existing plant and proposed
addition, rather than by rehabilitating the existing system and then expanding
it. The parceling of the contracts, in retrospect, did restrict bidding. The
Bank, however, was satisfied that rehabilitation of the then existing pumps
represented the least cost solution.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMUNCE
A. Water Produced and Sold
4.01     The following table indicates that production has increased on
average about 5% per year in comparison with the 6% forecast at appraisal.
Water billed, however, increased only 6% on average, versus 11% forecast, as
certain improvements in metering and billing anticipated in the SAR did not
materialize.
IWSC Water Production
1978-83
Water Pnodxed (mYW    Water Biled (mg)   % Unaommted-for Water
.ear3           AppnIse             Apppprssa             Apni1Sal
Estimate   Actual    EBtmte    Actal    Estinate    Actual
FY78                   4016      3900      2004       1900        90         51
FM9                    4.)       4207      2413      2145         43         49
FYB1 (18 mnths)        6703      6569      4020       3CC6        40         54
FEE                    4918      4453      2992       2226        39         50
PY83 (estimte)         5176      4900      3202       2431        33         50
a/ Fiscal years prior to FM1 coincide with the calendar year. After 19B1 fiscal year
is July 1 to June 30.
B. Unaccounted-for Water
4.02     The appraisal anticipated that unaccounted-for water would decrease
from 50% in 1978 to 38% in 1983. However, there has been no improvement in
this area and unaccounted-for water has remained consistently high at about
50% throughout the term of the project.  It is estimated that about one-third
of the unaccounted-for water is attributable to system losses and two-thirds
to illegal connections and billing errors. System losses result from leaks in



- 15 -
the system which are aggravated by inadequate maintenance and high operating
pressures. Although this project included a component for block mapping
(identifying all connections to the water supply and sewerage systems) which
was completed in 1980, the results of the block mapping survey were never
fully utilized to increase revenue generation and the maps were not updated
and maintained. Only recently, supported in part by PPF funds from the
proposed second water supply project and in part by technical assistance
financed by &TZ, has LWSC undertaken to update the results of the block
mapping program. A comparison of billing data with the maps has resulted in
identifying approximately 4,100 unregistered or illegal connections. This
equates to about 30% of LWSC's registered connections. In addition, errors in
meter readings, defective meters, and a shortage of meters to install for new
customers, in conjunction with a rather makeshift billing system, result in an
unacceptable margin of billing errors, which in turn, cast doubt on the
accuracy of the sales figures. In retrospect, the SAR forecast figures, based
on unreliable estimates at best, were optimistic.
C. Maintenance of Vehicles, Plant and Equipment
4.03     Maintenance is too often neglected for lack of spare parts and
operating funds. The result is that what may start as a need for minor repair
can escalate into a major (and expensive) operating problem. The lack of
adequate maintenance extends to LWSC's vehicles which, in turn, compounds
system maintenance and billing problems.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A. Introduction
5.01     The appraisal forecasts and actual income statements, balance sheets
and sources and applications of funds statements of LWSC for the period 1978-
83 are presented in Annexes 5-1, 5-2 and 5-3. Annex 5-1 also provides a
comparison of actual performance indicators with the SAR forecasts. The
comments in this chapter highlight some of the significant aspects of LWSC's
financial performance. However, before considering financial performance, the
following points should be noted:
(a) LWSC's accounting year changed after 1979, from the calendar
year to a fiscal year July 1 through June 30. Accordingly, FY81
covered 18 months and the actual period under review is January
1978 to June 1983. Calendar year appraisal forecasts subsequent
to 1979 have been prorated on a straight-line basis for
comparison to actual FY results;
(b) neither the assets nor the loan debt (about US$25 million)
related to secondary centers are included in LWSC's accounts,
since they still belong to GOL despite a covenant in the Credit
Agreement requiring that the assets be transferred debt-free to
LVSC;



- 16 -
(c) accounts are shown o'. a consolidated basis for both Sever and
Water Divisions. LWSC actually keeps separate accounts as
required by the Project Agreement, but the apportionment of
expenses is arbitrary and not meaningful; and
(d) although the Credit Agreement requires that GOL fund all
operating deficits related to the Sever Division, no such
payments have been made.
B. Rate of Return
5.02     Rate of return on net fixed assets is used as an overall indicator of
consolidated financial performance. While at appraisal it was anticipated
that the rate of return would improve from 2.3% in FY78 to 6.9% in FY83, the
actual rate of return deteriorated from 2.2% in FY78, turned negative in FY79
and became increasingly negative, to -6.6% in FY83. For appraisal purposes,
net fixed assets were assumed to be revalued by 51% in FY78 and 7.5% each year
thereafter. In fact, net fixed assets were revalued by 104% in PY78, by 13%
in FY79, and not at all thereafter. As a result, the actual net fixed assets
on which the rate of return for FY83 is calculated do not differ materially
from revalued net operating assets projected in the SAR. Therefore, a
comparison of the actual rate of return with the projectior- is valid. Even if
interest charges are not considered, operating expenses exceeded operating
revenues in FY79 and every fiscal year thereafter.
C. Tariffs
5.03     Although the Project Agreement covenanted that tariff increases would
be implemented as necessary to produce the targeted rates of return, LWSC's
most recent tariff increase of 12%, effective on July 1, 1978, was a condition
of Board presentation of the Credit. The appraisal noted LWSC's need for
relatively high tariffs and recognized the possibility of a reduction in real
terms in the event that significant operating efficiencies had been
realized. For purposes of the financial forecasts, however, the appraisal
assumed annual tariff increases at the estimated rate of inflation (10%) which
would have resulted in revenue to LWSC of US$3.05 per 1,000 gallons by FY83,
in contrast to the US$1.96 actually realized. If tariffs had been adjusted to
compensate for the actual levels of inflation during this period, average
revenue for FY83 would have been US$2.92 per 1,000 gallons. However, LWSC's
tariffs remained unchanged throughout the period of project execution as
follows
Water:
Unmetered: US$10.08/month flat rate (equivalent to 6,000 gallons)
Metered:   0 - 2,500 gallons/month:        US$4.20 (minimum charge)
2,501 - 20,000 gallons/month:   US$1.68 per 1,000 gallons
20,001 gallons/month and over:  US$2.24 per 1,000 gallons
1/ A tariff study is currently being undertaken in conjunction with Monrovia
Urban Development Project (CR. 1223).



- 17 -
Sewerage:
60r of the amount of the water bill for customers located within
100 ft of the sewerage system.
D. Billing, Collection and Liquidity
5.04     Another factor influencing LWSC's poor performance was the failure of
GOL to reimburse operating losses of the Sewer Division as required by the
Credit Agreement. LWSC maintains that accumulated unpaid operating deficits
amounted to over US$5.0 million at June 30, 1983!/ Nevertheless, the failure
of LWSC to increase tariffs and of the Government to pay sever subsidies were
not the only reasons for LWSC's disappointing financial results. LWSC's
billing and collection performance deteriorated while unaccounted-for water
remained at unacceptably high levels in relation to total production (para
4.02). Between 1979 and 1983, LWSC's accounts receivable increased
drastically: from US$2.2 million at the beginning of FY79 to an estimated
US$7.1 million (of which US$4.7 million2/ was oved by GOL) at the end of FY83,
that is, from the equivalent of 6 months' to the equivalent of 15 months'
gross billings. The 88% collection efficiency (83% private consumers, 100%
Government) projected at appraisal for FY83 contrasts dramatically with actual
performance. Indeed, LWSC collected less than 60% of gross revenues during
FY83; Government departments were particularly delinquent, paying only 44% of
amounts billed. The amounts billed, in turn, represented only about half the
water produced.  This inefficiency of collections caused LVSC's external
auditors to insist that the provision for unrecoverable debts be increased to
US$7.4 million, 76% of the arrears of private consumers, at end FY82. The
provision is likely to increase further (perhaps to as much as 80% of the
arrears of private consumers) when the FY83 audit is performed. L'SC"s
current ratio deteriorated from 2.7 at December 31, 1978 to 0.9 at June 30,
1983; i.e., at the end of FY83, LWSC's current liabilities (US$7.9 million)
exceeded its current assets (USS7.2 million) by US$0.7 million.
5.05     LWSC has recently, with the help of an advisor financed by GTZ,
improved its billing performance. Since May 1983, all billings have been
current and a regular monthlv cycle for meter reading and processing of bills
has been established and is being adhered to.
I/ There is disagreement between the Government and LWSC on the amount and
type of support provided to LWSC. The Government claims to have granted
operating subsidies totaling US$10.125 million during the period 1978-
1983 (see Appendix B), while LWSC's audited financial statements reflect
US$8.4 million of equity contributions. The difference in amount may be
caused by timing differences between budgetary allocations and payments,
application by LWSC of all or parts of certain payments as reimbursement
of operating losses on the outstations or payment of Government water and
sewerage bills, and/or the fact that the full budgetary allocation may
not have been made available to LWSC.
2/ Including some US$300,000 oved by some public corporations.



- 18 -
E. Operating Costs
5.06     LWSC's operating ratio (operating expenses as a percentage of
revenues) deteriorated from 88% in FY78 to 173% in FY83, as compared to 71%
forecast at appraisal. Inflation was not a haajor factor; the appraisal
estimated cumulative inflation of 69% from the beginning of FY78 to the end of
FY83; actual was slightly less than 63%. While there were some marginal
increases in operating costs due to increased water production, the most
significant increases were in bad debt expense (up 212% to US$1.6 million),
personnel (up 119% to US$2.4 million) and electrio.ity (up 122% to
US$1.3 million). Interest charges also rose by 211%, from US$0.4 million in
FY78 to US$1.1 million in FY83, much in line with the appraisal forecast.
F. Debt Coverage
5.07     GOL does not require LWSC to reimburse debt service paid on behalf of
the Corporation and makes equity contributions, in some cases, from the
proceeds of loan agreements with international lending agencies (e.g., CDC),
in addition to contributions from its own funds. Debt service, therefore, has
not had a major impact on LWSC's finances, apart from the deficit incurred
after allowing for interest due each year. LVSC was not supposed to incur
additional debt unless, as required by the Project Agreement, it satisfied a
revenue coverage of 1.2 times its debt service. Some additional debt was
raised by Government, but brought into LWSC's accounts as equity; however,
LWSC's debt service coverage still fell short of the required margin, even-on
its existing debt, due to its poor financial performance. The on-lending
agreement for the proceeds of the IDA Credit was not executed until 1982 and
does not reflect the terms agreed at negotiations. Instead it provides for
US$2.0 million to be passed on as equity and the remainder, US$6.0 million, to
be on-lent on IDA terms. In practice, the agreement appears to be ignored by
both GOL and LWSC; the IDA Credit appears in full in LWSC's books with
interest charges calculated at the on-lending rate prescribed by IDA.
G. Internal Cash Generation
5.08     The summarized financing plan for the oeriod 1978-83 is as follows:



- 19 -
ma2.B  of inauxing mma
Apprail BEthnt                  Acteal
Jan. 1, 198-D 3,19    Jan. 1, 1978 - June 30, 1
( U  ax>)       %          (u;ax>OO)%
Sciuc of Funds
Intei Cash Geieert.li                  16910        64              2            5
IBM Debt Service                        M66         31              418BA       26
Net Interml Cash Gezeuation          86 34                      (768)   E i)
oI=-term Borroi
- DA                                    8000        38000                       50
- AfB                                   2R62        10              2647        16
- CDC                                   20__         8              192b/       12
- 01tbr Borroimig                       1645         6              l9G bi      12
Total Borrodnp                      1437         54             14547       90
Goveruut Contribitim                      3394        13             3460        21
libtal Souces                                   100            16239       100
Appicati ol8f Fmds
- Project                              15403        59             18391       113
- Other Canstructicm                    6645        25              369          2
Tbtal                               22)48       84             18760       115
Iarease (Decrease) in Woiing Capital      4297        16             (2521)     (15)
TtEal Appica1izs                     W45        100            16239       100
a/ Inabxles interest m TSJ and AB lo1s paid ty GM on U1A' s behalf aeli
snuterest accmed (at 7.5%) but not paid cn the IA Credit (pa 5.7r).
These ammits are treated S euity ontrLitLs fxu2z GL.
b/ GOL borrowing tnnsferred as equity.
c/ leder: Governmnet of Finland.
At the time of appraisal, it was anticipated that LWSC would provide 33% of
its total capital investment requirements out of internally generated funds.
In fact, LWSC contributed nothing from its own revenues; however, the
Government increased its share from 13% to 21%. The borrowing requirements
were largely as planned in nominal terms (i.e., US$14 million) but not in
percentage terms - 9Q% actual in comparison to the SAR forecast of 54%. IDA's
share rose from 30% to 50%, mainly due to a reduced financing plan (the
project as appraised included US$1.3 million for improvement and extension of
existing systems some of which was deferred and the SAR projected an increase
in working capital of US$4.3 million, versus an actual decrease of
US$2.5 million). Because of cost overruns, the IDA Credit financed only 43%
of total project cost versus the appraisal forecast of 50%.



- 20 -
H. Accounts and Audit
5.09     LWSC's annually audited accounts were covenanted to be submitted to
the Bank vithin four months after the end of each fiscal year. Although the
deadline admittedly was unrealistically short, LWSC's audited accounts were
not prepared in a timely manner. The most recent final audited accounts
for FY81 and FY82 were received in August 1983 (26 and 14 months after the
end of the respective fiscal years). Although auditors acceptable to the
Bank have been appointed for FY83 and FY84, the draft FY83 accounts were
received only in May 1985 and FY84 accounts are still pending, LWSC'S
auditors have commented extensively over the years on the weaknesses in LWSC's
record keeping and internal controls. The weaknesses cited are due mainly to
inadequate supervision--discrepancies between cash collection and accounts
receivable relieved, subsidiary records (e.g., accounts receivable,
inventories and assets) which do not agree with the control accounts, and
unrecorded transactions which require concerted management effort to be
cleared up and to prevent recurrence. Failing such a sustained effort to
clear up and properly maintain the accounts, these discrepancies will persist
year after year.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. Organization
6.01     The management of LWSC was decentralized somewhat during the period
of project implementation by the creation of four Deputy Managing Director
positions--for Technical Services, Outstations, Administration and Finance.
(A current organizational chart is presented in Annex 6). Although an
organizational study was performed as part of the Management Improvement
Program component of the project, LWSC has not fully addressed the
consultants' recommendations. In fact, the consultants' final report was
never officially accepted by LWSC. One of several changes that was
implemented--establishing a direct reporting relationship from the Commercial
Manager to the Managing Director--was considered necessary to underscore the
importance of commercial operations to LWSC's overall performance.
Unfortunately, this change has been reversed, and the Commercial Manager now
reports to the Deputy Managing Director - Finance (Controller). Besides the
need for a careful review of LWSC's internal structure, the SAR identified the
need for LWSC to clarify its institutional responsibilities and authority.
However, covenants requiring that LWSC adopt by-laws and that LWSC's Board of
Directors be constituted in accordance with the Public Authorities Law have
not been met.
B. Staffing
6.02     Para 5.06 cited the substantial increase in personnel costs
experienced by LWSC. The number of staff employed by LWSC increased from 360



- 21 -
at the time of appraisal, to 597 by the end of FY83, and to 640 by February
1984. Certainly some of the increase can be attributed to circumstances
beyond LWSC's control (e.g., referral of candidates for employment by high
level politicians). On the other hand, LWSC has been repeatedly advised, both
by organizational consultants and Bank project officers, that its excessive
staffing (esiimated at 200 redundant employees) is one of the major factors
contributing to its inefficient operations and poor financial performance.
Despite these admonitions, LWSC has continued to budget for increased levels
of staff, supporting such requests by projecting unrealistically high rates of
collections.
C. Training and Technical Assistance
6.03     The training program envisioned in the SAR comprised both
administrative and technical training and the establishment of a small
training unit. An Administrative Trainer spent one year at LWSC, identifying
training needs and conducting non-technical seminars for sub-professional
staff. The achievements of the administrative training component were
limited, in part because the Administrative Trainer's time was often diverted
to other tasks by the Managing Director incumbent at that time. Although even
more critically needed, the technical training component did not effectively
get started. The Technical Trainer initially selected for the project
voluntarily resigned after only three months. Because of delays in locating a
replacement and local funding constraints when a suitable candidate was
finally identified, the position remained vacant. As a result, the need to
establish an effective job-related training capability continues to be a major
institutional problem for LWSC.
6.04     The project provided for 10-11 man-years of technical assistance to
augment the managerial capability within LDSC (para 3.23). Because it served
to strengthen middle management staffing at LWSC during project
implementation, the most significant benefits derived from the technical
assistance component of the project were facilitating timely and high quality
performance on construction of the physical components of the project and the
on-the-job training provided to the counterpart Project and Operations
Managers, who now hold the positions of Managing Director and Deputy Managing
Director - Technical Services, respectively. In 1982, GTZ reinstituted a
technical assistance program by financing three advisors (Advisor to the
Managing Director, Commercial Advisor and Advisor for Outstations) for a two-
year period.
D. Proposals for Improvement
6.05     Many of the institutional problems identified at appraisal still
remain with LWSC; some (e.g., overstaffing) have even been exacerbated over
time. The institutional weaknesses of LWSC cannot be denied and must be dealt
with before LYSC undertakes any further physical expansion. LWSC has been
informed that reducing overstaffing and identifying and reducing waste in
other areas of operations (e.g., unaccounted-for water, poor collection ratio)
are conditions which must be met if processing of the proposed second Monrovia
water supply project is to continue. The proposed second project will contain



- 22 -
significant components for job-related training and technical assistance
through a twinning arrangement with emphasis on upgrading operations through
preventative maintenance and improving financial management in order to lead
LWSC to financial viability. It is also anticipated that GTZ would expand its
program of technical assistance in conjunction with the proposed second
project.
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Background
7.01     The project under review (with the exception of the raw water
pipeline) was prepared as a short-term program that would ensure adequate
water supply for Nanrovia up to 1984. At the same time, it was intended to
prepare the ground for a follow-up project as part of a rational long-term
development program.
B. Project Benefits
7.02     The project objectives (para 2.08) have been met to varying
degrees. The physical components of the project were successfully executed;
therefore, the related objectives were generally met. Monrovia is assured of
an adequate supply of saline-free raw water; LWSC has adequate treatment plant
capacity to meet current demand; and distribution has been improved in the
high elevation Mamba Point area of Monrovia. Although installation of some
140 public standpipes has considerably improved the water supply available to
the urban poor, this objective has been met to a lesser degree (para 3.16)
than the others cited above.
7.03     As previously noted (para 3.24 to 3.28) the Management Improvement,
technical assistance and training components of the project met with limited
success. The sector studies performed have, in fact, provided a plan for
expanding urban water supplies and are being used by other government
institutions involved in the water sector. Unfortunately, however, although
the technical assistance component facilitated the execution of the physical
components, it effected only minimal long-term improvements in LWSC's
institutional framework.
7.04     In summary, the project has met its objectives in terms of physical
components, though a slight delay was incurred in meeting them. Production
has been lower and unaccounted-for water higher than forecast. Therefore,
quantifiable benefits are less than anticipated, because incremental measured
consumption of water has not been as great as anticipated. With regard to
institutional improvements, which if successfully implemented would have
resulted in an improved financial situation and increased operating efficiency
of LWSC, the project fell short of expectations. However, water supply has
been extended to a higher proportion of Monrovia's population. In fact, it is



- 23 -
estimated that the project has succeeded in providing a safe water supply to
80,000 additional residents (in excess of the 65,000 projected at appraisal),
most of them urban poor. Therefore, it is likely that fairly substantial non-
quantifiable benefits have materialized in terms of improved convenience
(standard of living), possibly improved public health and, therefore,
productivity.
C. Average Incremental Costs
7.05     The total project cost exceeded the appraisal estimate by 14%, even
though certain improvements and minor extensions of the distribution network
were deleted (estimated at appraisal to cost US$1.3 million).
7.06     Operating costs have been higher than forecast.  The appraisal report
anticipated incremental cost per 1,000 gallons produced to be US$1.59, whereas
in fact, actual costs (capital and operating) were US$1.90 in 1978 prices.
The incremental costs are derived by using a 10% discount rate as the
opportunity cost of capital and are shown below:
Average Incremental Cost at 10% Discount Rate
(US$/1,000 gallons)
Cost Component                                SAR        PCR
1.  Capital (raw water supply, treatment, transmission        1.20        1.36
distribution)
2.  Operations and Maintenance (unit cost)                    0.39        0.54
3. Average Incremental Cost per m3 produced                    1.59       1.90
4. Accounted-for Consumption as % of Production                  75         50
6.  A.I.C. of Water Consumed                                  2.12        2.91
7.  Average tariff in 1978 prices                              1.98       1.29
7.07     The marginal cost of incremental water supply as approximated by the
Average,Incremental Cost is estimated at US$2.91/1,000 gallons or some 40%
higher than originally anticipated.
7.08     The existing transmission mains and distribution system have a
capacity of 16 mgd (61,000 m3/day). The capacity is based on the present
system of operation where pumps at the water treatment plant serve the
standard water service area; and the Namba Point area, or high elevated area,
is served by a booster pumping system. The economic analysis of the project
considers the maximum capacity of the distribution/transmission main system
will be reached by early 1987 and incorporates the improvements in the system,
including LWSC's efficiency and finances, as a result of continuing activities
even after the project period (1984-88).



- 24 -
D.  Internal Rate of Return
7.09     The internal rate of return (IRR) is estimated at -1% compared with
9% at appraisal. However, this figure has to be considered as indicative
only, as it is based on best estimates in the absence of a reliable data
base. It should be noted that depending on different assumptions, which could
be as valid as the base case, the range of the IRR could be anywhere between
-14% and 8%. Annex 7 contains the detailed calculations and the
assumptions. The lover base case IRR estimates are explained by higher cost
levels, as discussed above (para 7.06) and a lower average tariff level per
1,000 gals, US$1.29 as compared with US$1.98 at appraisal at 1978 prices. A
tariff study being carried out under the present Monrovia Urban Development
Project (CR. 1223-LBR) (para 5.03) would review the long-run marginal cost
structure on the basis of more refined data and would recommend the
appropriate tariff levels for the social block and high volume consumption.
E. Affordability
7.10     Consumption of lover income households in the Greater Monrovia area
is believed to be in the range of 8-10 ged (30-38 lcd) (Water Demand Analysis
Study of March 1980).  In general, these households are served by standpipes
supply, free of charge. For a family of six persons with a metered house
connection, the monthly minimum charge would be US$4.20, allowing for
consumption of up to 14 god (53 lcd). Assuming, although quite unlikely--that
that family would be at or just above the poverty "threshold" 2  this monthly
water bill would represent about 5-6% of monthly income. While certainly on
the high side in terms of affordability, this is probably much less than that
household would have to spend were it to rely on private vendors (as commonly
seen in African cities).
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE
8.01     From project genesis in 1973 through appraisal in 1977, the Bank
maintained a firm position on scaling down the size of the project to meet
Monrovia's immediate needs while the institutional structure was being
enhanced to become capable of managing a more extensive long-term expansion
program. The Bank also remained firm in insisting that all feasible
alternatives be evaluated in order to identify the best possible approach to
meet the project's objective (para 2.05). The project finally undertaken was
of manageable scope for LWSC and the construction of the gravity pipeline from
the Mt. Coffee Reservoir to the White Plains treatment plant has provided an
1/ Estimated at about US$140/capita/year. In 1977 it was estimated that
about 23% of Monrovia's population was below the poverty threshold.



- 25 -
excellent long-term, cost effective solution to the problem of saline water
intrusion into the raw water supply, the most immediate problem addressed by
the project.
8.02     Cost overruns on some project components were substantial (para
3.18), the most significant occurring on the White Plains treatment plant
expansion where the appraisal estimates were evidently too optimistic. Had
tenders been requested prior to Board presentation, the appraisal report could
have been amended to reflect more realistic costs. Also, because of cost
overruns and the fact that sufficient local funds were not available to
compensate for the overruns, the project component for extensions to the
distribution system was not undertaken. Had the need to curtail the scope of
the project been identified earlier, the appropriate area for reduction could
have been more rationally considered. As it happened, the component
eliminated was one which would likely have generated increased revenues to
LWSC.
8.03     On average, there were two supervision missions per year by the Bank;
more frequent supervision missions were undertaken during the heaviest period
of construction. Most missions consisted of one or two staff. Although
supervision spanned only a four-year period, numerous changes in Bank staff
(three different engineers and three different financial analysts) occurred.
Greater continuity during supervision might have resulted in earlier
identification and better handling of problems during project implementation.
AfDB was not able to join any of the Bank's missions but undertook their own
supervision missions. CDC maintains an office in Monrovia and thus was
actively involved throughout project execution. One can speculate with the
benefit of hindsight that more intensive supervision early in project
implementation might have resulted in identifying and correcting some of the
problems in the Management Improvement Program, but no conclusion on this
point would be objectively supportable.
8.04     The project was first classified as having major problems (by a "3"
rating) in the supervision report of May 29, 1981, and it continued to be so
classified until credit closing in 1983. Financial and managerial problems
were consistently cited. Suspension of disbursements was once considered but
rejected; the relatively small undisbursed balance would have provided little
leverage. Moreover, suspension would have penalized contractors who were
performing well and jeopardized completion of the construction components of
the project.
8.05     Numerous special covenants were included in both the Project and
Credit Agreements. In view of the financial problems of the country in
general, and of LWSC in particular and of the latter's managerial
shortcomings, it appears that the number of covenants and the content of some
of them were overly ambitious from the beginning. Most of the special
covenants and even many of the standard covenants covering project reporting,
financial reporting and submission of audited accounts were not complied
with. In general, the plethora of covenants was counterproductive in that
because of the number of covenants, LWSC seemed not to appreciate the
significance of non-compliance. In retrospect, fewer and more carefully



- 26 -
considered covenants, limited to the most key operating and financial issues
would have facilitated project supervision.
8.06     It should be noted that financial risks resulting from weaknesses in
billing and collection procedures and the uncertainty of government payments
and uncertainty with respect to achieving the objectives of the Management
Improvement Program were cited as project risks in the SAR. Financial and
institutional peformance might have been better if implementation of the
physical components had been conditioned on LWSC's achieving at least certain
minimal results in these areas.
IX. CONCLUSION
9.01     The physical components of the project have been very successfully
completed. As a result, Monrovia is assured of a saline-free supply of raw
water; LWSC is able to adequately meet the demands of its consumers at the
present time; piped water is available to a substantial segment of Monrovia's
urban poor who previously had limited or no access to a safe water supply; and
LWSC's well-designed and constructed physical system provides a strong base
for a long-term development program. Because of funding constraints, the
project component for renovation and expansion of the distribution system was
not implemented.
9.02     The management improvement/technical assistance component of the
project was useful in that it enhanced LWSC's ability to manage operations and
construction during critical periods of project implementation, but
unfortunately it did not produce the significant long-term institutional
improvements envisioned at appraisal. Political and economic factors outside
of LWSC's and the Bank's control certainly were responsible, at least in part,
for the failure of this component to fully meet its stated objectives. Even
more significant, LWSC's lack of support and enthusiasm for this component was
not overcome in the course of project supervision and ultimately became a
self-fulfilling prophecy.
9.03     As a result, LWSC'e institutional fiber continues to decay and
weaknesses are more pronounced now than ever before. Low employee morale and
lack of motivation prevail throughout the corporation. Coupled with lack of
proper supervision, this leads to an underutilized work force while normal
operating requirements such as preventative maintenance are ignored.
Inadequate financial management and control lead to even more serious
deficiencies. LWSC is technically bankrupt and remains afloat financially
only by selectively paying outstanding obligations. The lack of financial
resources results in failure to adequately maintain plant and equipment, thus
threatening LWSC's ability to continue providing an adequate water supply to
Monrovia.



- 27 -
9.04     At the moment, LWSC's physical system is relatively new and quite
good. However, inadequate management, institutional weakness and poor
financial control will soon take their toll.  There is immediate need for a
program of technical assistance and institution building to prevent
irreversible decay of the physical system and to develop an institution which
can meet the water supply needs of Monrovia's very rapidly growing population
in the future. A follow-up Liberia water supply project is essential.
However, based an experience with the first project, institution building and
system rehabilitation must be the predominant components of any such project.
9.05     The experience gained points to an approach which would obviate many
of the problems encountered in the first project. Tenders would be requested
for major components so that project scope can be determined on the basis of
realistic estimates; covenants would be limited to coverage of key operating
and financial issues; and implementation of physical components would be
conditioned upon the achievement of certain basic improvements in operations
and financial management. With the groundwork laid by the first project and
the lessons learned, a second project aimed at leading LWSC to self-
sufficiency and financial viability could be successfully implemented.



- 28 -
ARME 2-1
Pa4ge I
C OF LT-TR
MNO    WAi,:WFXW  ( :. 859)
SU     0A OF CDannS - D)JDT AGEE f
I9C, as geCiaXzg agency, agreed:
Section  Stex3az Covemats               _et    -met       Not Net             Caiwts
2.02     To eq1oy consultants            x
satisfactoiry to Ilk to assist in
4ipr It-   the project.
2.03     To euplo pzvcurmrt              x
-rcdr,  IDCludif
intezbEtionl coupetitive
bidding, speciled by IDY.
2.04 (a) To iru   goods financed aIt of                      X
proceeds of the Credit.
2.04 (b) To use assets financed by the   X
project ealusively for the
project.
2.C5 (a) To prompt]y fUmish to IJA. all    X                                   oljgifnce, do=uts
poject plans, desgns and                                    ee not abmys timelJy lmzshed.
2.05 (b) TD nintain adequate records Of                      x      Project cost records vwe not
prject costs and experditares.                             adequate]y nsitsmd.
2.05 (c) To smmit a prject Cczletim      x                          Poject aoaleticn report sib-
repot to IDA witiihin six nths                             mitted to the Bc in 1aoenbe
after cmtiml of the project.                              19B3, 11 mcnths after capIetin
2.05 (d) To allow ID& repse      s to    x
eamn an  relevaat assets and
records.
2.06     To perfom a3ll obligtiom  under                     x      I= ha nELde no debt serwic
the on-lJeeiug ag reent.                                   psyMts to date.
3.01     To adopt appropriate finandal                       X
and operating prctice and to
undertae all necessaxy repei
3.02     T btske oat and miintain        
appropriate insurnce coverege
based mn a review completed and
smhbitted to IDA by Marh 31,
1gi9.



- 29 -
AiNEN 2-1
Fags 2
Secticn  Standard Covenants (cont'd)      met       met      Rot NOt                Ccnts
4.01 (a) To muintain adequate financial                         x      LWSC's fiancal systems are not
records prepared in accordance                               adequate to support its
with appropriate accounting                                  operations.
policies consistently applied.
4.02 (c) To subidt aulited Crlmndal                   X                Audited financial statements have
stateMants to the Bn1k annually                              not been suim6tted within the
within four mcnths after year                                specified timeframe. FY3 ao=unts
end.                                                         were on"y received in August 1993,
and auditors acceptable to IDA
have not yet been apponted for
FE5.
Special Coveflnts
2.OB     To fuiish reports on the                    x                Although reports were ftlmishd, they
Monitoring indicators,                                       have not been accurate and timely.
2.09 (a) To maIe satisfactory              X                           Covenant was genera1y conplied with.
arrngmnts for supervisin  of                                 However, it was not coaplied with during
C3struction.                                                 the early p#se of costruction of the
I(ite Plain  treatment plant expncon.
2.09 (b) To employ consultants to develop             X                Althou  cons.lltants were anployed, the
and implement training program                               triamng program was never successfzlly
by arch 31, 1979.                                            ixplesented.
2.09 (c) To carry out conltants'                      x
recmmadations with respect to
or4nizational structure,
staffn, trining and
operations.
2.10 (a) To employ qualifted persons in               X                ParLial compliance; positions of
the pDsitons of Pro.ject                                     Distribition ftLneer and InfoMELtion
Nmngr, Water &rppy Operation                                 SYstem  mnager renain unfilled.
Manager, Distribation Egineer,
Cmmercial Dizector and
Inforntion ystAn  Mmr.
2.10 (b) To not incree the mnber of                             x      IS staff incresed from 360 at apprisal
employees without c ultig                                    to 597 by the end of F-3.
with IDA.
2.11     To establish a trainig adminis-              x                Although a trainiD4 unit was established
tratioa unit by Yarch 31, 1979.                              in 1979, IMk's trainng program is not
adequate to meet its needs.
3.04     To adopt by-las by June 30,                            x      Adoption of by-laws is still peding.
1979.
x
4.01 (b) To maintain separate accounts                                 Covenant fully complied with, although
for the Water and Sewer                                      expense allocation to the Sewer Division
Divisions and the outstations.                               is arbitrary.



- 30 -
AMK 2-1
PFgO 3
PartLafy
sectim   la (Cit'd)   11t                       -mt       Not Mot               Ormte
4.03     Sartirg with 1978, to iwam                           x      ILC's flied amts bhve bea
asswts evethree yesM                                        mmrevajed acry ae, in 1978.
(mebsent llo.1).
4.04     T aeeve    rate of retuan 
not fixed asets emplyed Iy the
Water DLvisim of 4% for 1979,
increasinbg to  l for 19  asnd
thereafber.
4.05     To not inwr additiEa debt        x                          KVll m  of UM5.5 millice
m1ein    a debt coverae ratio of                            eqidwlent tD naovate the
1.2 mm  meet.                                               s_rge mu    win presub3y be
p i mn as eqAti to DM.
4.06     To ecplebe and ubuit a tariff                        x      A tIriff study is an-Lmt3Ly being
studr to IDA by lorch 31, 19B0.                             undertaken in ccanctimn with an
urban project, CH. 1223.
4.7      TD haVe mlJy metered serce by               I               YhW cutmrws are still bille
June 30, 1979.                                              based m efftitoes or flat rates.
4.C8     Th estahlijs anmidzintin two                         x      One additiona collecto  point
additional collection points.                                m established at Sinkor, btt mas
tl             Closed.
4.09     To limit cCapitaexpenitures                          x      DiSC udertoo  a US3.5 nillion
for other than the project to                               rnovatio of the severae system.
nmre thEn anmal inVtesntB of
LM500,0DC for the Water
nivian, U425,00 for the
Swer Dlision, and US950,000
for Oststatian.
4.10     To sxbnit to IDA cmplete plans                       X
for ar7 erpmicm of outstati
opertices.
4.11     To enforce all. water and                            x       MSC's efforts to elimiate
seerage cnction rules,                                      illegl connections and to enforce
regflations asn by -]ms.                                    collection have not yet been
April 1984



-3t -
AM= 2-2
UMD    OF LIB
S3KT oF arNEu - -aCD  AGRMW
The GoCrzimt of Liberl agreed:
Section  akvnts                          Not       Nst     Not YAt                 Cauunts
3.01 (b) To ezeaite an o-leis                        x               The o-leading agreenet eeuted
agreemt ith D9C proviing                                    a    in 1982 provided for UM2.0
for interest at 7.5% sard                                   mllion of tiie Credit prooeeds to be
rTePni over 20 years.                                       transferred as equity and 11 O
ndlli to be lent ca   I te.
3.02 (a) To pa its water and gewer bflI                      X      At June 30, 1983, GOL ares  to IDC
within two ,ntin after tilling.                             totaled U4.7 mzUlicr equivalent to
WE  I  tely 36 mnths' t 3li3is.
3.02 (b) To faed operating deicits of                         x      No IFU nfrts nude. Acamazlatad
the Sewr Diviaiui.                                          deficits exceeded U315.0 millin at
Jue 30, 193-
3.02 (c) To muks an equity coOtribiuLMn                       I
of U=22;,O0 to Lk  duing
19i8 as working capfitel for the
Sewer Dlvision.
3.02 (d) To unil equitY cotrihxdu  to    X                           KXf loan equivalent to US$.5 millicm for
IMi  to carry act the investut                              rewovati  of the sewraBe  ystn will
progmn of the Swer  ivisim .                                presuably be passed on as equity to ILW.
3.02 (e) To provide all couUrPrt ftias                        X      Altwgh GOL cotribited the equivalent of
required for the prject not                                 US$3-5 miUjon to DM to carry rut the
genmted frLn DM's revenus.                                  Project, the campont for exasic  of
LIWC's distributio systan m wot
cmpleted due to lack of ftnding.
3.02 (f) To fled all. operating defcits   X
relating to t1 e acrtatiaos.
3.03 (a) To enstitrbe 1M's Bsazd of                           x      G(OL, thrw its public sector reform
Directors in accordae with the                              progran, is in the process of addressing
PFibic Autborities Iaw.                                     the issue of coampoition of the Bord.
3.03 (b) To t fer to IJW assets and                           X
liabilities of all ater supply
system  wdde of 1MrV3A.
3.03 {c) To isform IL in advance of                           X      Thee vera four canges of ?4Bang
proposingappdnbunts to the                                  Diector during pmject exezutio. IDA
position of Yhnging Director of                             was never inforned in advance.
Li.
April 1984



-32 -
ARM 3-1
EKWa OF TI;rI
)DIWKIA WA= saPPL PLWT (OR. 859)
UAIID    & aF IL F       ! CO!
amL Egt.
SAR                ML Am    B                = LOX
et2mtE e   Actal   Tom    Ion    COF Loan  anui Other
Vbite Plains Tretint Plnt asnz cmi           472         7    3662               19          297
lb  Water Plpslin                           1         2246            1725                   521
Ass_stma  Traig, an Sector
st,zies                                    125)       2632    :                             610
-zeuMfsy St. hidn                             944       1673   10C6                           597
.b Patnt BOSter StatiM                                   62    426                            336
Urb*m Poor - StaMpipeE                       130D       752    492                            260
OAU Tcmmmissikn Ngin             1w                     301             301
B*dpunt (3
Mom md Vehicle)                             22D        243    251       6
Des4p  emd    1siCEL                          80)1.     1455     85    615                    755
Diztrihitlo System Eumndic                   1Z79
C                                      .  5s_2213
16019      18391  130D   2647       196B        5776
April 1984



8-
7
o~                                                                                                         -
6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E a                                                                              3.2   |              .e     '-'    ': '' t.   sEt
*  a     t .6     4.1   42.4          i      w
c      5~~                                                                       9       3.       .1     2.
.2 1.    51.
.6 1.4    1.
E                                                                                 of2 1    4.2      1.9   54'. ''
5     1.1     6.4   42.6
4     4.?     4.6   12.1                 t
ga~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. X  ,,   ':'.
W                                                             III~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  I    l.2  6.6   33.1 
I    1.2      6.6   31.2
3  1.?     6.6  396.5A 
64   ' '.         6. 6    56.3 
79    80    81    82    83    84    85    86    87    88 4
0    Actual Disbursement                +  Appraisal Estimate                   O Standard Profile



AM= 5-1
FMTCM OF Lim1a
IIA Wmm  rppiI 1E    (CR. aig)
DRE aBNr AND ffMWARn   zMMcAo (Ig7)
Ml          FnrI                         nei 9 
Fbrmt   Actal   Fmcnt   Actoul    bumst   AAbml   IbeeCaiF Actax    Ibrct lutimte
OpDmtLng InlicatorB
Water Prauced (uinn s&Q,           4016       390       4202      427        6en       6569       4918      4453       5176      49)
lter Bllled (illi   l)p            2M4       190        2413      2145       4m0)      3a6        2992      222i       3202      2431
ooountsd-for         0               50        51         43        49         40        54         39        50         38        50
Avemp Water Ekts
(us$ per  Wion 821)5             1.84      1.9s       2.19      2.09       2.49      2.19       2.78      2.39       3.C5      1.96
INberof  hiftoys- Ei of eTr         360       409        376       4S7        404       557        424       605        444       597
Prvate      R                        19      3354       4649      39k)       8740      6064       7131      4401       84C2      4159
_owsi~it B1fl~zp~d/                1523      1518       2(4       1603       39        22         3236      1927       3728      1348
Govrzt SLlLKi                      324                  309                  t5i                   49                    1
Secmdaq Oente                                                      144                  216                  144                  144
Otbhr Incom                         335                   48        77         2                    62        145        6         42
550       4872       1         579      i25; 12     548       106 6517            T9           I56
Low: Bd Debts P     mvisim          844        511       930      1056       1446      1719       1C62       1506      1167      1593
45         361       616        W       TI4      1               IT      5111      11       41W0
OEERIG IEWBM
Persel                             1053       1073      1464      1264       Z39       2B79       1666      2313       1904      2350
UtilL                              675       6D3       711        932       1123      113         821      1124        a66      1343
.CalsuLDR                           195       218        z26       255       406        501        33        312        3B4       330
_ into2                                       448       371        400       72B        3          6Rj       245        6B4       185
Ge Jinm                             229         9'       264        e/        481       370        718       215        45        265
AdLiz trn                            f        432         f         18        f/        716         0'       639        f/        632
Otb.r kp.us                         6am        244      731        186       i10i        67   m 71            29        152 10
Depmelatia                         1126       634       1484      1560       2910      2171       2419      183D       Z1        199D
4_18-  3R      i    5251       49-75     90D ai15              W   i R    7        iE
:smm        (M _= 1 1:_nis            4T7       5U7       909       (2B5)     290W      (1936)      2425     (1596)      3174    (L05) 
Net Interest Ebpie                  525       350        511       519       1352      8a0        1254      I=  It   140W        1903L
s_m        (nmm   AB  na_                        t5-7    3   9    S         H 55  11i              T) 172  tX;           774      1;~)
pInmncial Inlicatoxs
ate of Ifhbzrn                      2.3       2.2        3.5      (0.9)       5.0      (2.7)       5.7      (3.7)       6.9      (6.6)
0jmtlng Elatio:
- Befoe Deprdatica                 66        69        61         73         53        92         49        95         46       125
- AferDprciatim                    9D8        85                 106   7     8        123         74       131        71        173
Avee Ne teiablesAiet BLilini        .23        .O7       .19       .          .19       .55       .19       1.02        .19      1.62
- Ttal                             e3        77         83        62         86        6B         87m       47                   56
- Private                          69        78         76        64         91       fA          Q         53        83         62
- Governt                         IOD        76        1X         59        10         78        10         34        1CD        40
a/  18 .mlta (Ebne In flscal yer).
Galns Mlled 1979-6 adjusine to reftect dc ptkg  mfte%ient33 mde in iam iiu  =51tA7  U1.
,  BUinr ncods wunnabe eaoevldenced yavelle rand   mtlz.beig 1digr thwn w -.tariff.
d/ See related note I/ on page 17 and GOM correspondence at Appendix B.
et Not separately recorded.
f/  Not separately projected.
g/ Interest on IDA Credit is calculated at 7.5Z, although the on-lending agreement
executed during FY82 provides for a rate of .75Z.
Aprl 1984



FM= ae LM
PAAB    SES  (19l-g)
PlriB          Z~~~Y1               FBIs                 F?2                 FM
Poset   A*uAl   Fornmt   Actml    FWoolt    Actml    bronlt- Alctul   Fbl18t   E1bteft
ASSEM
Fixed Aebf                       3Ui1      418l,9     3M2       46BO       5601D     57        61B1       93D       71770      67t50
TLm: AJxmlatedDerdto              gm7)   (1Q5B)   kM96)   LI13110)   (_I6324)   (152Bt)   t9967)   (17111)    MM19)   kz1s)
Nogt 1P   Abet                 2;XI9      dtSl      Zf5       35373      3i746       (8       44911     4Z73      475?2      4W49
Cowt     _d   In Rzgm             19        2t69       5147      4573       33!       2S17      2f!D       6S39      594        3g9
Dsfa7    MQr_                                 374                 296                  180                   67
TtlPxd Amat                 ZA99       34t33     32492     40242      43       -Wt    _      W       4B1        5         47W
Accuns lbsctbae: PeiAt        St5             995      1013      1357       1261      180        1499      2757 g                 6
Govrmn          2tiB     12yo       39        191Ri      362      2457        421      3EF52       4132     4729
Othe                                           310
10 E   2245-    -r522          365F 162U 19gSi4M67
Innutol                            282       529        370       350        SM        2i5       605         69       693        1D
Omb                                323       18t3       390      2456       1036      1602      2U12        (22)     3710        go
Toa Cumrwt AmmeX                1678   _ 57          22       - g        --        -91 2ii; ii         -6W5 61                7205
2wX1      3M:       34574      466St     46MB      53214      5290D     59;910     60aiE;    Yi655
EY & LTAUM
.-vumt Cmritm                     51S        6227      6498      758        7472      954       8t8D      tQj39      912       12109
Fmaufi   9kp                      am 4   1699D         99B      21247      13306     21247  1619  2t247             19556     21247
Booid Bas    (Ddctt              LI695)    (1375)    (1295)    (079)        (138)    (4635)     1035      (7MS)      aM9    (11376}
12142    21812  1ti3t    -3             g i          i-9     :rR5w     34<    31"           2199D
w&5=Debt: DL                                       7C9       1525      7148      4294       79Et      6679     tS0         8
Otbwr             16M6       15152     IS=1      15675      182       1746t     18W5       17799     19656      17M9
1( 5152        199         7D       219       2745       0i52      ;W41      iii       Wg27
Acmmto Payable            253       1615       27       26e6        3S6      5061       335       6405i      31;      7624
O*tor Depidits                      66        III        as       16D        116       212       136        232       156       252
Toabl Oart LbUtLes31                      -1 At9    -w  GB2E             4-22  5~Z73          4-7t       O          -52D  j7
_T         3MO;    34574       4669t     4SM        53214     5250D     5990       a65       55655
curent Foto                          5.3       2.7        5.8       2.3       7.5        1.2      tO.5        0.9      12B8        0.9
Al 19B4



REPUELIC OF IEE2RIA
M)NROVIA WATER SUPIM X EXJ) (CR. 859)
OURC   AND) APPIUCATION5 OF FU1BB (1978-83)
FM18                 FM9                   FYBI                  FY                    FM
Forecast  Actual   Forecast   Actua    Forctst   Aotual   Forecact   Aoial   obrecast   Etimate
-     '   - ~~~~ '         tEU$  c00
SOURC=  OF EU
Inoom (Ims) frum Operatiom             477        507        909       (25)       250       (1586)      2426      (1596)     3174      (300)
Add: Depreciaticm                     1126        834       1484       1560       2910       2171       2419       1830      Z3         1990
Cash Generated from Operations     1603      1341       2393       1275       5417        595       4845        234       5907     (1015)
Required for Woring Capital:
(Increase) Reduation in Accomts
Receivable                         (31)    (1048)       (249)     (I38B)      (301)      (631)      (296)    (1925)       (327)      (839)
(Increase) Reduction in Irventory   (157)      (311)       (88)       179       (134)        95      (101)        186       (78)        (1)
inorease (Reduction) in Accamta
Pyapble                             73        1180        23       1054         3D       2392         29       1344         29       1219
Inrease (eduction) in Consumr
Depomits                             1 1       42         20         49         30         52         20         20         20         2D
(104)     (13).     (294)       (106)                                        37 195 (348)  (315)  )  339
Required for Debt Service              1044       h30       1337        519       26         E80        2100       1050       Wm9        1090
L.wh Available (Required) before
Capital OutJa                        455        854        762        650       2362       1623       2397      (1191)      2972     (1766)
Vpita1 Outl 1994                                1152       4T71       3412      10192       9C2        302        4441      5CX5        733
Belanoe to be Finanoed             1539       298       4009       2762       7830       7399        695       5632       2          2499
Finanoed frcm:                                                                                                                                     ;
Lir~I  ~:                            1371      (309)      3367       2048       7502       4545       1363       273        2107       1321
Gover 1jen. E4uit,                   340       1478        709       1357        974       200D        7t8       1275       1244       1250
Incrwee (Reduotion) in Cah          172       _i          67        643        646       (854)      1076      (1624)      1298         72
April 1984



ORGANIZATONAL CHART LW8.C.
'  -'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
DI 0
r           -       -  r    wi
iGra RftCSSI
1984



- 38 -
ANNE 7
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
MONROVIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CR. 859)
ASSUMPTIONS FOR THE COST/BENEFIT ANALYSIS
The Base Case
1.       This takes the most orthodox approach for vater supply projects and
assumes:
- as cost: all incremental capital and recurrent costs, as well as
an estimated replacement cost of the life of those investments,
- as benefits: the incremental revenues to LWSC out of the sales of
incremental water supplied. Future tariffs are assumed to stay
constant in real terms after 1984.
The result is an Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of -0.6%.
Assumptions for the Base Case
A. Time Adjustments of data up to FY81
2.       As LWSC switched from FY81 onvards to a fiscal year starting in July,
its PY81 covered 18 months. In order to achieve consistency, the data in the
years prior to FY81 were also converted to cover July-June periods using the
following approach:
i)    the data for FY81 have been reduced to 2/, of the original
values since these covered a period of 18 months;
ii)   the data for assumed "FY80" include 1/3 of the original FY81
values plus 1/2 of the original CY79 values;
iii)  the data for "FY79" includes CY78 and 1/2 of the original CY79
values; and
iv)   the capital cost for FY78 is 1/2 of the original CY78 value.



- 39 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
The below table shows the figures:
Pbnrovla Water Suppay  oet
Inv Pimlt CoBs and Water PodUc   (18 197
Acta Rsoodig                             Ad,
Water PRdaction  Capi1tl Costs        Water Prodwtio   Capital Cost
Year            al.)      u'000       Year    (nzuim gal.)   ______
Cri8         390D            1152     FY18                          576
CY79         42a7            313D     Yf19          405A           2141
FM          46569            687      FM            4293           3B61
Fi           4453            3127    FEB1           4379           4591
F=           490)             482     FM            4453           3127
34           5145                     Im3           490)            02
FY35412                                 84          5145
F86          5672                       B5          5402
87-C4        5840                     F1m           5672
1187-16      540
B. Useful Life of Assets and Replacements
3.       Civil works       : 35 years upon completion (1981).
Vehicles         :  5 years, at an estimated value of US$243,000 in
1981 prices.
Equipment        :  15 years; for the Booster Station an estimated 1/3
of its total cost, or USS254,000 in 1981 prices;
for the treatment plant an estimated 1/3 of its
total cost or US$2,776,000 in 1981 prices.
The above replacement costs, for which 1981 prices served as a reference have
been converted to 1978 prices using a deflator of 1.31. A residual value has
been retained in 2016 for vehicles (4/5th of original value) and for equipment
(9/15th).
C. System Efficiency
4.       At project completion date, the system efficiency was at 50%, it is
assumed that with continued management activities following project
completion, this rate will reach 70% by 1989 and sustain that level
thereafter.



- 40 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
D. Unit 0&K Costs
5.       A cost of US$0.54/m3 has been estimated based on LWSC data, which
howveer does not necessarily reflect "sound" operating practices (i.e.,
satisfactory maintenance, proper dosage of chemicals).
E. Average Tariff
6.       The average tariff is based on actual figures converted to 1978
prices using deflators as shown in the table below:
LVSC Tariffs
Year                CY78    CY79    FY81    FY82    FY83
Deflator                     -      1.09    1.31    1.42    1.52
Tariff in current prices   1.98    2.09    2.19    2.39    1.95
Tariff in 1978 prices:
(US$/thousand gal.)      1.98    1.92    1.67    1.68    1.29
Alternative A
7.       This alternative argues the following:  it is widely estimated that
about half of the unaccounted-for water (UFW) is due to illegal connections;
hence half of UNW is actually consumed. The fact that no revenue is collected
by LWSC is more indicative of LWSC's lenient billing and collection approach
rather than perceived marginal benefits by the consumers. Thus, this
alternative incorporates 50% of the UFW (systems losses) as consumption and
assigns an economic value equivalent to the actual tariffs to these
consumption quantities. The resulting IRR is 2.4%.
Alternative B
8.       While system efficiency, and thus, estimated consumption is
maintained the same as the base case, the incremental benefits have been
increased, to reflect the actual willingness to pay demonstrated by the
consumers already in "FY78". One could argue that, once the consumers have
valued the marginal benefits of water supply to be equivalent to US$1.98 in
1978 prices, there is no reason why these marginal benefits should decrease in
subsequent years. A lover tariff per m3 would indicate a political judgment
not to maintain tariff levels in real terms rather than an expression as to
marginal benefits. The resulting IRR is 5.2%.



- 41 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4
Alternative C
9.       This alternative combines the arguments of above Alternatives A
and B. The resulting IRR is 8%. The assumptions underlying this alternative
are likely to be closest to the SAR assumptions.
Alternative D
10.      This alternative takes into account the consideration, that actual
incremental recurrent (0 & M) cost does not necessarily take into account
proper operating procedures. These "proper" operating procedures (e.g.,
better maintenance, appropriate use of chemicals, etc.) are believed to be
about 40% higher than the currently recorded levels. Thus this alternative
integrates this consideration, leaving everything else constant as in the base
case. The resulting IRR is -14.5%, indicating the sensitivity of the project
to recurrent cost implications.
Alternative E
11.      This alternative combines alternatives C and D above.  The resulting
IRE is 5.0%.
Tables
12.      The following pages show the tables with IRR calculations for the
Base Case and the above-mentioned five alternatives.



-3.
0.4
3                                                                                                 5  
*0
3                                                                                                 Sn
=3.3      3 is                                                                         is  *  -C
- 0       * 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 - is is is  is . is  is 4 is is is is is is is  is is is I    *  S ii
3              oOoOoOoooOcis..isisaisooooooo00..s'4.   -
-z        . ..isa.4isO. Ojisa.4a.  0 .a...isai..isis 0.0..  isa   iaO..OS                     .9            3 (ji
a.4                                                                                                           gq
-         3                                                                              4
*                                                                             3
-        3
i's     3
C       4                                                                              3m',
353     5                                                                              3     C
*                                                                              3 0 0 -
* 3 5 3      5 is&Si*C*isi5iS.5is54iSistMi*ii5Si*iStS.5.S..4S&MtS*$SS.AtSkM    aaaaa Z. a
* - - - 0 0 o  0 0 0 0 0 0 0  0 0 0 0 0 0  is o 0 0 0 0 0 a  a - is a    o    - c a
II            I  S   a S  S a a a 0 a a a a a a a a a a a 0 a a a a a a a - 0 a o is -J is is  3  a n
o = = = 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 o 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 o 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 o - - is o .a - - a
-  a  *, a    3                                                                              *
a  '9         .                                                                              5
*                                                                              S  a
-MM         3                                                                              35--n
flU           3                                                                              3U*
0*            3                                                                              3  .9
ainCC                                                                                        *   U
*                                                                              * a', a
a  isa        *                                                        is                    3
Cl *  a    a  is is is a  is is 4* is is is iS  is is is is is is .  is is is is iS is *5 is is is is is  3 -  0  -  3  0
0 .9 .9     3 a a a a a a a a a a *aaaaaa a a a a aaaaaaaaa-40is00                         3 - a -
*            '4   '49. *J.9S'4'49..4 4 J'4 .95,,9. - .93  9. '4  '4.4 -a3    -
-'urn
-  a      9                                                                              3
o  -      3                                                                              3  3*
3                                                                              5  -
- -  a        3                                                                              3  -1*
CC            3                                                                              3--.-
rnrn-                                                                                       a    -
i.9UU        *                                                                              3is
-  -.        3                                                                              *   a  a
o 000         3                                                                              5  mU
o   0  a  *   3  '4  '4  -   .3 -  .4  .935  4  '4  '4  .4  .93  9.  '4 -J  .9. .4  9. '4  4  '4  9. .95 '4  -.. 0   0  is 45 4* is  is  3  fl
o 0- 300000000000 00000000000000000a. aOisOOo 5 C
*                                                                              3
3                                                                              3  C-
*                                                                              3  -  =     S =
3                                                                              3 isfl     S -.
3                                                                              mU   a  -   3 353
3                                                                              3  fl*      35
3                                                                              30   U       Z
--                                                                                            a   a      3
*50is 3* isa = Er
O -  is       * 0 a 0 o o a o  a o a a a 0 0 0 o 0 0 o a a 0 0 0 0 0 a 0 is a - a -             - -
3 foOOoOfOoOeoOooOoOOoooooOisisOisaooa    S isa a  S S
3                     hfhlhl5           3.1 5&siefi.3   is005'5S0.,           S  a -
3                                                                              3
3                                                                              3           53q
3                                                                              5   -
3                                                                              iC          303
3 OCla       NI 0
*                                                                              S-Ca       I  I Z
ClClClCl      *                                                                              .  a a       S3 S
33                                                                             3 - - -      3. 0
0000                     is                           -b                          isais..  scaM          3 S C
53.3       a                   -         a         -         -     a.sOisi 0   a           ice  -
* is       is        0                   is        0         0     Obis9.5  0              5 SI
(itt 3 0 iS is 0 is is 9..-3 3
a a a a C
3                                                                              3          lisI  5 5
a a * a 3 3 3 - I .4 3 3
- - - .9      3                                                                              3 -         353 i*i 3 'fi
*                                                                               is  C     15353  C
*aa           3                                                                              3  fl   isI   I   SW
.9"00         3                                                                              3  Cis  is    3133 3'
00            3                                                                              3  a    '41 Cli C 3
aaaa    3 000000000000000000000000000000000000    30is  e.ws 'us Cl
*                                        . . . ...    aao 3 mm-. 'urn
S ASisisistisSis.ASisSishlisiisiisissSisSSisisisisisisisisisis                 9-       is IfS  r3  0
* a          * aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa    3  Z '9I Cl-CS
a           *                                                                              5        -E 31    3
-   =         3                                                                              5        aSs. *5333
a         s                                                                               -   a  a .-g, ss
a   a         *                                                                              3 C   -  aEisIoE  0
a   a         3                                                                              31*  Z     S 01(33.
a             3                                                                              3          * ZI 3.3 S
-   U         3                                                                              5    Cl    3   3  Cl 3  -
*   a                                                                                        3 -  0     3 01 .43 5
*  3                                                                                         50   a     3  I
= is          3 OOOoOofOOOOOOooooOoOoooOoOOoOhlisa&.                                         .0 is  3 3is
*  is is  is    is .  is   a  is is    is c.   .. is is  is    .4 ... is  .. a  is 0  0  a  5 0  a  3  *  Cl
0         3 issS.UisisSisisisishAisis.*isisSAiSS*isisistfisisishfistfisisis0ine.a.       3           S SI S
0  U          3                                                                              5          505
=  -                                                                                         3    .4    3 C. I o
-  .          3                                                                              555  0     13.3 is
'a SC 3 Cli is
*                                                                              .1*   a    E.g. -
3 S - - 3
--5--         3                                                                              3          Sf
a                                                                                      3    Cl    30.
*S *         3 3         is       is        is        is        -                  Sais is  30   0      *=
O       3 45 0 0 0 0  0 0 0 a 0 0 0 0 0 a 0 0 0 0 is - 0 0 0 0 0 0 - 0 is is  0 is - 0  iS 3 0   a  3 'u
isisisa       3 isisisisisis.Sisis.4isisisisEisisisisis.4isE.is3.Sfisis.4is.aisis...'4  30              33..
is      3  isis.Sisisisisis.A0isisMis0SSiSistSisaCA.ais0isl.isisO.a00n'4..-.3               a     33.
is      3                                                                                          1.4
*                                                                              3          5-
3          50
z
3.3                                                                              3.44        5.4
53                                                                               3 isa a     * is
XE                                                                               3   .9 '9   5
is-isis 53CisP 1 n
* . 3-.baisc
is 0 is 3 is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is 35.5 is is a 3 is
O  0  0  is  5   3  is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is  is is is is is  is is is  is 0  '4  3 is
53
.43                                                                              3    -
3.3                                                                              35   =
SC 534
03                                                                                 (ISa '9
.9,3                                                                             34  a
3 aM
53                                                                               3    a
3.3is 30cm
.4 3 is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is  is is is is 3.3 is is .4 is is is is is is 0 '4 is is is 3 0 a -
C 3 is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is * is is is is is - is is 0 '4 is is '4 3 0 - a
*   3  '4  '4  .95 '4 '4 '4 '4 '4 '4 .3 '4 '4 '4 '4 '4 '4 -. '4 .93 '4 '4 '4 '4 '4 '4 is  is  is is a   is  3  is  -
=3 3
5               3                                                                              En
0               3                                                                              SC   Z
'5              5                                                                              31*  a
3                                                                              3   is
35  3                                                                              3    a
3  3           5                            5                           S   3   3   3  3    -  is
is         03             is                                                      Eisa is is 3 30   -
a          U   3 .4.50 iaisis.ais sa.4isisisisisis.aisis .45c5 tsisisisisaaris isSOisoisis 3 0   a
0          rOE isOOOisOOO*i.4OOOO'4O.OOisOO0O'4O0O0O0isis9.OOS'4 30  *
a          U -3 isistJ isisisisisis'4isisis'4isisisfishlisisisisisfhlis
peE                                                                                3
 mIij
 X3NNV



ALTENNATIVE A asisumes higher system efflclency)
....- ........                                                                     REPUILIC Of LISERIA
MONROVIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CR5059)
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN (IRRI CALCULATION BY PROJECT COMPLITION TIME
(IV7?-prices)
Year        Vater   Incremental        System    InerTIMntal   Investrent          Unit 0AM  o0M Costs  Total Costs            Average       Bmnefits   Noetst:ca
Produc  Vatoe  Plod   Etfictency Vator Sales             Costs           Costs                                       Tariff
i  gal I   t  gal I           (%2         Is gal.)   CUSS  OO01    Elit qll   gUSt '0003   IUSS 'o0o0    tllt.9al   gust I              0001   lUSt '0001
1178          N A.                                                        576                                         574                                        -574
1979          4054                                                       2141                                        2141                                       -3141
19l0          4293                                                       3141                                        3541                                      -3561
1951          4379             la             75             45          4591           0 54             44          4637           1.47           505         -4530
1982          4453            I4O             75           1ti           31t7           0.54             96          3213           1.43           202          -3012
1965          4900            407             75           455            482           0.S4           328            I10           1.29           557           -213
1964          5145            652             76           645                          0.54           440            440           1.29           53!            315
1985          5403           119             78           5S9                          0.14           599            599           1.29          1101            520
1964          5672           1379             79          105s           15            0.54           745            930           1.29         11 0             474
1957          5550           1547             5I           1253                         0.54            535            3S          12.29          1616            751
l95l          5840           1547             53          1254                          0.54           535            355           1.29          1456            5i3
1959          5840           1547             95          1315                          0.54           935            535          129           1696            oi1
199O          5840           1547             I5          1315                          0.54           535            635           1.29          1694            541
1991          5540           1547             85          1315           15            0.54           135           O0O           I 29          1696            478
1299          5840           154,             Is          1325                          0.54            835           535           1.29          1694            6l1
1993          5540           1547             55          1315                          0.54           535            355           1.29          1696            56l
1994          5840           1547             Is          1315                          0 54           535            135           1.29          1696            516
1995          5640           2547             65          1315                          0 54            835           835           1.39          1696            511
1196          5540           1547             a5          1315           2498          0.54            555           3333           1 21          194l         -1437
1997          5540           1547             Ss          1315                          0.54           539            635           2.29          696            5il
1996          5540           1547             55          1332                          0 54           *35            335           1I 39         2696            53
1999          5540           1547             5s          1315                         0.54            135            535           1.29          1696            sit
2000          9540           1547             as           1315                         0 54            $35           535           1.29          169             al1
2001          5540           1547             85          1315            59           0 54            *35          1030           1.29          1694            676
2002          5540           1547             85           1315                         0.54            135           52S           1.29          1696            5al
2001          9540           1547             a5           1315                         0 54           635            555            29          1496            o61
3004          5640           1547             55           1315                         0.54            535           513           1.29          1694            561
3005         5940            1547             55           1315                         0.54            835           65s           1.29         1Is6             all
0oo6          5840           1547             5s           1315           155           0 54           535           1020           1.29          296             6 76
2007          5840           1547             aS          1325                          0 54            835           135           1.29          3696            o61
0OO0          5540           1547             55          1315                          054            5 35            12.9                       2696t           o6i
5009          5840           3547             is           1315                         0 54            135           535           12.9          2696            al6
2010          5540           1547             65          1315                          0.54            835           535           1 3t          1696            516
2011          5840           3547             is          1315           2491           0.54            535          3353           1.29          2696          -1637
2012          5840           1547             6s           1315                         0.54            135           535          13.9           1696           51
2013          9540           1547             55          1315                          0.54           535            535           1.9           1696             61
2014          5840           1547             S5          1315                          0.54            5s            535          121.29         2696            563
2015          5540           1547             55           1315                         0 54            835           835           1.39          1696       1    a6
2015          5540           1547             iS          1315          -1351           0 54            135          -516           12.9          2696           2212
.................................................._............................................................................................. ...
INTERNAL RATE of RCTIURN             2 .44,1



- '44 -
ANNEX 7
Page 7
m
* -5  PPCaaaa-                                    Wp..a.s*.p..a.O m
* 0 8 8aCOOC.aaCOnCOOoaoOoCa.CoOaPPOOOOaCOCCP * -
*  OS CaCOI...C-PPPPPPPPPPPPn.                     PP PPPPPPPPP'8PPfl.PPPPPPSP.a
-  0g  mn-an.                                                                  a
-     m   m  S    m    8                  5                                       m  U
a WI
z .
-    S                                                                        S
*                                                                          I
a PP * WP a , a a PP a a a a a a a a a * a a a a a a aaeaaaaae a *
- o m a mit a P. 0 a n a a a a a a a a a a a * a a a a a a a a a a a a a S
-- C m *aPPCa
o . - - - PP PP PP n PP PP PP PP PP C. PP PP PP PP C U PP p.4 PP eU UP 4 PP eU PP a PP p.. 5
*  -    m                                                                        m  Li
     5                                                                          5
a VP,
 8                                                                           SC,
-    ,                                                                        S
*                                                                          S  Li
*                                                                          .1-
* a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 0 a a a a a a a a m
*.. *            aa9                                            .a.a.a.   ma
. a m - - - . . - 5
5.85    *.   I
=   m  -  -  m                                                                           S C
- m    a a-i                                                                             9=
                                                                                        ma
*    'C  a.                                                                            8 Li
2*         S                                                                            SI-
am
*          I                                                                           m  -
I-..
hi *    S  PP 5 - -   SPP OC   CCC VP COWP CUP CPP CC CPC SP    nO VP CCCPPC VP CUp
.58    -  0 *NaPP                 PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPSPPPPPSPPPPECPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPS.PPPPP   I
a. P    a  0 8 VP - a  PP a a C  a a a a C a a a a PP a a a a C a a a a 0 a a a a PP a a a a VP 5
= 8    0  C *  p..PPaPP                -         UP                          PP
OS     hi  -
hiS
*                                                                                      m
..mt..m    C  WI
Shim    -      I
C *hi *    0  - I
a  5  S    I     I
mom         -.          a  Cs. CC
= *  *                               C C C a VP    a C a C a C mip C  C C C a C VP C VP VP VP S C C
hi  * P.   a    C       .. a  PP -  a. a  PP PP pp PP n  aP  in.., -  PPPP PP PP PP PP PP PP PP -  PP PP PP PP PP PP ma PP PP PP
- m m  - Cm                 .mamnm-aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
in,..    a  Cm
,CII-. ma.    a  -
- *hi          U     I
-  hi *1          -
hi   m0       Z  dim
a SO * * a  -  = I
-   P =   8  I a  0  -   m                                                                       I
8 5. m  P Q
83 *
- ,. *, - = - aWaaaaaaaaaaaa
O 8.5 mUP a.   - m    PC .C.,CCCCCVPVPCCCCCC*'.CCCVPCCCCCCCCCVPC *
ma.  laS  ,    0   a  8                          -   -          -         -  -  -
urns. 'C SO  ..S   CCCOCCCOCOCCCOCOOOCCOOOOOOOCCOCCOCCO
- * m SC  --
.83W *  ma.    01
a,   *- 8.   CSJ'
ma ma
p. mamaS          -
hi   *  I..   8  -  P  I
= IC
I  I           8                                                                           5
2.    -  -. m  - - -  pa    C                   a                  a        a         -
'C m  m    C  Cm Pa.PPa           a        a         a.       a         a        a.        Cm
- Sb m    -  0 SC.aC-             -        -                  -         -        a         PP
>     8    SaCs   m..baPP                            PP                          PP        -
o mhi m
amam       a a   8
aceS                                                                             m
o mg.. m    PUtt
z    C
I-.          8
'C 8    - a   m     ... C a PP 0 CPP PP 4.PP. SPPPPP4PPmPdPPPni8.PPPm.m PP PP PP PP PP
a *    S a PP 5       a o a - C    a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a.  a a  a a a a a a a a a
8 PP - - a a. C C C 0 C 0 C C 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 C C C C C 0 C C 0 C C C C C
m    C- m
C8
2      U  Cm
am     *m.  8                                                                            8
hitm    -aS  8                                                                           8
m    CS -
-.     -    8
*                 P.  8      C C C PP n a p.. CC C 0 C C C C C C C C C C C C C C 0 0 C o 0 o C C C o C
t8  8      CM'mPP'CP   S.P-  P.P..P.P.P.P.P.SP.P.S rI'-P.8'.t. fP.P.P.1PP
-               CC   8
o               a.
0..             ..u
Ca.             h.--
-     m        C.PP. .8- P.'- r-.. r-p.r...e-mm'-...P.m. I. ..m.P.c. mm c-P..'.- m m
a              S a   m      a - 0 C Cm                  aC,        ee.   a            a a a a a
* a             0   m         - .a   PPCC YmCa CC CCCCC CCC WPVPCCCS. ChlPh vmCa UPab. m
-.               C..- m
C                    8
acm              S    m
P.C              * -
--               -aCm
Ca
a.-             -
C                   PP 8   U PPOCPPPPCCCCCCOCCCCCCCCCCCOOCOOCCCC 000
a              S.. U  8 C C  8' C C a C c- -  C     -    a  a a aa a - a. -
a,               a  mabaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa Sea
a -             - a m 2C.SPII- CCCCCCCCCCCCCCC.t-VPOCCCCCmn maCC
--               50Cm
a. U
Cm
hiS                    8
>5
I-* m            -    m Ca.C..P-fln.CS.a   C.PPPPaC              .CCPPPPCOS. aa.C .PPPP afl
C m              -  m P. .'.aaa.aaaa.aaa.0a aa. a.a.-C-a CCCOCCOoC
- m              a ma.- e.......CCCCOCCCCCOCCCCOC
0 m    . mp.. CPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPUPP PP
him
I-.
'C



- 45 -
ANNEX 7
Page 8
*                                                                       4g4
*  - 4  .4a..4.4.4r.r-aa.4aaaacaoaafoaoanan.aoeaaoa. 4fl 4*
*  0 4 P0W  -   ..0.   a W0.        awe  ..Ob. 4. WoW            .4aW -  ..4 40 b
*  0 4.4-a-b   0.4W4-mC.P4i.'P4*.PC.W44  r-.4-w,PP4-4%.4sr-4s4 4 .4,
- 04 4.4.40.4- -                                                           oP
-  .  4  4  4  4  4                                                          4   42
*    4
-  - 4
* .44
z
4-4
*                                                                       4
- .4 00flfl.w.eW'eee.WCe 4
-  o 4      42 4.. 0 0 0 .4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 a 0 o 0 a 0 a 0 a 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 a 0 0 4 0
- 04  .4.4Pe,WWWWWW.WWWWWW  4
-  0   4          -  -  .4 4, -  .4 fC .4 4  -  .4 -  .4   .4 44 .4 .4 a  n  fl .4 .4 a  * .4 .4  4 4.
*  -   4                                                                     44.4
a    4                                                                        0
*  .44                                                                       4
a  4.  4                                                                    44..
=4                                                                        40
4-   4                                                                    4
4                                                                       44.2
*                                                                       4*..
a a a - - a a a - a a - - a a - a a 0 0 a 0----- 0 a004 4C
*a.4ab.4c.ba.4.4c..4bwb.4..a..4  4
U -    -    4  -   .                           .   .  .          -           4
4.44 *4sa
=4     - -  4                                                                        4 'C
.44    *  U                                                                         4Z
4-4    a4--'                                                                         * -
4 C - 4 4 444
= 4       44                                                                        44-
04           4                                                                       '=
4           4                                                                       4.4
4-4          4
4.4 4 a - 4 W.4.40000fl.404r4f04VbflV4W4S.bW
a *        a 4 4..C..4  24 44 4*4 4, 4, .4 4*4 4 .4.44  4..4..fl.4 n  a  .4 4 4.4 0' 4.1 .4 - 4
0. 4    46 0 4 04 - 0    0  44* a    0 a 0 a a - 0 .4 - a 0 a 0 a a a 0 a a a  a .4 a a a a a 4
S 4    0  04   42S0'4,                -        .4      -         -        .4       . 4
04     U  - I
4.44         4                                                                       4
*    -  04                                                                        4-
-    4  I   4  .  *4   4                                                               4
* ,4.54    -  = 4
04   4 -   4  0  -   4                                                                  4
a   .)   *  4..  4
.04           4                                                                       4
0404            4        .aO.flb4,in4..0,snt,a,fly)S.,flt4n..44W4,4flg, 4
4.4,0.4       ol       000'0'0'4,4,fl4,.4fl.40'.4.4flfl44.44,fl4.0'fl4,0'W40'40' 4
- . . - a.    t4.r.aaaaaaaaaaaaaafooaaaeafa 4
I 4    46 04
.4-ga.    *  -
-  4  13   4  4  4.5  4
=   4 4.2  4 =   4  a   4
444*, e...4      ci 4                                                                       4
- .0 .  * a  -  = 4                                                                         4
-   4 0   4 4-.  4  -  0  -   4                                                             4
a   * a.  ,  .  u
* a.-.        U
1.44   4=4 -  =  .44                                         0 0                 0000001
o .a 413 . a. .. - 4 nnarmfw,fs.n.n,n.mu,wsmn,v'w, *'.'4flW4V4fl404.4Sfl 4
a.. a a *  o * .44
4.5 ,c 'C a         4   OOOOOOOOOOOoOaOOOOOoOoOeOaOoOcOoOaOo 4
-   * =  4.4  4 4  a  4
a. .4,    0  - 0  4
a.   *4       C4J  4
.0 .0,-   =  aS
C-.  4  4.4   4  =  4  -    4
4.244-4.44          4                                                                       4
Z                          -.  a                      a  a
4.0.       a  o 4.0....0
44      -  0 4r0b4.4                   -        0                 -        0        0'
44- 4    Sea 4  .4.40.4                        4,                         44        -
0*4.4.    --. 4                                                                        4 4
o   . 0   .  .4  a  4                                                                   4
= 4  4    * Ca 4                                                                        4
044...    1345I 4
5,04       C    4                                                                       4
4.24         4
4-.          4                                                                       4
.4 *   - a  .      ..0e. foaflnaa    ,inflrmaflfIflac.4..flaflviu4a.n 6   4
S. * *.4 4 .4S0U,00'
4 .4*.4 4 00.4,..4.4
-.24    a   4
'C.    S-c.                                                                          4
Z4     U  04
-4     - 54                                                                         4
4-4    4J44                                                                        4
Z.    a    *
.4.    .4,
.4  4     a.    O.4S.fl                           S,cmfl4aS,fl.fl4flV' 4
U  4      4 re-.-.- 4 a  a aO a aoa - a a a a  aS 000000000000 a 4
Wa  4                                                                        4
*               464254
'0              .4.4.  3                                                                      4
C               451  4
=0               -   4                                                                        4
4.0              13                                                                           4
ow                    4
- a                  4        eC. .24-  4.-4.-4-4- e. 4-  .-4-4-.-4-4.4-P4-.-4..-4..-f-.-4r.4'-r. 4
- .4           .4 W 4   C 0 0.-n 000000000000000000 0 0 0 0 0 0 4
a                 0  4        ...144,b2,  &4'S404 4,404.4  04fl 442' bbflS'flW4WtflSit'4  I
SC a-- *
=               aa..4 4
ma              S  044
as              a -  4-                                                                       4
a-              Ca   4                                                                        4
a.              .4,
CC
--                 .44 04.4,OV4C4fl00C0OO00000O00O0000000O00O0000 4
a.              - ii .tS..4-rOcOPO0O5.O0O0O.000004
*4  4 e4.40.40eaaaa0a0aa0aaa0ae00aaa00a00a00 4
W.flflflflcflW'flflflSbMS
42              -    4-  04   4                                                               4
134                4.44                                                                       4
4.2 4
4                                                                                          4
4- 4 4.. 4.ob. 4
C               - 444 .eO.oaObflOa.C.P0.o.OCeCoC00004
=4   a 4aoocoooeooacoaOoo 4
=4  * 4.4444'44'4.*4
4.4  4                                                                                        4
4-4                                                                                           4
C'                                                                                            4



ALTERNATIVE D (assumes higher O0ll cosl
-......----  tio. 1s5l onwawdsa                                                     REPUBLIt Of LiltRIA
MONROVIA VATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CR 559t
....    .. .... _..  _ -- - -- - - _ -... _ -_-_ _ -_ -
INTERNAL RATC or RETURN IIRRI CALCULATION BY PROJECT COMPLCTION TIMB
I 976-pt I ec)
YVat        Water   Incremental        Syat..    Incresontal   Inveletant          Unit ON  OK Coete  Total Costs            Avetgoe        leneltte  hktetteau
Produc  Watle Prod    Cficloeney watr sales              Costs           Costs                                       Tariff
(a gal       ( au gal  I        3          (a gal  I   (Us$  0001    Cuit gAll  tUSI  0001  CUSl  '0003    [ItI.gal    lUst '0003   CUSS '0003
1976          N A                                                         576                                         576                                        -576
1979          4054                                                       2141                                        2141                                       -2141
1910          4293                                                       3561                                        3661                                       -3561
1t61          4379             Id             10             43          4591           0.54             46          4637           1.67             72         -4566
tt19          4453            160             10             s0          3127           0.54             56          3213           1.45            134         -3079
1953          4900            (07             50            304           452           0.54            321           510           I it            393          -411
1984          1145            612             52            443                         0 90            767           767           1.29            572          -195
1985          5402           1109             55            610                         0 90            996           995           1.29            757          -211
1916          5672           1379             10            100            155          0 90           1241          1426           1 2t           1032          -394
1ts?          5840           1547             62            919                         0.90           1392          1392           1.39           1137          -15
1985          1540           1547             66           1021                         0 90           1192          1392           1.29           1317           -75
"969          1540           1147             70           1053                         0.90           1392          1392           1.29           1397              S
1990          5540           1547             70           1063                         0.90           1392          1392           1.39           1397              5
1991          5840           1547             70           1053           1i5           0 90           1391          157I           1.39           139?          -150
1992          5840           1547             70           1083                         0.90           1392          1392           1.29           1397              5
1993          5640           1547             70          1083                          0.90           1392          1392           1 2t           1397              5
1994          1540           1547             70          1083                          0.90           13932         1392           1.2t           1397              5
199s          5540           1547             70          1013                          0.90           1392          1392           1.29           1397              S
1996          5840           1547             70          1053           2491           0.90           1392          3590           1.29           1397         -2493
1997          1540           1547             70          1013                          0.90          13392          1392           1.39           1397              5
1998          5540           1547             70          1013                          0 90           1392          1392           1.39           1397              5
1999          5540           1547             70          1083                          0.90           1392          1391           1.29           1397              5
2000           1640          1547             70           1053                         0.90           1392          1392           1.29           139?              5
2001          5540           1547             70           1053           1i5           0.90           1392          1577           1.29           1397          -150
2002          5840           1147             70           1051                         0.90           1392          1391           1.39           1397              5
2003          1540           1547             70          1063                          0.90           :392          t392           1.39           1397              5
2004          5540           1347             70           1053                         0.90           1392          1391           1.29           1397              S
2005           5840          1147             10           1053                         0.90           13932         1392           1.29           1397              5
2006          5540           154?             70           1083            155          0 90           1392          157           1.39           1397          -160
2007          5540           1547             70           1053                         0.90           1339          1393           1.3,           1397              5
3006          5540           1547             70          1063                          0 90           1392          1392           1.39           1397              5
2009          5840           1547             70           1063                         0.90           1391          1392           1.29           1397              5
2010          5640           1547             70           1013                         0 90           1392          1392           1.29           1317              5
2031          1540           1547             70           1053          2495           0.90           1392          3190           1.29           1337         -2493
2012          1340           1547             70           1083                         0.90           1392          1392           1.29           1397              5
2013           1540          1547             70           1053                         0.90           1392          1392           1.29           1397              5
2014          5840           1547             70           1063                         0 t0           1332          1392           .12t           13?7              5
201          1540           1547             70           1053                         0.90           1391          1393           1.39           1397              5
2016          5140           1547             l0           1063         -1351           0.90           1392             41          1.29           1397          1356
INTERNAL RATE Of RETURN            -14.46%



ALTERNATIVE K (combine% awssuptions undet
..----.---......  alternatle,.   C and 0)                                             RCEUILIC Or LIBERIA
MONROVIA WATCR SUPPLY PROJECT (CR8657)
INTERNAL RATE Of RETURN (tRRI CALCULATION BY PROJECT COMPLETION TIMC
. __.................... .... .......___........._____.__........................... ____......._.
(1978-ptices)
Year        Water   Incremental         Syates    Incremental   Investment           Unit OlM  051M Costs  Total Costt            Average        Benefits    Netstream
Produc  Water Prod    EfCicioncy UateL Stie               Cos t  Ctcas                                                  Tariff
In gal I   Ca gal I   t %)                 Co.gal)   (USS  '0O1    !it gall tUSC   OO01   (USS  '0001    iSIt.gal   CUSS 'u1    CU  tus  '0003
............ ......................... .__.......___. ........... ___  _ _ __........ ................____._.______________.___............................... ...........................................__________
1976          NA.                                                           57l                                          176                                        -374
1979          4054                                                         2141                                         2141                                       -2141
1 t0          4293                                                         3541                                         3141                                       -3641
1961          4370              ad             75             65           4591           0. 5 4           46           4437           1.98            128         -41s0
1t9l          4453             lie             75            120           3127           0.54             as           3213           191             231         -2974
it63          4900             407             75            455            462          0 54            3Jl              1,0         1.1              t01 OI
1964         S1145             62              74            648                         0.90             747            747         12.9            1ll2            515
1l81          5402            1109             71            05S                         0.90             9S9            998           1.98          1702             704
1984          5472            1379             79           1089           1$           0.90            1241          1432            1.96          217?             731
1987          5640            1147             1I           1253                          0.90           1393           1393           1.91          3451           1059
1986          5640            154i             83           1204                         0.90            1392          139S           1S.9           2542           1150
1969          $540            1547             e5           1315                         0.90            1392           1392           1 98          2604           1211
t190          5&80            1547             65           1115                         0  0            1392           1392           1.9S          204           1t1ll
1991          5640            15q7             85           1315            165          0.90            1391           1577         12.9            2404           10to
192          5640            1547             i5           1315                         0.90            1392           1392          1.9S           2404           1211
1993          5840            154'             85           1315                         0.90            1392           1391          1.96           2404           1211
1994          5640            1547             65           1315                          0.90           1392           1392           1.9S          2404           1211
f995          5640            154,7             5           1315                         0.90            1392          1392            1 98          2404           1211
1996          5640            1547             is           1313          2491           0 90            1392          390            i.98           2404          -1267
1997          5840            1547             6s           1315                         0 90            1392           13932          1 95          204            1211
1998          5840            1547             a5           1315                         0.90            1392           1392          1.96           2404           1211
1999          5640            1547             a5           1315                          0 90           1392           1391           1.91          2404           131O
2000           3640           1547             65           1315                          0.90           l392          1ti2            1,96          2604           1111
2001           5840           2547             65           1315            15           0.90           1392           1577           1 95          2604            1024
2002           5840           1547             85           1315                          0 90           1392           1392           1.96          2404           1211
2003           5640           1547             85           1315                          0. 90          1392           1392           1.9S          2404            1211
2004           5640           1547             65           1313                          0.90           1392           l3i2           1.95           2404           1211
2005           5840           IS47             05           1315                          0.90           t392           1392          1.96 S404                     1211
2001           5840           1547             85           1315            165           0. 90          1392           1577           1.96          2404            1024
2007           5640           1547             as           1315                          0 90           1392           1392          1.96           2404            1211
2006           5840           1547             65           1313                          0.90           1392           1392           1.96          2604           1211
2009           5840           2547             a5           1315                          0 90           1392           2392           1 95           2404           1211
2010          $640            1547             6s           1315                          0.90           1392           1392           1.96          2404             ll11
2011           5840           2347             as           1315           2498           0 90           1392           3690           1.96           2604         -1227
2012          5640            1547             is           1315                          0.90           1329           1392         12.9           l2OQ            12t1
2013           5840           1347             65           1315                          0.90           1392           1392           1.96          2604            1211
2014           5640           1547             a5           13S5                          0 90           1392           1392           1 95           2404           1211
2015           5640           1547             85           1315                          0.90           2392           1392           1 .9          2404            12tI
2016           3640           1547             85           t315         -1351            0.90           1392             41           1 96          2404           2542            (
INTERNAL RATE Of RETURN N.91%



- 48 -                APPENDIX A
ZCZC DIST9075 JWS0804
OEDOD
REP: TCP FCA
JWS0804 JMT336 IN 03/10:24 OUT 03/10:27
ATTN: MR. YUKINORI WATANABE
DIRECTOR
OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT
THE WORLD BANK
RE: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT ON LIBERIA/MONROVIA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CREDIT 859-LBR)
xx
WE HAVE NO AMENDMENTS TO THE FTPAL DRAFT REPORT SUBMITTED
FOR OUR REVIEW STOP BEST REGARDS CMA
FRANCIS F. BROR
MANAGING DIRECTOR
MONROVIA LIBERIA



- 49 -                     APPENDIX B
REPUTBLIC OF LIBERIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
MONtROVIA. IBE3RIA
OFFICE OF TEE COMPTROLrER GENERAL
OF PUBLIC CORPORATIONS
MF/2-6/0117/185                May 1, 1985
Mr. Yukinori Watanabe
Director
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank
IBRD
1818 N Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
Mr. Director:
This is to acknowledgereceipt of the project
completion report on Liberia Monrovia Water Supply
Project (Credit 859-LBR) which was received on March
5, 1985.
We have reviewed the report and our comments
relate to page 34, Annex 5-1 of the Monrovia Water
Supply Project (Cr. 859) on GOL (Covernment of Liberia)
subsidies granted Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation.
Actual subsidies from GOL are as follows:
1978/79          0.425 million
1979/80          2.7   million
1980/81          2.8   million
1981/82          2.7   million
1982/83          1.4   million
Kind regards,
Very tj ly yours,
Emmanu   0. Akinselure
DIRECTOR-GENERAL
BUREAU OF STATE ENTERPRISES
WORLD BANK STAFF NOTE
LWSC and Government records differ on this point. Refer to note 1/ on
page 17.



APPENDIX C
- 50 -
ZCZC DIST 9151 JWS0866
WAPWS NA 1DB
REF: TCP RC
JWS0866 JIX765 IN 3/12:44 OUT 3/12:48
23717 AFDEV CI
THE WORLD BANK
WASHINGTON D.C.
ATTENTION MR. AMIR AL-KEAFAJI
Region Notes
FROM: AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ABIDJAN
SUBJECT: LIBERIA: MONROVIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REFERENCE TO YOUR LETTER OF MARCH 5, 1985 AND TELEX OF APRIL
16, WE HAVE HAD A CHANCE TO REVIEW BOTH THE DRAFT AND THE
FINAL VERSION OF THE ABOVE REPORT. THE REPORT IS WELL PREPARED,
DETAILED AND INFORMATIVE. THE FINDINGS AGREE WITH THOSE OF
OUR MISSION IN OCTOBER 1983. THERE ARE, HOWEVER, TWO
OCCASIONS OF DISAGREEMENT. TWO COMPON!-.' FINANCED BY ADB
ARE NOT MENTIONED IN THE PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND SUBSEQUENT
DISCUSSION: THESE ARE THE STUDY FOR WATER SUPPLY TO CAIEYSBUIG
AND WATER SUPPLY TO BENTOL CITY. THE THIRD COMPONENT, THE    .5,pa2.08b(vi))
DISCHARGE HEADER/MANIFOLD, SEEMS TO HAVE BEEN ABSORBED INTO
THE TREATMENT WORKS COMPONENT.  SECONDLY, THE FIGURE TO THE                    -
PRICE OF CONTRACT I IS GIVEN IN YOUR REPORT AS DOLLARS 2,681,367 P.6,pm=3.02)
COMPARED TO OUR RECORDS OF DOLLARS 2,245,913.32. THE COMPLETED
COST OF THE O.A.U. VILLAGE DISTRIBUTION EXTENSION IS GIVEN
AS DOLLARS 286,000 AGAINST OUR DOLLARS 301,000.  I HOPE YOU  (P.6. Pa3.03)
WILL FIND THESE OBSERVATIONS IN ORDER. REGARDS
DR. R.M. BISHAI
CHIEF OISI 2
AFDEV
NO: 2300     03.05.85      16:57
FROM: AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ABIDJAN



- 51 -       ~APB'uIX D
ZcZC DIST 5202 RCA 2744
OEDOD
RCA2744
248423 WORLDBANK
22.4.85
IBRD,WASHINGTON
TO: MR. YUKINORI WATANABE
DIRECTOR OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT
FROM: BRIAN W HAYWARD
COMMONWEALTH DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
RE: LIBERIA-MONROVIA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT, YR7TX DATED
15 APRIL 1985 ACKNOWLEDGED. HOWEVER YRLET DATED MAICH 3RD
1985 NEVER RECEIVED HERE ALTHOUGH WE HAVE RECEIVED COPY OF
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT.
BRIEFLY ALTHOUGH CDC SYMPATHETIC TO VIEWS OF THE BANK ON
NEED FOR ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR LWSC AND HAVING NOTED SOME
EFFORT ALBEIT SMALL ON PART OF LWSC TO PUT ITS HOUSE IN ORDER
CDC IS UNWILLING TO CONSIDER FURTHER REQUESTS FOR FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE FOR THIS PROJECT UNTIL SUCH TINE AS LWSC MAKES
GREATER EFFORTS TO RESOLVE ITS PROBLEMS.
REGARDS
OTOD 16:08 22.4.85
MSG NO 2406-2204-01



IBRO  I8271(PCR)
-         aUI        /                                                                                     sti      0:>. 'S"
~hIftNA      1MMIU 1
LO.M                     r                                                                                              Coie
-r    #                                                                                                              I. , ...I
_. I                                                           /                      I                  - '                     Ben4>l
.                        _~.'                                                                        I'o-
:  .                                           .'           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I .-
:   )   ,,'tf5-                     .               /                   ,z'                      (-@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~peoa 
^,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a j:f. r
/                                   ---,' ai,r.--   t                                                     -  
-. -                         ..                                                                      I - .-  a-
+a    '' /1 X    ,'
MawbaPoo 5 ~~~~~~~~-                                          -   -0'  '-'';-    I/
Fbi tl At le  Y-.  ;   *    --  ,' *'- -'  * -_- * -  -   -'a.     S                              1
L I 8 E R I A~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-
MONROVIA WATER SUPPtY SYSTsvMi
COMPOENT-4T IMPLEMENTED  ,
,7,~~~            - I                                          -
EXtSTINIC rfELAES                                                          \                                   .                                .
wHITr PLAIIs WATER TRIEATMVI   PLANIT 
MAMB i^S OlT IIOO!TEII STATION                                                   , 
0    DUCOI IIOTSL 2300 tA REDWVIIo 
tl U tT.rP       --nS tr    1   Z. :
MANGROVESA I
-  P-AUVED RODS                                                                               2 tb _3     
-     COMOREN-OADS   II IMNT             '-                                                                                              \.-.                    S '
RAILR"D ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ MIl  A1' Al fS



