CREDIT NUMBER 859 LBR
Development Credit Agreement
(Monrovia Water Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 8, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 859 LBR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
-AGREEMENT, dated January 8, 1979, between REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Liberia Water and
Sewer Corporation with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Liberia Water
and Sewer Corporation the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
(C) the African Development Bank (hereinafter called the
ADB) has agreed to the Borrower's request to assist in financing
the Project in an aggregate amount of two million one hundred
fifty-one thousand (2,151,000) Units of Account as defined in
ADB's Articles of Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth
in the agreements dated January 23, 1978 between the Borrower
and ADB; and
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the Commonwealth
Development Corporation a loan in an amount equivalent to two
million dollars ($2,000,000) to assist in financing Part A of the
Project on terms and conditions set forth in a loan agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Commonwealth Devel-
opment Corporation; and
(E) the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" meant the agreement between the
Association and Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and Liberia Water and Sewer
Corporation pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time;
(c) "Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation" or "LWSC" means
the Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation established by Chapter 88
of the Public Authorities Law and operating under the laws of the
Borrower; and
(d) "LWSC Laws" means the Public Authorities Law and
the Liberia Corporation Law, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January 1
and July 1 commencing  anuary 1, 1989, and ending July 1, 2028,
each installment to ind including the installment payable on
July 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of LWSC is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause LWSC to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take


﻿-4-
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable LWSC to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
LWSC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and LWSC under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association including the following:
(i) an annual rate of interest of 7.50%; and
(ii) repayment in 20 years including 5 years grace
period.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction on the
Borrower's obligations under Section 3.01 above, the Borrower
shall take all necessary measures to strengthen LWSC's financial
position and shall in particular:
(a) pay its water and sewerage bills within two months after
billing and assume responsibility for the payment of, and be
billed for, water consumed at all public standpipes and water
consumed by agencies of the Borrower and public institutions;
(b) provide LWSC with amounts sufficient to cover the annual
operating deficits of its Sewer Division until such time as the
findings and recommendations of the water and sewerage tariff
study required under Section 4.06 of the Project Agreement shall
have been carried out;
(c) make during 1978 an equity contribution of $226,000 to
LWSC as working capital for its Sewer Division;
(d) make such further equity contributions to LWSC as it may
require, within the limits specified in Section 4.09 of the
Project Agreement, to carry out its Sewer Division's investment
program;


﻿(e) make equity contributions to LWSC during 1978 through
1.'2 in amounts sufficient to cover the counterpart fund require-
ments of the investment program of LWSC's Water Division which
cannot be generated from LWSC's revenues;
(f) cover all operating deficits (including depreciation and
interest payment) plus any shortfall resulting from the repayment
of principal on the debt fok all urban water supply systems
outside Monrovia until such time as other arrangements satisfac-
tory to the Association shall have been made with respect to such
coverage; and
(g) subject to Section 5.01 hereof, deposit or cause to be
deposited in advance and on a quarterly basis in LWSC's bank
account the estimated amount, based on quarterly financial fore-
casts prepared by LWSC, of all payments and contributions to be
made under this Section.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall make appointments to
LWSC's Board of Directors consistent with the Public Authorities
Law.
(b) The Borrower shall no later than March 31, 1979 transfer
to LWSC assets and liabilities (not already vested in LWSC) of all
urban water supply systems outside Monrovia.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that LWSC complies with the
limitations on additional investments referred to in Section 4.09
of the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall assist LWSC in enforcing all water
and sewerage connection rules, regulations and by-laws.
(e) The Borrower shall assist LWSC in the carrying out of
the findings and recommendations of the water and sewerage tariff
study required under Section 4.06 of the Project Agreement.
(f) The Borrower shall inform the Association reasonably in
advance prior to making any proposed appointment to the position
of Managing Director of LWSC.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-6-
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of LWSC under the Project Agreement;
(b) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of the Borrower or LWSC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) any of the LWSC Laws shall have been repealed, amended
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations
or financial condition of LWSC or the carrying out of the Project;
(d) LWSC shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been undertaken whereby any
of the property of LWSC shall or may be distributed among its
creditors;
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdic-
tion shall have taken any action for the dissolution or dis-
establishment of LWSC or for the suspension of its operations;
and
(f) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower unde:
this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿-7-
(a) the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (f)
(i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower and LWSC;
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and LWSC; and
(c) the events specified in paragraphs (c), (e) and (f) (i)
(B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, the deposit by the Borrower in LWSC's bank
account of equity contributions and operating subsidies for 1978
and 1979 amounting to $2,000,000.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or op:tnions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by LWSC, and is legally binding upon LWSC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly.
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and LWSC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and LWSC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date April 9, 1979 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Monrovia
Liberia
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                             4221 LI
Monrovia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto,' acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have -caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
By Is/ Francis Dennis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Plant, equipment              5,082,000        100% of foreign
and materials /1                              expenditures or
90% of local
expenditures
for items im-
ported and pro-
cured locally
(2) Civil works /1                  756,000        24%
(3) Consulting                      984,000        100% of foreign
services, tech-                               expenditures
nical assistance
and training
(4) Unallocated                   1,178,000
TOTAL         8,000,000
/1   Other than raw water pipeline, discharge header and distribu-
tions components, under Part A (7) of the Project.
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; provided, howevt -:, that if the currency of the Bor-
rower is also that of another country from the territory of which
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for
such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expendi-
tures"; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   Civil Works
(1) Construction of about 15,000 ft raw water pipeline
(36 in. diameter) from the intake of Mt. Coffee power-
house to Mt. White Plains water treatment plant.
(2) Construction of an 8 million gallons per day extension
to the White Plains water treatment plant including: (i)
construction of sedimentation, filtration and chemical
dosing facilities; (ii) provision of additional 1.5
million gallons treated water storage capacity and a new
discharge header; and (iii) improvement of existing
water treatment facilities and installation of addi-
tional electrical control and alarm facilities.
(3) Construction of about 27,000 ft trunk distribution
main (Freeway main) (16 in. diameter).
(4) Construction of a booster pumping station with a 0.25
million gallons wet well, centrifugal high lift pumps
and associated pipeworks to serve the Mamba high eleva-
tion service area in Monrovia.
(5) Reinforcement, minor extensions and improvements of
Monrovia's primary and secondary water supply distribu-
tion system.
(6) Installation of about 100 public standpipes and associ-
ated distribution piL eworks in the high density slum
areas of Monrovia.
(7) Construction of a distribution system for the Organiza-
tion of African Unity conference complex.
(8) Supply of about 3,000 water meters.
B.   Engineering, Technical Assistance and Training
(1) Design and supervision of construction of Part A above,
utilizing about 35 man-months of engineering services.


﻿- 12 -
(2) A management improvement program including a comprehen-
sive review of LWSC's organizational structure, its
management, staffing and training requirements and
its operating practices, utilizing about 8 man-months of
consulting services.
(3) A water supply sector study for Liberia (not including
Monrovia), utilizing about 10 man-months of consulting
services.
(4) A water demand and distribution study for Greater
Monrovia, utilizing about 18 man-months of consulting
services.
(5) *A block mapping survey to provide a comprehensive set of
records of consumer location and service connections,
utilizing about 54 man-months of consulting services.
(6) A management level technical assistance program for
LWSC, utilizing about 11 man-years' expert services to
be provided by a Project Manager, a Water Supply Opera-
tions Manager, a Distribution Engineer, a Commercial
Director and an Information Systems Manager.
(7) Design and execution of a training program for LWSC's
subprofessional staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


