RESTRICTED
FILE       COPY                           Report No. p-547
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF T HE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
FOR A
HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 18, 1967



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPI1ENT
REPORT AND RECOIIEIIDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO TRINIDAD AID TOBAGO FOR
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$8.6 million to
Trinidad and Tobago to help finance a highway project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In October 1964 the Government of Trinidad and Tobago asked
for assistance in the financing of a highway project. In May 1965 a
Bank mission visited Trinidad and Tobago and further studies were
suggested. These studies were completed by March 1966 and a Bank mission
visited Trinidad and Tobago in April 1966 to make an appraisal.
3.        Formal negotiations for the proposed loan were held in
Washington from December 14 to 20, 1966. The principal representatives
of the Government in these negotiations were Mr. A. N. R. Robinson, then
Minister of Finance, and Sir Ellis Clarke, Ambassador of Trinidad and
Tobago in Washington. The conclusion of the negotiations was deferred
pending clarification of the Governmentts fiscal policy and prospects
in relation to the local financing required for the project. A Bank
mission visited Trinidad and Tobago in March 1967 for the latter
purpose and a separate mission visited in April 1967 to update the
appraisal.
4.        The following is a summary of Bank loans to Trinidad and
Tobago as of April 30, 1967:
Loan    Year           Borrower            Purpose    Amount Undisbursed
(US$ million)
293-TR   1961  Trinidad and Tobago        Power        23.5        4.2
486-TR   1967  Trinidad and Tobago        Agriculture   5.0        5.0
Total (less cancellations)              28.5
of which has been repaid               i.4
Total now outstanding                    27.1
Amount sold:               15.4
of which has been repaid  1.h         14.o
Total now held by Bank                  13.1
Total undisbursed                                   9.2



The generating plant included in the power project was completed well
in advance of the original schedule and has been in operation as a
base load plant for the past two years. The balance in the loan is
expected to be disbursed by December 1967. It is being spent on
supervisory control equipment and transmission and distribution
improvements, which have been delayed principally because.of earlier
shortages in engineering staff. The loan for agricultural develop-
ment in the Crown Lands became effective last month.
5.       The Government has also requested Bank assistance for projects
in education, water supply,and agricultural credit, all of which are
still at an early stage of preparation.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.        Borrower:                        Trinidad and Tobago
Amount:                          The equivalent in various
currencies of US$8.6 million
Purpose:                         To help finance a highwayproject
Amortization:                    In 42 semi-annual installments,
beginning January 15, 1972 and
ending July 15, 1992
Interest Rate:                   6% per annum
Commitraont Charge:              3/8 of 1% per annum
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of Highway Project -
Trinidad and Tobago" (TO-570a) on the proposed project is attached.
8.        In 1965 there were about 4,200 miles of highways on the
island of Trinidad, of which about 2,500 miles were paved roads. Except
for a few main arteries in the north, however, these roads are mostly
winding and narrowi, serving local needs fairly satisfactorily but through
traffic inadequately.
9.        The proposed project consists of the construction of a four-
lane expressway about 17 miles long on a section which is in particularly
urgent need of improvement on the route connecting Port-of-Spain (the
capital) and San Fernando (the second largest city). In addition, to
aid in preparation for future construction, it provides for feasibility
studies both for the improvement of the remaining sections of the route
and for a southward extension, as well as for final engineering after
confirmation of their respective technical and economic justification.



- 3 -
10.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$19.7
million. The proposed Bank loan of US$8.6 million represents the
presently estimated foreign exchange component of consultants' services
after January 1966 and of construction after January 1967, as explained
in the appraisal report. The balance of the project cost would be fin-
anced by the Government. All disbursements from the proposed loan would
be on a percentage basis.
11.       The economic return on the proposed highway construction,
considering the savings in vehicle operating costs alone, is estimated
at about 11 percent and is considered satisfactory. In addition, it
will save transit time, will reduce road accidents and help in the agri-
cultural and industrial development of the areas bordering the highway.
The interim findings of Government consultants, who are presently carry-
ing out a National Transportation Study, confirm that the proposed high-
way construction and the highway sections for which feasibility and
engineering studies are proposed under the loan are of high priority.
12.       The Highways Division of the Ministry of Works is responsible
for the planning, design, construction and maintenance of highways
under the jurisdiction of the Government. The Division functions satis-
factorily and highway maintenance is adequate. The Division was
assisted by foreign consultants in the preparation of the proposed
project and is utilizing foreign consultants acceptable to the Bank,
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, for the execution of
the proposed project.
13.       Construction contracts will be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding. Final engineering for the proposed
construction has already been completed and bidding documents are in
their final stage of preparation. Most of the land required for the
proposed highway is already Government-owned and the acquisition of
the right-of-way is not expected to present any major problems.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
14.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Trinidad and
Tobago and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Loan Agreement con-
forms substantially to the pattern of loan agreements used for projects
of this kind.



PART V - THE ECONOCTY
15.       A summary of recent economic developments in Trinidad and
Tobago is given in my report (P -528) on a proposed loan for the
CrowJn lands project which was distributed to the Executive Directors
on February 27, 1967. I reported at that time that the Government
was postponing the initiation of a nunber of diversification projects
in order to keep public investment in 1967 within the limits of the
available financial resources. Since that date the Prime Minister
has taken over the finance portfolio and thus assumed direct respon-
sibility for finance, planning and development. On making this change,
the Prime Ilinister announced that the Government's investment program
for 1967 and 1968 would be stepped up to meet rising unemployment
originating in substantial lay-offs in the petroleum industry and
certain public enterprises. The supplemental program for 1967 would
raise public investment to TT$71 million, as against the TT$60 million
previously proposed. Priority will be given to development of the
tourist industry through public financial participation, not only to
provide additional employment, but also to generate additional foreign
exchange earnings. The supplementary program also provides for finan-
cial assistance to six industrial projects. The Government plans to
obtain financing for this program from the sale abroad of certain
government assets.  At the same time, policies for raising the level
of public savings, particularly through improvements in the financial
position of State enterprises, are being considerably intensified.
For example, significant reductions are being made in the payrolls of
the water and sewerage and transport authorities and miscellaneous
expenditures on public works are being cut back.
16.       The external debt of Trinidad and Tobago repayable in foreign
exchange in the middle of 1966 totalled US$74 million.  Since then,
the only major external loan contracted was the US$5 million Bank loan
for the Crown Lands project. The annual service payments on the out-
standing external debt, plus a US$6 million private placement now
being negotiated, average about US$11.5 million until 1971. These
service payments at their peak represent less than 8 percent of
Trinidad and Tobago's present foreign exchange earnings. Trinidad
and Tobago can therefore prudently add to her present external indebted-
ness and can be considered creditworthy for the proposed loan.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
17.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



PART VII - RECOIINEIZDATION
18.       I recommend that the Executive Directors of the Bank adopt
the following resolution:
RESOLUTION NO._
Approval of Loan to Trinidad and Tobago
in an amount equivalent to U.S.$8,600,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Trinidad and Tobago in
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million six
hundred thousand United States dollars (U.S.$8,600,000), to mature on
and prior to July 15, 1992, to bear interest at the rate of six per-
cent (6%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions
as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions
set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Highway Project) between
Trinidad and Tobago and the Bank, which has been presented to this
meeting.
Attaclhment                                     George D. Woods
President
by J. Burke Knapp
liay 18, 1967.



