Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20287 IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED INTERIM TRUST FUND CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 33.6 Million (US$45 Million Equivalent)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR ECONOMIC REFORM PROJECT
April 4, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 3, 2000)
Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs.)
Rs. 1= US$ 0.0229
US$ 1 = Rs. 43.58
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 through March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOT                              -      Build Operate Transfer
C&AG                             -      Comptroller and Auditor General
CAS                              -      Country Assistance Strategy
CDS                              -      City Development Strategy
DEA                              -      Department of Economic Affairs
DSM                              -      Demand-Side Management
GDP                              -      Gross Domestic Product
GOI                              -      Government of India
GSDP                             -      Gross State Domestic Product
HSMI                             -      Human Settlement Management Institute
HUDCO                            -      Housing and Urban Development Corporation
ICB                              -      International Competitive Bidding-
IDA                              -      International Development Association
IDF                              -      Institutional Development Fund
KEB                              -      Karnataka Electricity Board
KPTCL                            -      Karnataka Power Transmission Company Limited
LACI                             -      Loan Administration Change Initiative
MOF                              -      Ministry of Finance
MTEF                             -      Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NCB                              -      National Competitive Bidding
NIUA                             -      National Institute of Urban Affairs
NPV                              -      Net Present Value
OED                              -      Operations Evaluation Department
PE                               -      Public Enterprise
PMD                              -      Project Monitoring Division
PMRs                             -      Project Monitoring Reports
PMU                              -      Project Management Unit
PPI                              -      Private Participation in Infrastructure
PSMS                             -      Poverty and Social Monitoring System
RBI                              -      Reserve Bank of India
SIP                              -      Subproject Implementation Plan
TA                               -      Technical Assistance
TORs                             -      Terms of References
UP                               -      Uttar Pradesh
UPID                             -      Uttar Pradesh Irrigation Department
VAT                              -      Value Added Tax
VRS                              -      Voluntary Retirement Scheme
Vice President:   Mieko Nishimuzu
Country Manager/Director:   Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager/Director:   Roberto N. Zagha
Team Leader   Edgardo Favaro
Task Leaders:   Clive Harfis, Lili Liu



TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR ECONOMIC REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       8
3. Benefits and target population                                                      8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           14
2. Financial                                                                          15
3. Technical                                                                          15
4. Institutional                                                                      15
5. Environment                                                                        16
6. Social                                                                             17
7. Safeguard Policy                                                                   18
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     18
2. Critical risks                                                                     18
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     19



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           19
2. Other                                                                             20
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         20
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        20
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         21
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            25
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        33
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          34
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   41
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      45
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    49
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  50
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 51
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           55
MAP(S)
N/A



INDIA
Technical Assistance for Economic Reforn Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASFP
Date: April 4, 2000                               Team Leader: Clive G. Harris
Country Manager/Director: Edwin Lim               Sector Manager/Director: Roberto Zagha
Project ID: P059501                               Sector(s): ME - Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s): PUBLIC SECTOR; PRIVATE SECTOR
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
Ii Loan       [M Credit        O Grant         E] Guarantee    O Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): SDR 33.6 million ($45.0 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5                                   Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local         Foreign         Total
Government                                                     10.00           0.00         10.00
IBRD
IDA                                                           30.00           15.00         45.00
Total:                                                        40.00           15.00         55.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Responsible agency: DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS, MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Address: Department of Economic Affairs (DEA), Ministry of Finance (MOF), North Block, New Delhi 1
Contact Person: Mr. V. Bhaskar, Director (Fund-Bank)
Tel: 301 1558                Fax: 301 2477                Email:
Bhaskarv@GiasdlO 1 .Vsnl.Net.In
Estimated disbursements ( Sank FY/US$M):
FY     .         2000    2001    1   2002        200                     20056
Annual     0.0           3.0         9.0 |       9.5         9.5          9.0        5.0
Cumulative     0.0          3.0         12.0        21.5       31.0         40.0        45.0
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 08/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OCS PAD Fom Rev.  2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
By improving access to technical expertise and advisory services, the project will assist reform-minded
governments (central, state, and municipal) to design, and possibly implement, selected reforns. Critically
important among the reforms to be supported by the proposed operation are those enabling the public
sector to retrench from areas where the private sector is more effective, and to expand its involvement and
resources in priority social sector spending and poverty alleviation, in particular in health and education.
Facilitating private sector growth would also be beneficial to the poor by expanding employment
opporunities.
The project is designed as a "process" operation, where funds are allocated to a subproject after it has been
prepared, appraised, and approved. Within the common objective of the project as stated above, each
subproject will have its own development objectives. As an example, the already appraised subproject
prepared by the Government of Uttar Pradesh (UP) aims at providing the necessary technical expertise to
enable implementation of a medium-term fiscal and public sector restructuring program for the state. In
addition, this subproject will include a component to monitor poverty trends in the state. A subproject
being prepared by the Government of Karnataka, presently under appraisal, will make available expert
advice to lay the grounds for the future privatization of the power utility - and hence relax a major
constraint to growth and employment, enabling the state to redirect resources to priority pro-poor social
spending.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
It is expected that, at a minimum, there will be implementation of reforms in 20 percent of subprojects
within one year of the project completion date. For outcomes, progress under the project will be measured
at an aggregate level by: (1) the number of signed Participation Agreements; (2) utilization of funds; and
(3) production of consultant reports and delivery of capacity-building programs.
Given the process nature of the project, key performance indicators will be defined with respect to each
subproject and listed in that subproject's Implementation Plan to allow the Bank, the Borrower, and the
implementing agency to monitor progress and performance of individual activities funded under the project.
For the proposals developed by the Government of UP, for example, the indicators encompass the
production of reports and recommendations on improvements in financial accountability and expenditure
management, the divestment and closure of public enterprises, the reform of the UP Irrigation Department,
civil service renewal, increases in the tax revenue base at the state and municipal level, and the development
of a database to enable the Government to track poverty trends in the state. These are described in more
detail in Annex 1.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: CAS (Report No. 17241-IN)- January 15, 1998 and CAS Progress Report (Report
No. R99-12, IDA/R99-10)- February 18, 1999              Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/18/99
The Bank's country assistance strategy seeks to support reforms, in particular in states which are
embarking upon comprehensive restructuring programs aimed at implementing fiscal, pricing and
regulatory reforms that will put their finances on a sustainable course and establish a better enviromnent
for private investment. This proposed project would complement the Bank's efforts through operations in
-2 -



the power sector, fiscal and public sector reforms, education, health, and agriculture at the state level by
assisting reform-minded government agencies to formulate, design, and possibly implement, selected
reforms. Reforming states are expected to be the main beneficiaries of the project, as is evidenced by the
present pipeline of applications for funding under this proposed credit. However, central agencies engaged
in similar reforms in similar areas will also be able to access the credit, as will municipalities through their
state government.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Reforms initiated by the Government of India (GOI) since 1991 have helped put the Indian economy on a
higher growth path. The reform program has led to unprecedented, private sector-led growth. India
currently faces the challenge of deepening the reform program and addressing unresolved problems at all
three levels of government, central, state, and municipal. These include public finances which are currently
on an unsustainable path, an increasing proportion of expenditures being devoted to interest payments and
to subsidies, in particular for infrastructure services, and increasing infrastructure bottlenecks. Some of
the poorer states, such as Uttar Pradesh and Orissa, are becoming increasingly indebted, and many states,
including some of the ones with better track records, are on unsustainable paths. Growing
interest-to-revenue ratios and increasing wage expenditures have been increasingly crowding out
developmental expenditure and non-wage maintenance expenditures. States are responsible for over 90 per
cent of the economic infrastructure and social service (health and education) spending in India, and the
fiscal pressures of the 1 990s has led to a reduction in the share of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP)
devoted to these expenditures over this period. This in tam has had detrimental impacts on poverty
reduction and pro-growth strategies. State governments are beginning to address these issues through
broad-ranging reform programs. The reform agenda also includes decentralization to local bodies in line
with the 74th amendment to the Constitution. Success in implementing these reforms is critical to enable
the public sector to reorient its activities towards infrastructure and the social sectors, critical to increasing
opportunities and social services to the poor.
Reducing high subsidies, often inequitable in their distributional impacts, is an essential element of state
reform programs. Power subsidies are particularly important in that regard. As an example of their impact,
implicit and explicit subsidies to farmers receiving power and irrigation services were estimated to be
around 5% of GSDP in Andhra Pradesh in 1997. One of the most important cross-cutting reforms that
could be undertaken in India at present would be to raise current low collection rates by reducing
non-technical losses and by increasing prices to cost recovery levels. Cutting subsidies would cut fiscal
deficits, reducing the risk of macroeconomic instability, and free up funds for social infrastructure to help
the poor and speed growth.
In addition to their fiscal impact, the poor quality and coverage of India's infrastructure reduces growth and
contributes to health problems that affect the poor the most. When they can afford it, businesses provide
their own utility services, in the form of captive power and water facilities, to offset the poor quality of
publicly provided services. This duplication of investment increases the capital intensity of India's growth,
and gives rise to smaller networks which are less cost effective than what an efficient integrated network
could provide. In the water sector, although official statistics indicate a reasonably high level of service
coverage (85 percent of people living in urban have access to safe water), water availability is very low in
practice. Of 27 Asian cities with populations over 1 million, India's four largest cities are ranked among the
five worst cities in terns of hours of availability of water per day. Between 25 percent and 50 percent of
water supplied is lost due to leaks. Low water pressure and intermittent supplies allow back-syphonage and
contamination. The lack of water availability disproportionately affects the urban poor. As an example,
although the official per capita water supply is about 200 liters a day in Delhi, about 30 percent of the
-3 -



city's 9 million people have access to less than 25 liters a day. About 42 percent of the population is
reported to have access to basic sanitation services, but only 15 percent of the households in low-income
slum and squatter settlements have toilets. A major expansion in the availability of safe water would
improve health among the poor. In addition, improved infrastructure will be needed to allow the poorer
states in the hinterland, such as Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Bihar, to benefit from liberalization.
The states of Orissa and Andhra Pradesh have been engaged in reform efforts for a number of years.
Orissa is the leader in Indian in efforts to reform public enterprises, and in 1999 successfully privatized the
power distribution business in the state. A number of other states in India are now attempting to
restructure and privatize their power systems. Andhra Pradesh has emerged as one of the leading reform
states in India, with its policies to reduce subsidies and improve governance, transparency and
accountability within the civil service. The Bank has recently started discussions with the Government of
Karnataka on a broad-ranging program encompassing reform of the power sector and other public
enterprises, and in public sector management. In Uttar Pradesh, which is one of India's poorest states, the
Government has embarked upon a medium-term program to improve the efficiency of the public sector, and
to restore fiscal balance to the state. This encompasses a major program of public enterprise reform, of
which reform of the power sector is a key component, as well as reform of the civil service in the state,
improvements in financial accountability and the management of expenditure, and improvements in the
mobilization of tax revenues at the state level. In addition, the state is embarking upon a program of
reform in the urban sector, encompassing efforts to improve resource mobilization and address financial
and service delivery aspects at the municipal level. Finally, the Government of UP will also establish a
database to allow it to track changes in poverty levels in the state, an innovative effort at the state level in
India and crucial to understanding how the proposed reforms will affect the poor.
Decentralization of political power and responsibilities and devolution of fiscal authority to local bodies, as
a result of the passage of the 74th constitutional amendment in 1993, provides both challenges and
opportunities in tackling these reforms. While many state governments are seeking to comply with this
mandate, most local bodies currently lack institutional capacity in technical, managerial, administrative and
fiscal terms to assume the increased responsibilities envisaged for them under this amendment. Many of
the key issues affecting the delivery of essential services (such as water and sanitation) and in encouraging
growth and generating employment in urban areas, will increasingly be the responsibility of urban local
bodies. One over-riding issue is the quality of administration at the municipal level, which will be
important for efficient resource mobilization and service provision.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The reform agenda is a broad one in India, in particular at the state government level where administration
suffers from inadequate accountability and transparency, and there is inadequate resource mobilization and
inefficient targeting and usage of expenditure. These all need to be tackled if there are to be sustained
improvements in public sector performance and a permanent shift in expenditures towards genuinely
developmental areas which are key to poverty reduction. This process will require reductions in the
subsidies to sectors such as power and irrigation, and increases in public infrastructure and human
development expenditures. Enhancing the role of the private sector in providing essential services, for
example in water, or in taking over power distribution systems, will require the development of effective
regulatory mechanisms and legal frameworks to reduce political discretion over tariff-setting and other key
decisions in the sectors.
To do this, the proposed operation would support the design and possibly implementation of reforms which
would fall under one or more of the following broad areas: (1) improving the efficiency and transparency of
- 4 -



the national, state and local government, e.g., delivery of core government services, poverty monitoring,
and civil service reform; (2) reorienting the role of the public sector within the context of market-oriented
reforms, e.g., public enterprise reform and privatization; (3) improving the efficiency of the fiscal system;
and (4) enhancing the role of the private sector in providing essential public services (e.g., power, water
supply and sanitation), which would include in particular the development of the required legal and
regulatory frameworks. Funds from the credit would also be used for the management of this project.
The proposed credit would not be limited per se to focus states where the Bank has an ongoing dialogue,
although it is expected it would be used extensively in states where there is such a dialogue. However, the
proposed operation would also provide a mechanism for helping to engage non-reforming states in a
dialogue and provide them with the means to formulate their own reform agenda. In addition it provides an
opportunity to engage central government entities involved in reforms.
The design and implementation of reformns requires access to technical expertise that many government
agencies presently do not have. As an example, given the magnitude and range of the fiscal and governance
reformns being initiated and contemplated in UP, there is a clear need for technical assistance to assist with
implementation of reform. The Government has already submitted a number of proposals to this project in
the area of fiscal and governance reform, covering reforms in the civil service, expenditure and tax
management, audit, public enterprise and the urban sector, as well as monitoring poverty trends within the
state. Given the broad-ranging set of issues in refonns in India, the proposed project will provide a
mechanism to allow the center, states, and municipalities to access high quality technical advice to assist in
the design, and possibly implementation, of selected refornns. The proposed project would also fund, where
necessary, training and capacity-building to assist in this process.
The need for a second wave of reforms to attain fiscal sustainability, promote private sector-led growth,
and reduce poverty is widely agreed upon in India, being, for example in the platforns of the two main
political parties. This proposed operation would allow the Bank to have a catalytic role in the design of
reforms, and in their dissemination across state governments and municipalities.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project is designed as a "process" technical assistance (TA) operation, where funds are allocated to a
subproject after it has been prepared, appraised, and approved. It is expected that all three levels of
government (central, state, and also municipal via state governments on their behalf) will access funds,
although reforming states are expected to be the main beneficiaries of the project, as is evidenced by the
present pipeline of applications for funding.
Subprojects which are assessed as being eligible under the criteria listed in B3 above would be appraised,
approved, and then funded on a "first-come, first-served" basis. Under-utilized funds of a subproject,
vis-A-vis their targeted utilization, would be returned to the facility. The MOF will on-lend the funds to
states or to municipalities, which will be represented by their respective states, at the usual on-lending
terms (70 percent loan, 30 percent grant for all major states).
The total credit is US$45 million equivalent. A total of US$150,000 can be used for the preparation of
subprojects (see below). At present, two subprojects amounting to about 15 percent of this amount
have been appraised. The proposals of seven subprojects are under review and could account for an
additional 50-60 percent of the total. The final allocation among all subprojects is expected to be
- 5-



completed at the latest by approximately three years ftom project effectiveness.
*     Subprojects that have been appraised
Two subprojects have been appraised. The first one is from the state of Uttar Pradesh, one of the
poorest states in India with an estimated 41 percent of the population below the poverty line. The
proposed subproject covers a package of technical assistance to help the Government of UP in their
medium-term fiscal and public institution reform program. The requested funding ($5.0 million; total
cost US$5.5 million) would cover the following components (for details see Annex 2): modernization of
the financial management and audit functions; expenditure management and the creation of a
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework; monitoring of poverty levels in the state; tax reform; public
enterprise reform; implementation of urban property tax reform; assessment of urban finances and
institutional arrangements for service delivery and development of city development strategies for two
cities; reform of the Irrigation Department, and a broad program of civil service reform and renewal.
This cluster of proposals is aimed at developing and implementing key measures in the state
government's medium-term fiscal and public sector restructuring program, which is supported by the
UP Fiscal Reform and Public Sector Restructuring Credit/Loan. As explained in Annexes 2 and 4, the
Government of UP's reform program is aimed at reversing the recent deterioration in the state's fiscal
situation, allowing a redirection of expenditures away from subsidies and interest payments to
genuinely developmental expenditures, and in imnproving the transparency and accountability of the
government and its efficiency in delivering core services to the public at large. Although it is expected
that the poor will benefit from the reform program, the package of TA sought includes funding for the
state government to track developments in poverty in the state.
The second subproject is from the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (GOI), for
US$1.95 million support (total project cost $3.1 million) which is aimed at the development of a
program of capacity-building and knowledge management for improving project implementation and
management particularly in the public sector, as well as the private sector. Annex 2 also gives a more
detailed description of this subproject, which is chiefly concerned with training and other
capacity-building measures in this area for public servants. An improvement in project implementation
techniques would lead to more cost efficient project implementation and free resources for additional
developmental expenditures targeting priority social needs.
*      Subproject in an advanced stage of preparation
The Government of Karnataka has initiated a program to reform and privatize the power sector, which, like
in many states in India will be key to stopping the further deterioration in the state's fiscal position. As was
noted in Section B2, subsidies and losses in the power sector are one of the major drains on the fiscal
performance of state governments in India. In Karnataka, power losses amount to an estimated 40 percent
of already limited power supply, severely constraining broad-based growth that is essential for poverty
reduction as well as the ability of the state government to target expenditures on genuinely developmental
requirements. The Government of Kamataka has requested funding under this operation to undertake
studies essential for the implementation of reform and privatization in the sector, including (a) developing
load forecasting, investment and production planning models to analyze options for reconfiguration of the
distribution business and to mitigate environmental impacts; (b) preparation of financial restructuring
plans, asset and liability transfer schemes for the unbundled companies, business plans for the distribution
companies and preparation of financial information required for filing tariff applications with the
Kamataka Electricity Regulatory Commission; (c) a strategy for the privatization of the distribution
business in Kamataka, including the development of bidding documents; (d) assistance in the
-6 -



corporatization of the sector, and the preparation of key background documents such as the grid code,
distribution code, power purchase agreements, etc; (e) institutional strengthening for the state transmission
company; and (f) social and communication aspects of the power sector reform program. The total cost of
this would be around US$10 million.
*      Subprojects whose proposals are under review
A number of state governments and a central government agency have submitted proposals requesting
funding. These proposals which are presently under review. They are:
(a)    a proposal from the Government of Orissa for the implementation of public enterprise reform and
establishment and support of a reform cell within the Government;
(b)    a proposal from the Government of Madhya Pradesh concerning municipal sector reform, civil
service reform, and strengthening capacities in project identification and management;
(c)    a proposal from the Government of Rajasthan for assistance in the development of institutional
mechanisms for efficient delivery of urban and other essential public services, including through private
provision of these services;
(d)    a proposal from the Government of Himachal Pradesh for assistance in strengthening capacities for
environmental management;
(e)    a proposal from the Ministry of Urban Development, GOI for support in the areas of development
of manuals for reforms in municipalities, manuals for municipal accounting systems and training programs
for municipal managers, as well as the documentation of best practice in financing and managing urban
infrastructure; and
(f)    a proposal from the Government of Gujarat to support private provision of essential infrastructure
services, in particular the institutional, legal and regulatory framnework. Gujarat has been one of India's
leaders attempting to attract private funds and management expertise into the infrastructure sectors, and
has had some success to date in the power generation, ports and roads sectors. Building on this success,
the Government is now looking to broaden these activities to include the urban sector, encompassing
activities in water and solid waste areas which are key for public health.
In addition to those listed above, it is expected that further subprojects would be identified, appraised and
implementing following effectiveness.
The following table gives cost estimates of the subprojects that have been already been appraised:
Indicative             Bank-  .     of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
.____________   (iLs$M)   Total         (US$M)  financing
Government of Uttar Pradesh                             5.50       10.0      5.00       11.1
Ministry of Statistics and Programme                    3.10        5.6       1.95       4.3
Inplementation, GOI
Unallocated                                            46.40       84.4     38.05       84.6
Total Project Costs                    55.00      100.0     45.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    55.00      100.0      45.00     100.0
-7 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
In line with the project's objective of assisting the public sector in reorienting expenditures towards
genuinely developmental areas (e.g., primary health and education) and to encourage private sector-led
growth, the credit would be open to subprojects which are seeking to lead to at least one of the
following policy and institutional reforms: (1) improving the efficiency and transparency of the
national, state and local government, e.g., poverty monitoring, delivery of core government services,
and civil service reform; (2) reorienting the role of the public sector within the context of
market-oriented reforms, e.g., public enterprise reform and privatization; (3) improving the efficiency
of the fiscal system; and (4) enhancing the role of the private sector in providing essential public
services (e.g., power, water supply and sanitation), which would include in particular the development
of the required legal and regulatory frameworks. These are all viewed as essential in assisting
government efforts in poverty reduction and in the promotion of private sector-led growth.
Expected reforms at the level of state governments include at least one of the following- (a)
implementation of tax reform (including training and financing of improvements in tax administration);
(b) expenditure management and improvements in financial accountability; (c) civil service reform; and
(d) strengthening of regulatory agencies and the regulatory anid contractual framework to support
private sector involvement, where this will facilitate investments with a strong impact on poverty.
At the central level, it is expected that the proposed operation will support the development of
regulatory agencies and assist central ministries in their reform agendas. Municipal governments are
expected to use the project resources for advisory services in city planning, budgeting, expenditure
control, taxation, (in particular, computerization of property registries), and development of an
appropriate regulatory framework for private sector involvement in the provision and management of
municipal services.
The two subprojects which have been appraised so far have as their policy objectives the design, and in
some cases implementation, of reforms in civil service, taxation, and privatization, in the case of the
Government of UP, and an improvement in the efficiency of the public sector, in the case of the
Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, GOI. Policy letters supporting the program of
work requested under their respective Subproject Implementation Plans indicate the overall policy goals
which the technical assistance funds are being accessed to meet. The presentation of a policy letter
accompanying the Subproject Implementation Plan (SIP) will be a requirement of all subprojects (see
Section C4 below). The SIP in turn will propose monitoring indicators to assess outcomes, so that
during and following implementation there is a link to the overall policy goals.
Additional requests which are being reviewed at present also fall within the identified criteria in terms
of: (a) an improvement in the efficiency of the public sector -- proposals from the Ministry of Urban
Development, and the Governments of Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh; (b) a reorientation of
the role of the government within the context of market-oriented reforms -- the Governments of Orissa
and Rajasthan; and (c) private provision of essential public services, in particular the development of
institutional, legal and regulatory frameworks -- the Governments of Gujarat and Karnataka.
3. Benefits and target population:
The immediate recipients of project funds will be government agencies (central, state and municipal)
that will be able to better design, and possibly implement, selected reform measures. The central focus
of these reforms are to assist the government in reorienting expenditures and encouraging private
sector-led growth. It is expected that the poor would benefit from the implementation of these reforms.
-8 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The "process" structure of this proposed TA operation requires the careful design of implementation
arrangements that will provide the required levels of oversight but not be overly cumbersome and in
particular: (a) clearly define responsibilities for subproject preparation, appraisal and supervision; (b)
track expenditures and implementation performance under each subproject to identify any
under-utilization of funds allocated, or any requirements for additional allocation of funds based upon
new estimates of the cost of subprojects; and (c) ensure financial reporting consistent with Bank norms.
*   Subproject Identification, Preparation and Appraisal
State governments that would like to access the credit would initially send a concept note to the relevant
GoI line ministry describing the proposed activities. After clearance, the Gol line ministry would then
send the proposal to DEA, who would then forward it to the Bank for formal consideration. A
municipal government would first send a proposal to the state government who would then forward it to
the Gol line ministry. As far as the central government ministry is concerned, the relevant GoI ministry
would submit a proposal to DEA, either for activities it will undertake itself or for a dependent agency.
DEA will then forward this to the Bank.
After discussion with the DEA and within the Bank, it was decided that the responsibility for final
appraisal of a subproject would remain with the Bank, with DEA having the final responsibility for
approving a subproject under the credit. In this case, the involvement of the Bank was felt appropriate
because:
(a)    many proposals are likely to come from states where the Bank is engaged in a dialogue on policy
reforms, which the proposed TA would support. For example, the subproject proposed by the Government
of UP is to support the overall fiscal and governance reforms that have been initiated by the Government
and has emerged from an intensive dialogue on reforms between the Bank and the Government. The
involvement of the Bank in assisting the Government to develop proposal for technical assistance can take
advantage of the Bank as a knowledge bank and maximize strategic coordination among various
instruments of Bank assistance to the state; and
(b)   the broad-ranging nature of the reforms makes it difficult to identify any single entity within the
Government which could feasibly perform the appraisal function.
States or central ministries with which the Bank has little engagement can access the facility up to a
maximum aggregate amount of $150,000 total over a three-year period following effectiveness, to get
assistance to define the design, concept, and scope of a proposal, as well as terns of references. After
satisfactory preparation, the Bank will review and appraise the proposal. The proposed project will be
an avenue for the Bank to engage non-focus states in discussions on reform, which will include
assistance by the Bank in project preparation.
Appraisal of the subproject will include assessment by the Bank of (a) a policy letter outlining the type
of reforms that the state is considering, so that the program of TA could be placed within this context;
and (b) a SIP to the Project Management Unit (PMU) under the DEA for forwarding to the Bank,
which cover the scope of work, associated terms of reference, implementation arrangements, relevant
procurement and disbursement timetables, and monitoring indicators for usage of and impact of the
activities to be financed under the credit.
-9-



* Accessing Funds under the Proposed Project
Following appraisal of the. subproject, the Association would recommend to DEA whether or not the
subproject could be financed under the proposed credit. To access the credit, a potential participating
entity (state governments and central agencies/ministries) would need to sign a participation agreement
with DEA regarding terms and conditions for the participating entity to access the credit. This
participation agreement would include as an annex finalized policy letter and subproject
implementation plan. For municipal governments, the state government would need to access the credit
on their behalf and would therefore sign the participation agreement and present the policy letter and
SIP.
State governments or central agencies may make a number of applications over time for use of the
facility. Each subproject would require a SIP. The participation agreement would make reference to a
total estimated amount to be allocated to a subproject. Participating entities could make applications
for further proposals which would be made under the same participation agreement, with an
amendment to an attachment detailing the total amount. Access to the funds by a potential
participating entity would be on a first-come first-serve basis, with funds being allocated following the
signing of the participation agreement. However, performance in utilizing existing allocations of funds
would be taken into account when considering fresh subprojects. Fund utilization would be assessed
through the quarterly Project Management Reports and supervision reports.
The Participation Agreement signed between DEA and a participating entity will include provisions relating
to releasing funds back into the facility if a subproject is not being implemented in a timely manner, or if it
is clear that the original scope of the subproject can be undertaken with a reduced level of funding. This
will allow other users to access the funds before the expiry of the project.
*   Project Management and Implementation
DEA at the MOF will be responsible for overall project management, supervision, and quality control,
as well as for assessing that the subproject proposed has obtained the relevant clearances. Each
subproject will have its own implementation arrangements (see below).
The centralized coordination, facilitation, and financial management required will place an extra burden
on the already heavy mandate of DEA. Therefore, to assist DEA in its management of the project, a
PMU will be established, consisting of consultant/s whose combined experience will need to cover
project management, procurement, and financial management. The consultants would be funded under
this proposed credit.
The responsibilities of the PMU, which would physically be located in DEA, are to:
(a)    coordinate with all Participating Entities on all project activities;
(b)    explain to applying entities the procedures and criteria of accessing funds, and provide them with
standard templates of forms and other documents;
(c)    ensure that financial reporting meets Bank standards and provides the requisite information to
Participating Entities for project management. To achieve this the PMU would develop and operate a
simple computerized Project Financial Management System, based in DEA, for the duration of the project;
(d)    provide assistance to Participating Entities to ensure their compliance with project financial
monitoring requirements and that they furnish timely reports to DEA, including ensuring that monthly
project management reports are submitted to DEA and the Bank;
- 10 -



(e)   recommend the release of funds to Participating Entities based on regular progress reports;
(f)    compile the project management reports so that DEA can send quarterly reports to the Bank, which
will include an identification of slow-moving subprojects; as part of this, the PMU would write up a
summary identifying progress, critical issues in subproject implementation and bottlenecks;
(g)   liaise with project auditors to ensure that there is timely submission of audit reports; and
(h)    provide assistance to Participating Entities, as directed by DEA, in preparing and evaluating
procurement documents as per the Bank's guidelines, and in assessing the procurement capabilities of
agencies applying to use funds under the credit (see below).
Annex 5 provides further details on the financial reporting aspects of the work of the PMU.
Each subproject would have its own implementation structure, which would include individuals within
the entity who would oversee the technical aspects of the work. The Project Monitoring Consultants in
PMU under DEA would assess whether, for larger subprojects the implementing agency had adequate
procurement and financial management capacity. If this was not evident, entities would have to hire
procurement consultants, and could use funds under the credit to pay for this. The SIP would identify
the implementation arrangements for each subproject. At the state government level, a nodal point
would be identified - which could be the department for extemal aid, existing Project Management
Units (PMUs) which handle Bank projects or the implementing department as appropriate. Once the
state began to access funds from the TA facility, the nodal agencies would be responsible for
disbursement, procurement and financial management issues and would interact with the PMU in DEA
to ensure the required information reaches the Bank.
0 Duration of Project and Reviews
This project will have a five-year life from effectiveness. Annual reviews of fund utilization will commence
no later than April 2001, in order to identify issues and problems. The mid-term review will take place
approximately two years after project effectiveness, in August 2003. It is expected that all subprojects
would be appraised within 3 years of effectiveness, allowing an additional 2 years for their implementation.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
*     Flexible Multi-Sector, Multi-State Design vs. Narrow Single-sector/Single-State Focus
The possibility of using single-sector or single-state loans/credits was considered and rejected for the
following two reasons. First, given the broad nature of reform challenges facing the public sector, in
particular state governments, a single sector operation was considered to be too narrow and constrictive.
Second, single state TAs would also have drawbacks. The pace of reform may either slow or quicken in a
given state, leaving too much or too little funds in the operation. It would also be difficult to accommodate
requests from states as they arise.
The proposed structure will provide the flexibility in meeting a broad range of TA needs, could be linked
with Bank work in states where bilateral donors were not providing substantial assistance, and could be
used as a way of examining reforn options and beginning a serious dialogue on implementation of reforms
with state governments when it is too early to discuss investment loan support.
*     Several layers of Government vs. Single layer of Government
- tt -



As presently constituted, the credit would support three layers of Government: central, state and
municipal. Consideration was given to eliminating one or more of these layers, but it was felt that at this
stage the reform agenda is relatively broad, and provided that a sufficient clear implementation framework
is developed, the inclusion of the three different layers of government should not be greatly problematic and
should also allow an appropriate level of flexibility.
*      Restrict Project to Reform-Minded States vs. Use as a Mechanism to Engage Previously
Non-Reforming States
The project design as such will not automatically restrict funding to a few selected states. However, it is
expected that substantial TA demands will be forthcoming from the states that are embarking upon
broad-based reform programs and that the demand-driven nature of the facility will itself lead to a focus on
reforming states. However, the design leaves flexibility to engage non-reforming states and it is expected
that some funds will be used by states where the Bank presently does not have a dialogue on reform.
The Proposed Facility vs. diverse instruments such as Institutional Development Fund (IDFs)
and Trust Funds
IDFs and trust funds could be too small to address some requests, for example the subprojects proposed by
the Governments of UP and Kamataka. In addition, managing numerous small IDFs and trust funds would
add extra administrative burdens to the Bank.
The proposed "process" structure will provide the flexibility to meet a broad range of TA needs as they
arise. Such flexibility is important since there is no one-size-fits-all reforn formula. Activities to be
supported by the project could be linked with Bank work in states where bilateral donors are not providing
substantial assistance and could be used as a way to examine reform options and begin a serious dialogue
on implementation of reforms with state governments when it is too early to discuss investment loan
support.
The process nature of the operation also better accommodates the demand-driven nature of the quest for
reforms and hence for technical assistance. For example, reformns in the power sector have recently been
initiated by the state of Karnataka, including the privatization of distribution. Technical assistance is now
being sought by the state government in the areas of, inter-alia, preparation of a financial restructuring plan
and the privatization of distribution and generation.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Lates Suprvisonly
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
State Roads                        State Roads Infrastructure         S             S
Development TA Project
(ongoing)
Power Sector                       TA Project for Private Power      U              U
Development (completed)
- 12 -



Environmental Management          Environment Capacity Building     U             U
TA (ongoing)
Telecommunications - support to   Telecommunications Sector
regulatory agency and ministry    Reform TA (under preparation)
National Statistics               IDF Grant 27514                   S
Debt Management                   IDF Grant 27594                   S
Disinvestment                     IDF Grant 27522                   U
Other development agencies
Department for International      Grant-based TA to support
Development, UK                   reforms in the power sector in
Orissa, Haryana, Andhra
Pradesh, and broader public
sector reforms in Orissa.
US Agency for International       Grant-based TA to support
Development                       municipal sector reforms,
property tax reforms.
Asian Development Bank            TA and policy advice to
support fiscal, civil service and
power sector reforms.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
TA projects in India have had mixed results. The TA Project for Private Power Development did not
disburse well. However, more recently, the State Roads Infrastructure Development TA project (the "State
Roads TA") has been disbursing vigorously and has built up a robust pipeline of projects seeking external,
mainly Bank, financing, although it has to be remembered that this is a rather specialized TA. TA projects
currently under implementation in India offer the following lessons:
(a)   the State Roads TA did not have adequate resources devoted to overall project monitoring. For a
project of the nature of this proposed operation, it will be essential to ensure that the required information
for financial management is collected and that a check is kept on the extent to which funds are comrnitted
and disbursed have been disbursed under the loan. For this proposed operation, consultants will be hired to
track implementation progress and develop and maintain the financial monitoring system required for
management of this operation;
(b)   the State Roads TA also shows that clear identification up-front of eligibility criteria for access to
TA funds, and in particular clear outputs from the TA, provides incentives for efficient usage of the TA.
This proposed operation highlights the need for strong borrower commitment and action plans to follow
through on reforns identified as key by the consultants/studies. We have sought to address these needs in
the proposed operation by requiring that a participating entity prepare a policy letter and an implementation
plan for its subproject, which establishes performance indicators, monitorable outcomes and a defined
implementation structure; and
(c)    delays in the procurement of consultants due to a lack of understanding of the different evaluation
methods have been frequent in India. This project will attempt to mitigate this by having support provided
by the PMU for smaller subprojects, with larger subprojects requiring a procurement agent funded under
the project unless special procurement expertise can be accessed within the implementation unit The Bank
- 13 -



is planning procurement workshops to subproject implementation agencies particularly on the procurement
of consultants.
Reviews of "process" TA projects by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) indicate two important
lessons for this proposed project:
(a)    effective management and supervision of the project is vital. In particular, the less specification
there is prior to Board approval, the greater the need for monitoring and constant evaluation. Attention has
been paid in the design of this proposed TA to mechanisms (e.g. the PMU and SIP) that provide the Bank
and DEA the necessary information on project financial flows and implementation. In addition, this project
(multi-sector, multi-agency, and multi-theme) requires intense supervision and hence an above average
budget; and
(b)    borrower and user ownership of the TA has to be concretely established at appraisal. In the
context of this operation, this means that the willingness on the part of state governments to borrow from
the central government has to be identified as part of subproject appraisal. This has been confirmed by the
appraisal of the subprojects prepared by the Government of Uttar Pradesh and requests for funding from
other state governments.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
DEA has agreed to the use of funds under the project to establish a PMU with hired consultant(s), which is
the first time it has accepted to do this. This reflects DEA's commitment to ensuring that the project is well
managed and implemented, as does DEA's agreement to play an active role in the management of this
proposed operation, which is again a first.
The interest shown in the facility so far by state governments, most of which will have to borrow the funds
at on-lending terms similar to Bank investment loans, represents substantial commitment. The number of
subproject proposals received so far and their pro-reform focus have reflected demand-driven initiatives.
Many of the proposals are the by-product of broad policy reforms that states have already initiated (e.g.,
UP's fiscal and public sector restructuring reforms and Kamataka's power reform). In addition,
subprojects which are accepted for funding will require an implementation plan showing who from the
participating entity side is responsible for implementation, as well as a clear description of the expected
results of the activities financed under the TA and a policy letter indicating how these fit into their overall
reform measures.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value-added of the Bank's support comes from the Bank's work with reforming states and involvement
in many of the sectors to be covered under the proposed TA, including investment loans and, potentially,
program loans for fiscal adjustment. This will allow the integration of work under the proposed TA facility
with these loans. In addition, the Bank will be able to encourage the dissemination of ideas between the
states, and achieve some economies of scale in effort through learning from pioneer states/urban local
bodies efforts in the design and implementation of refonn measures.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
-14 -



O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Issues related to under-pricing of government-provided services, and fiscal imbalance will, it is expected,
be some of the main themes for which the TA facility will be used. Where the Bank is involved in a
substantive dialogue with a state government on a major program of reform, the Bank would typically
undertake estimations of the fiscal impact of reform measures. Where subprojects, when implemented,
have clearly measurable economic and fiscal costs and benefits, an attempt will be made to quantify these
as part of the subproject implementation plan.
It is expected that some components, if properly implemented, would have substantial benefits for fiscal
management. An example is the work that UP plans to finance under the creation of a Medium-Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF). The MTEF is intended to encourage disciplined decision making and
advance the efficient utilization of scarce public resources by: (i) providing a realistic resource framework
within which individual departments can plan their sector programs; (ii) linking resource allocation to
sector priorities and policies, consistent with the medium-termn macroeconomic and fiscal framework of the
reform program; and (iii) enabling departments to more effectively project their expenditure programs over
the medium-term to achieve desired outcomes.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
There has been considerable interest from state governments in accessing the credit to fund reform of state
sales tax systems, as well as reformn of the finances of municipalities and urban local bodies. The eventual
successful implementation of these reforms would be expected to have beneficial fiscal impact. One of the
first subprojects that has been appraised, that of the Government of Uttar Pradesh, is in support of policy
measures which are expected to yield medium-term fiscal benefits.
3. Technical:
Bank appraisal of the contents of the subproject, even where the Bank has not been extensively involved in
preparation, as well as review by the Bank of TORs and, for larger consultancies, the short list, will ensure
technical quality and relevance.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The DEA will perform overall project management and monitoring functions, as outlined in Section C4.
As noted in 4.4 below, particular attention needs to be paid to ensuring adequate financial monitoring of
this operadion, as well as coordination of various subprojects' implementation. Executing agencies for
subprojects will be identified during the course of project implementation, and subproject implementation
plans will be required to identify clearly the implementation arrangements proposed. For the subproject of
the Government of UP, the components as a whole will be coordinated by the Department for
Extemally-Aided Projects. The individual components will be implemented as follows: (a) civil service
reform - Department of Personnel and line departments e.g. Irrigation Department; (b) public enterprise
reform - Working Committee on public enterprise reform and the Divestment Conunission; (c) expenditure
- 15-



management - Finance Department; (d) audit - Controller and State Internal Auditor; (e) Poverty
Monitoring - Department of Planning; (f) urban reforms - Urban Department; (g) tax reforms - Revenue
Department; and (h) civil service reform - UP Academy of Administration.
4.2 Project management:
Project management is a key issue related to the success of this proposed project. The arrangements
proposed in C4 respond to the perceived risks at present, but these will continue to be assessed in the light
of project implementation. Each agency has to submit a subproject implementation plan, which outlines the
key aspects of project management, including responsible agencies, procurement plan, and monitoring
indicators. DEA has provided an overall project management plan. The two participating entities whose
subprojects have been appraised so far, Government of UP and the Department of Programme
Implementation, have prepared implementation plans for their subprojects.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The project monitoring consultants will provide assistance to states and project implementing agencies in
preparing bid documents and evaluating bids, as per the Bank's guidelines, at the request of DEA. It is
expected, however, that larger subprojects will handle procurement themselves, and that the project
monitoring consultants will recommend to the Bank whether there is sufficient in-house capacity to
undertake this or whether the implementing agency would have to hire procurement consultants to ensure
efficient and timely procurement. Finally, the Subproject Implementation Plan will include a Procurement
Plan.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial management issues will be important to the success of project implementation. As Section C4,
notes, the proposed facility may place a larger burden on DEA, in terms of project monitoring and
coordination, than they usually take on.
Therefore, to assist DEA in its management functions, a PMU will be established based in DEA, and
consultants funded by the credit will be hired to ensure that financial reporting meets Bank standards and
provides the requisite information for project management. The PMU would: develop and operate a simple
computerized Project Financial Management System for the duration of the project; provide assistance to
project implementing agencies to ensure that they comply with project financial monitoring requirements
and that they furnish timely reports to DEA, including ensuring that monthly project management reports
are submitted to DEA; recommend the release of funds to implementing agencies based on regular progress
reports; compile the project management reports and send quarterly reports to the Bank, and liaise with
project auditors to ensure that there is timely submission of audit reports. Hiring of these consultants will
be a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
Full Project Management Reports (PMRs) will be begin to be submitted within six months of effectiveness.
PMR-based disbursements would be expected to start within twelve months of the date of effectiveness.
Abridged PMRs will be provided from commencement of the project.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
An adverse impact on the environment is unlikely as this is a technical assistance operation which will be
funding consultancy services and studies, training and minor purchases of equipment. As such, no major
environmental issues are involved. However, each subproject will be structured to ensure that any issues
-16 -



that require attention under the Bank's operational guidelines will be addressed. The subproject of the
Government of UP includes funds for undertaking environmental audits of public enterprises which will be
closed and/or divested as part of the Government's medium term fiscal and governance reform program.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Major reform programs would include an assessment of the impact upon low-income groups, for example
through their access to essential services. Part of the subproject proposed by the GOUP includes funding
for the monitoring of poverty impacts has been included through the establishment of an effective Poverty
and Social Monitoring System (PSMS) in Uttar Pradesh to assess the impact of the Government's
proposed reform program on the poor and weaker segments of society. The various evolving components of
the reform process will be assessed in terms of their social impacts, their success in eliciting greater
stakeholder involvement, and in ensuring that they underpin the goal of poverty reduction.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
It is anticipated that, where major state reform programs are supported, the technical assistance activities
funded under the project would include activities relating to public communication and stakeholder
dialogue.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Not applicable
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not applicable
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not applicable
- 17-



7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the proiect?
_P,,.',:o RiE:,'lEicAplicabi.l'!iLtyt:A 0S
El Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            E Yes l No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04. GP 4.04)                    Cl Yes l No
El Forestry (OP 4.36 GP 4.36                                       El Yes | No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes   No
El Cultural Property (EOPN 11.03                                   El Yes l No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    El Yes N No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               L Yes | No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               El Yes M No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    El Yes Z No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60. GP 7.60)          El Yes M No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
No involuntary resettlement is envisaged, nor are any other conflicts with safeguard policies, and poor
communities are expected to gain from the reforms process. However, during the review of each proposed
subproject, any possible conflict with safeguard policies will be assessed.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the activities funded by the TA will depend upon their quality and relevance, their
dissemination amongst other agencies, their usage by central agencies and states and local governments in
the formulation and, possibly, implementation of reform programs, and in the existence of political support
to implement these reforms.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
'Risk                 0 isk Rating         RXiskMinimization Ma0sure
From Outputs to Objective
Work funded under subprojects is not         M         Bank appraisal of studies in subprojects, in
relevant to key reforms related to poverty             particular scope of work, to ensure they
alleviation and private sector led growth.             adequately address key issues.
Implementing agencies do not provide         S         Subproject Implementation Plans will outline the
sufficient input/guidance to consultants to            counterparts for particular studies. Bank
ensure relevant reports, recommendations               supervision will assess level of interaction
etc. are produced by consultants.                      between consultants and counterparts.
Good consultants are not selected and       M          Bank approval of selection criteria and short list
studies etc. are not of the required quality.          for larger contracts and review of evaluation of
proposals.
-18 -



From Components to Outputs
Central agencies, state governments and        M          Link with current and evolving demand
municipalities do not wish to access TA                   associated with Bank financing in various
under this facility.                                      sectors. Pipeline of applications and appraised
subprojects indicates interest of states in
particular in accessing the facility to assist in
reform efforts.
Poor project management: (i) financial         S          Clear delineation of responsibilities up-front,
reporting not adequate, nor is overall                   including the identification of support to DEA
information on project implementation;                    for overall project management through the
(ii) individual agencies using TA facility                project monitoring consultant. Funds will be
do not establish efficient implementation                 released to entities or states which have defined
and management structures that can                        implementation and project management
provide required inputs to DEA and                        structures.
project management consultant; (iii)
delays in counterpart funding availability;
and (iv) inadequate capacity in
procurement leading to delays in hiring
consultants.
Overall Risk Rating                            S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Many of the reform areas which may be supported are controversial in India, such as reform of the civil
service and public enterprises. This proposed operation will however be concemed with the development
and analysis of options and strategies for reform rather than be directly involved in their implementation (as
would, for example, a project aimed at public enterprise reform which funded severance pay).
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
DEA has signed at least one Participation Agreement with a state or central ministry/entity.
The borrower has established the PMU and the Project Monitoring Consultants have been hired.
- 19 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The project auditor, Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG), has been selected under the terms of
references agreed with the Bank.
The audit report on the Special Account maintained by DEA will include a sunmmary of transactions and
the closing balance held by the Reserve Bank of India.
All participating states and central agencies will fumish each year audited annual project accounts and an
audit report thereon within six months from the close of the year.
Funds cannot be disbursed to a subproject implementing agency until the agency has signed a Participation
Agreement with DEA.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
! 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
3 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Clive G. Harris                Roberto Zagha   /                       Li
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director     -     Country ManagerlDirector
- 20 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDIA: Technical Assistance for Economic Reform Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives              Indicators            Monitoring & Evaluation          Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:              Sectorl country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Public finances on a sustainable  Fiscal deficit of state   Sector work (by Government and Continued support for reform
path, reorientation of        governments, financial position of Bank), including CAS, CDR.    agenda, macroeconomic stability.
expenditures towards          urban local bodies.           Supervision reports. Economic
developmental expenditures,   Share of expenditures going to   reports of Government of India
increased role of the private  developmental expenditures e.g.  and of state governments.
sector in providing essential  health and primary education.
public services.              Coverage of essential services.
Poverty trends.
Project Development           Outcome I Impact              Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                    Indicators:
Assist reform-minded govermnent Implementation of reforms in  Bank supervision and sector  Continued momentum towards
agencies to design, and possibly  20% of subprojects within I year work. Economic reports of  implementing and sustaining
implement, selected reforms   of project completion date.   Government of India and of state  reform policies in India,
aimed at allowing the public                                governments.
sector to reorient expenditures
towards priority social sector
spending linked to poverty
alleviation (e.g. education and
health) and at facilitating private
sector led growth.
- 21 -



Output from each              Output Indicators:            Project reports:               (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
All subprojects will identify  At an aggregate project level:   Bank supervision reports,  For all subprojects: (1)
their own outputs and monitoring (1)    number of signed    Quarterly PMRs, consultant    subprojects are relevant to
indicators in their subproject    Participation Agreements;  reports etc.                 poverty alleviation and private
implementation plans.         (2)    utilization of funds                                  sector led growth; (2)
(3)    production of consultant                             implementing agencies provide
reports and delivery of                                     input to consultants etc. to ensure
capacity-building programs.                                 relevant recommendations; and
(3) good consultants are selected
and studies are of required
quality.
Government of UP:             Poverty Monitoring: (I)       GoUP and consultant reports;
(1) Poverty Monitoring        Baseline survey; (2) Annual   Bank supervision reports.
Component: information base of monitoring surveys; (3)
trends in poverty.            Community Monitoring surveys;
(4) Special purpose studies and
surveys (5) Followup to Baseline
survey in 2005.
(2) Civil Service Reform:     Civil service reform: (I)
capacity-building and training;   delivery of training programs; (2)
inter-departmental functional    reports on functional reviews.
reviews.
(3) Financial Accountability:   Financial accountability: (1)
study providing design of     Implementation plan for
structure and functions for   modernization of financial
modernized controller and     management and audit; (2)
internal audit functions, with    detailed TOR for consultants to
plans for implementation.     work on implementation; (3)
recommendations for optimal
structure of department.
(4) Public enterprise reform:   Public enterprise reform: (1)
strategy for sale or closure of  Environmental audit reports; (2)
public enterprises.          strategy recommendations for
closure or privatization of public
enterprises.
(5) Expenditure Management:  Expenditure management: (1)
benchmarking of expenditures to  Budget Framework Paper to be
assist in budgetary process.  produced in the 1st 6 months of
each year; (2) medium term
expenditure projections for each
sector.
(6) Tax Reform: designing a    Tax reform: Reports on (1)
new functional organization to    organizational redesign; (2)
meet changing requirements;    strategy for introduction of VAT;
developing systems to move    and (3) design of VAT
towards introduction of VAT.    implementation system.
- 22 -



(7) Urban Reform:             Urban reform: (1)
recommendations for property tax Recommendations for improved
reforms, assessment of urban  property tax system in one pilot
finances and City Development  city, 2) Production of reports on
Strategies.                   urban finances/institutional
arrangements and 3) City
Development Strategies
completed in two cities.
(8) Irrigation Department     Irrigation Department Reform:
Reform: reports on           (I) study on restructuring of
departmental/functional reform   Irrigation Department; (2)
and on information systems    Information Systems
requirements.                requirements for the department;
(3) report on proposed changes in
design and research activity.
Ministry of Statistics and    (1) Surveys on project        Consultant reports; Bank
Programme Implementation:   implementation quality; (2)     supervision reports, monitoring
capacity-building for project  delivery of training programmes  and project reports.
management and implementation. on project management, including
assessment of number of
attendees and quality of
programmes; and (3)
establishment of a project
management center and schemes
of excellence.
- 23 -



Project Components I         Inputs: (budget for each     Project reports:              (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                 Outputs)
Most subprojects will be     Total project cost: US$55.0  Bank supervision missions,    For all subprojects:
allocated funds during project    million                 project monitoring reports and
implementation. A description of                          audit reports.                Central agencies, state
the components for the two                                                              governments and municipalities
subprojects which have been                                                             wish to access TA under this
appraised already is given below.                                                       facility.
Good project management: (I)
project management structure
ensures compilation of accurate
and adequate project financial
data; (2) individual agencies
using TA facility establish
efficient implementation and
management structures that can
provide required inputs to DEA
and project management
consultant; (3) no delays in
counterpart funding availability;
and (4) no delays in procurement.
Government of UP component: Total cost: US$5.5 million
consultancies to assist in civil
service, public enterprise and tax
reform, modernization of
expenditure management and
audit functions, urban property
tax reform and monitoring
poverty levels in UP.
Ministry of Statistics and   Total cost: US$3.1 million
Programme Implementation:
technical assistance in project
management and implementation.
- 24 -



Annex 2: Project Description
INDIA: Technical Assistance for Economic Reform Project
The proposed credit is being developed as a process operation, where funds are largely allocated during the
course of project implementation for either the preparation or implementation of subprojects. Up to
$150,000 of the credit can be accessed during the first three years of implementation for the preparation of
subprojects. The remainder of this Annex describes those subprojects which have been appraised, are under
preparation or at a stage of identification.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$5.50 million
*     Government of Uttar Pradesh
The proposals of the Government of Uttar Pradesh cover the following:
A. Tax reform
The GoUP's ultimate goals in tax reform are to enhance its own revenue and create a fairer, simpler, higher
compliance tax system while reducing inefficiencies of the current system that retard private sector growth.
The strategy for the medium term comprises measures to bring about systemic reforms by simplifying and
rationalizing both policy design and administrative practices. Reform would cover sales tax, stamp duties
and potentially other taxes. The strategy for modernization of the sales tax would first emphasize the
adoption of a functional design to the organization of the sales tax department, with better staff recruitment
and training. This will lead to self assessment with appropriate audit procedures either before the adoption
of VAT or in conjunction with VAT implementation. In parallel, basic business procedures will be
modified and modern information technology will be introduced state wide. As part of adoption of self
assessment, appellate and tax tribunal procedures would be simplified with a view to reduce the incidence
of taxpayer disputes and to achieve a speedier resolution of cases. Next, the strategy envisages adoption of
a VAT in coordination with other states and with enabling support from the Government of India. The
major tasks involved in modernizing a tax administration are: (a) adopting an organizational structure to
allow for the introduction of VAT; (b) changing the skill mix of staff and implement measures to effectively
utilize human resource skills; (c) development of a package of audit selection design, building audit
performance skills, adoption of modem business procedures, and developing core computer competencies;
and (e) strategic planning for VAT leading to the medium term adoption of VAT utilizing modem audit and
information technology tools to ensure compliance.
The design and implementation of the above reform strategy will need appropriate technical assistance. A
key requirement is that sufficient tax administration staff with appropriate decision making authority and
necessary skills can be made available on a full-time basis to implement the modernization strategy. The
main components of the technical assistance would be: (a) development of strategy for improving corporate
culture of the Trade Tax Department and addressing vulnerability of the department to corruption, and
creation of awareness among traders of the necessity for better tax compliance; (b) organizational change in
the wake of computerization of the Trade Tax Department and the final introduction of VAT; and (c) the
design of an appropriate VAT system for UP and a strategy for the changeover from the present system to
VAT, including the design of modern business procedures.
- 25 -



B. Expenditure Management
This would be centered around the preparation of a Budget Framework Paper to be prepared during the
first half of each fiscal year and would consist of: (a) the mediuin-term macroeconomic and fiscal'
framework that provides the context and the basis for projecting public expenditure allocations; (b) sector
expenditure strategies to determine strategic shifts in resource allocations between sectors and set priorities
within each sector; and (c) medium-term expenditure projections for each sector and department, including
both non-plan (committed) and plan (developmental) expenditures. Introduction of the MTEF will be
phased progressively over three years, as capacity is built up within the government. The initial MTEF
will involve the preparation of the BFP by September 2000, for preparation of the 2001-02 Budget. The
MTEF will be revised and rolled forward each year in order to maintain the medium-term (at least 3 year)
expenditure planning horizon.
The consultants will provide assistance with the following tasks: (a) analysis and projection of state's own
revenues, central resource transfers, external project financing and budgetary support; (b) analysis and
projection of spending trends and demands including: (i) administrative costs, (ii) wage and pension
payments, (iii) explicit subsidies and grants, (iv) social sector expenditures, (v) infrastructure investment
and maintenance costs, (vi) centrally financed and co-financed schemes, (vii) externally aided project
expenditures and (viii) direct costs of implementing reforms (including VRS and power sector reforms); (c)
identification and analysis of key budgetary issues (e.g.: fiscal impact of decentralization to local bodies,
norms for O&M in key sectors, balance between wage and non-wage allocations); (d) facilitating the work
of Integrated Financial Advisers in each major spending department to develop sector expenditure
strategies, involving the preparation of background documentation and conducting of sector specific
workshops and meetings; (e) development of proposals for introducing greater performance orientation into
the budget system, and for strengthening the linkage between inputs, outputs and outcomes; (f) developing
proposals for sector resource ceilings to be incorporated in the BFP and to be adhered to in the preparation
of the 2001-02 Budget; (g) proposing the format for the BFP and assistance in its preparation and editing;
and (h) preparation of time-table for follow-up actions to prepare the 2001-02 Budget and the subsequent
2001 BFP.
C. Public Enterprise Reform
In the first phase of the program, the GOUP will close or divest the following enterprises: (a) UP State
Sugar Corporation (11 units); (b) UP State Textiles Corporation (head office and 5 units); (c) UP
Instrumentation Limited; (d) UP State Mineral Development Corporation; (e) Pashudan Udyog Nigam
Ltd.; and (vi) UP Cement Corporation Ltd.. A Divestment Commission has been established which will
recommend strategies for privatization or closure of public enterprises which operate in the commercial
sector. The actual implementation of the strategy will be undertaken by a Working Committee, involving
inter alia the concerned Administrative Departments. The proposed program of technical assistance would
have three components: (a) specialist individuals who will work in the implementation unit of the Working
Committee; (b) funancial consultants who will work with the Divestment Commission to produce
privatization or closure strategies for the public enterprises, operating in the commercial sector, which are
not part of the first phase; and (c) consultants to undertake environmental audits of the companies which
are to be closed during the first phase of the public enterprise reform program.
D. Municipal Management and Finances
This has three sub-components: the first is implementation of property tax reforms in a selected pilot city,
- 26 -



which can then be replicated in other municipal areas. This will contribute to a significant enhancement of
municipal own-source revenues. The second is an assessment of urban finances and institutional
arrangements for delivery of urban services. This will identify key policy and institutional reforms needed
in the sector. The third is the development of city development strategies (CDSs) in two pilot cities. This
will provide a local framework for CDS which can then be adapted for use in other cities. It will also help
to identify key investment priorities in the two pilot cities.
E. Monitoring of Poverty Impacts
The main purpose of the Technical Assistance (TA) is to support the establishment of an effective Poverty
and Social Monitoring System (PSMS) in Uttar Pradesh to assess the impact of the Government's
proposed reform program on the poor and weaker segments of society. As part of this exercise, (a) a
baseline household survey of a wide range of welfare indicators will be carried out throughout the state
initially, and then repeated after about 3-5 years, (b) a periodic survey collecting information on a few key
indicators in a selected number of communities will be carried out every 3-6 months, and (c) additional
more focused surveys will be undertaken as needed to investigate issues of special interest as they arise. In
addition, some of the data already being collected by the Department of Economics and Statistics and other
government departments will be computerized and consolidated into a comprehensive database of
household and community-level indicators of living standards.
This component consists of: (a) consulting inputs to provide technical assistance and support to the
program monitoring units (PMU), both in the Department of Planning as well as in the Chief Secretary's
office, to develop and implement a work-plan for (i) computerization, (ii) networking, and (iii) regular
poverty monitoring and analysis; (b) purchase of related computer equipment: (i) purchase of computer
hardware, and (ii) purchase of computer software/software development and training; computers will be
purchased for (i) the Department of Economics and Statistics, (ii) the Program Monitoring Units in the
Department of Planning and in the Chief Secretary's office, and (iii) for the user departments (Rural
Development, SUDA, etc.); provision in the TA request for software procurement and training is mainly to
(i) develop effective systems to computerize on a regular basis data being collected by DES, (ii) allow
many of the reporting and monitoring functions of DES to be automated rather than be processed manually
(as is done presently), (iii) purchase computer software (SPSS, Visual Foxpro, etc.) and other such tools
needed to efficiently process and analyze the vast array of information currently being collected, and (iv)
provide training to DES staff to allow them to develop application software in-house if needed; (c) training
in (i) poverty monitoring and analysis, (ii) statistical analysis software (SPSS, etc.), and (iii) project
monitoring and evaluation techniques; (d) workshops and consultations (within GOUP, civil society,
NGOs, etc.) and to disseminate main findings and results; and (e) expenditures envisaged under this
particular component include (i) survey preparation costs, (ii) additional field costs, (iii) data entry, and (iv)
special-topic studies that will most likely be contracted out by the Department of Planning (community
monitoring, qualitative participatory monitoring, studies of structure of production, sources of income for
the poor, impact of decentralization, etc.).
F. Reform of the Irrigation Department
This would: (a) describe the present organizational structure of Irrigation Department; (b) summarise
salient organizational features and activities of other agencies dealing in water resources development or
interacting with Irrigation Department directly or on behalf of beneficiaries, with attention to the role of
beneficiaries in Water resources Development; (c) describe on the basis of current government orders,
responsibilities of irrigation Department functionaries and responsibilities at different levels, and describe
financial and technical powers of these functionaries; (d) describe Irrigation Department regulations and
- 27 -



policies pertaining to long-term resource planning and management, real time water allocation, services in
supply, drainage, flood control and river basin management etc.; (e) define the future general roles
envisioned for UPID, the private sector and individuals in water development and management; (f) describe
objectives and policies as they relate to: (i) resources development; (ii) operations and maintenance; (iii)
funding; and (g) propose modifications in the organizational structure of the Irrigation Department for
obtaining optimum results in the overall Water Resources Development keeping in view the following: (i)
changing functions, delegation of authority, responsibilities and duties of the Irrigation Department,
unbundling of operations, formation of water user associations and transfer of management of bulk and
retail distribution to these entities; (ii) creation of functionally-specialized line units with responsibility for
water resources management, project planning, design and research, hydrology and drainage; (iii)
interaction with SWPO, SWB, and SWRDAC and other institutions; (iv) analysis of age profile, skill mix
and recommendation of staffmg pattern and extent and mechanisms for overall right-sizing of the Irrigation
Department and related entities; and (v) training needs for the ID and related entities.
G. Modernization of the Financial Management and Audit Functions
The objective of this assignment is to provide assistance to the Controller and State Internal Auditor in: (a)
developing detailed implementation plans, including the terms of reference, for the modernization of the
financial management and internal audit functions of GOUP; (b) development of detailed plans for the for
the possible implementation of resource based accounting system; (c) assist in facilitating the change
management process in the Controller and internal audit functions; (d) advise on the optimal organizational
structure for the Controller and internal audit functions; and (e) assist in defining the roles, responsibilities,
and the reporting relationships in the Controller and internal audit functions.
H. Civil Service Reform
The purpose of the civil service reform program is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the state
civil service, with the ultimate goal of contributing towards the improvement of the quality of services
delivered to the population of the state, and to enhance the capacity of the government in carrying out its
core functions. Capacity building, in a broad sense encompassing capabilities for policy and strategy
formulation, programme design, preparation of action plans, as well as institutional strengthening and
training and orientation programs, is viewed as essential to the success of this reform and renewal program.
The UP Academy for Administration in Naini Tal will take the lead in the implementation of this program.
The key components of this reform program are: (a) to develop a comprehensive capacity building package,
including policy, strategy and implementation plans for the civil service renewal program of the state of UP
- in this the main components will be to carry out a systematic identification of capacity-building needs of
identified key departments, as well as the design and development of training modules; (b) to strengthen the
UP Academy as well as other identified training institutes as the key capacity building agencies of the state
of UP, which will include some limited equipment purchases; (c) to ensure operationalization of the State
Training Policy, as approved by the State Training Council, as an initiative for strengthening the CSR
programme; and (d) undertake fimctional reviews of line departmnents.
The Government of UP is preparing additional subprojects for financing under this proposed operation.
Project Component 2 - US$3.10 million
*   Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation
Aimed at improving capacities for the management and implementation of projects, the subproject will
- 28 -



cover the following activities:
(i) conduct sample surveys, both base-line and end-of-project surveys to assess the current state of project
management in India; these would cover project management practices, project management capabilities,
and current time and cost over-runs;
(ii) procure project implementation monitoring software for use by public sector;
(iii) develop in-depth case studies for project management;
(iv) organize conferences and workshops regarding best practices in project management;
(v) provide in-depth training for personnel involved in project management at a middle/senior level;
(vi) establish a project management center which would provide resources for project management
research, networking and improvement in management practices;
(vii) institute a scheme for excellence in project management, with the goal of encouraging the adoption of
best management practices and developing models and case studies from within India and abroad; and
(viii) Project Monitoring Consultants who will work in the Project Management Center to support
implementation of the overall project.
Subproject currently at an advanced stage of preparation:
0 Government of Karnataka
The Government of Kamataka has embarked upon a comprehensive power sector reform program to
restore the creditworthiness of the sector, attract private investors, improve its operational efficiency and
enhance customer service quality. To this end, in June 1999, the Government promulgated the Karnataka
Electricity Reform Act for the establishment of the Electricity Regulatory Commission and the
restructuring of the Karnataka Electricity Board involving separation and corporatization of the generation,
transmission and distribution functions. The Government, in its deliberation of January 27, 2000, has also
decided to start immediately the process for privatization of distribution.
A Steering Committee, chaired by the Chief Secretary, is responsible for providing overall policy direction
and overall supervision of the reform program, while a Task Force headed by the Energy Secretary will
facilitate and expedite decisions. Eight working groups have been constituted in KEB to prepare and
implement the restructuring and reform program in the following areas: corporatization, financial
restructuring, assets listing and evaluation, technical upgradation and investment program, human resource
development, communication, tariff rationalization and distribution delineation. These working groups
have progressed very well in data collection and analyses. However, they need to be assisted by reputed
consultants with experience of similar work in India and world-wide. The work so far undertaken by the
working groups would be invaluable in enhancing the quality of the consultants' input and reduce costs.
The Government has initiated the process to request that roughly US$10 million out of the proceeds of this
credit be earmarked for technical assistance to implement the restructuring and privatization program. In
this context, the Government intends to engage consultants for assignments in different areas, including, but
not limited to, the following.
- 29 -



A. Technical Aspects
Karnataka needs to develop proper load forecasting, investment and production planning models to analyze
investment options, assess alternatives for the reconfiguration of the distribution business, ensure that bulk
power purchases are in line with the state requirements, and assess options for mitigating environmental
impacts. A related area where the Government would like to avail of qualified advice is on the estimation
of technical and non-technical losses. Given that over 60% of consumption in Kamataka is presently not
metered, the need to undertake an independent assessment of the level of system losses is paramount. This
would also become an important element in the regulatory process and as a managernent tool to identify
intervention and investments for system loss reduction. Other technical aspects to be examined could also
include identification of technical upgradation requirements, including the load dispatch center, DSM and
other transmission and distribution investments.
B. Financial Aspects
The preparation and implementation of the reform program requires a considerable amount of financial
works for deciding the configuration of the distribution business, preparing a financial restructuring plan,
transferring assets and liabilities during the un-bundling, preparing and finalizing a 10-year financial model
of the sector at the level of disaggregated companies (generation, transmission and distribution companies),
preparing business plans for the privatization of the distribution companies, preparing and filing revenue
requirements and tariff applications, determining the extent of subsidies which may be required, etc.. The
financial projections would incorporate the assumptions for the business plan for the power utilities and
Kamataka including the impact of policy decisions.
C. Privatization of Distribution
A qualified and reputed advisor would assist the Government in the preparation of the strategy for the
privatization of the distribution companies, their configuration, the preparation of documents, bidding
processes, evaluation criteria, data room, road show and final negotiations with the selected private sector
investors.
D. Corporatization and Commercialization
Assistance would also be required for the preparation of the grid code, the distribution code, power
purchase agreements, electricity supply agreements; legal counseling, institutional strengthening of KPTCL
as well as support to the utilities on regulatory issues (e.g., ARR, tariff filing).
E. Institutional Strengthening of KPTCL
KPTCL is expected to be the main transmission company (perhaps along with the operatorship) in the
medium term. Assistance to KPTCL would probably be required in developing commercial arrangements
with other utilities and, according to the industry structure, for developing power markets.
F. Social and Communication Aspects
A social impact analysis of power sector reforns is expected to be carried out with the assistance of
consultants to incorporate possible concems in the design and implementation of the restructuring program
and in the regulatory process. Transparency is one of the key requirements for the success of the reform
program and it can be achieved by designing and implementing programs for effectively communicating the
- 30 -



policy and intention of the GOK and KEB to all the stakeholders in the sector including employees,
legislators, consumers, suppliers and lenders. Consultants would be engaged to assist in the preparation of
the strategy and in its implementation.
The identification of the above areas for technical assistance should not be considered exhaustive as the
restructuring and privatization program involves complex institutional changes and therefore requirements
that cannot be precisely planned. It is possible that a future application will also request support for the
Kamataka Electricity Regulatory Commission.
The estimated total cost of this proposed subproject would be around US$10 million.
In addition, the following five states and one central government agency have submitted proposals,
which are being reviewed:
Ministry of Urban Development, Gol
(a)    Capacity building and training program for municipal managers and other functionaries, to be
managed by the Human Settlements Management Institute (HSMI - a part of Housing and Urban
Development Corporation -HUDCO). The proposed programme aims to enable urban local bodies to
acquire skills, knowledge and experience in different solutions to ensure effective delivery of urban services
and responsive urban govemance, particularly in light of the decentralization paradigm under the 74th
Constitutional Amendment Act. The key areas include: local government management, municipal financial
management, management of urban infrastructure and slum development strategies for poverty alleviation.
(b)    Preparation of Manuals for a Municipal Accounting System to be managed by the National
Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA). Given the recent efforts made in some Indian states at improving and
strengthening financial management and accounting for municipal government, it is proposed to prepare a
manual for municipal accounting systems, which will not only complement these efforts, but also provide a
step-by-step user friendly guide to all municipal governments to introduce reform in their accounting
systems. It will also conduct training programs in select states/municipalities to test the effectiveness of the
new system and assist in implementation of the proposed reforms.
(c)    Documentation of Best Practices in Urban Infrastructure and Finance to be managed by the Town
and Country Planning organization (GoI). A number of innovative initiatives have been taken by local
governments in India to respond to the emerging needs for delivery of urban services and their enhanced
role under the 74th Constitutional Amendment Act. The proposed program aims to document such civic
practices, particularly in the larger metropolitan centres with more than one million population. The areas
to be covered include: private sector participation in urban services, market access for municipal
borrowing, rationalization of municipal taxes and user charges, and innovative slum improvement schemes.
These experiences will be disseminated through workshops, training activities and seminars.
The total cost of this subproject is estimated to be around US$2.7 million.
*     The Government of Orissa
This proposal requests support for: the establishment of a reforms implementation cell which will oversee
the reform program that the Government is implementing for fiscal and governance reform; and funding for
retraining and counseling of workers who are made redundant from public enterprises that are either closed
- 31 -



or privatized, to supplement funding already received from the UK Department for International
Development. Orissa has thus far been a leader in India in the implementation of public enterprise reform,
and this would strengthen their activities in this area. In addition, Orissa is looking to broaden its reforms
and the establishment of a reform implementation cell would assist in the coordination of reform efforts.
*      The Government of Madhya Pradesh
The Government of MP has requested support for: civil service reform; urban infrastructure development;
and project formulation for private projects in the urban water/sanitation sector; and strengthening
capacities in project identification and management.
*      The Government of Rajasthan
This proposal request assistance in (i) the development of institutional mechanisms for efficient delivery of
urban and other infrastructure services within an integrated development setting, in particular water and
solid waste and environmental management; and (ii) an assessment, state-wise, of the demand for
infrastructure services.
*      The Government of Himachal Pradesh
It has submitted a proposal for assistance in strengthening capacities for environmental management in the
state, which covers issues related to the zoning of sites in the state, and environmental appraisal and
management.
*      The Government of Gujarat
Gujarat has been one of India's leaders in ternns of attempting to attract private funds and management
expertise into the infrastructure sectors, and has had some success to date in the power generation, ports
and roads sectors. Building on this success, the Govermment is now looking to broaden these activities to
include the urban sector, encompassing activities in water and solid waste. The Government of Gujarat has
applied to the Bank to use some of the funds under this proposed operation to support activities related to
the private provision of key infrastructure services, in particular the development of the institutional, legal,
regulatory and contractual frameworks required.
-32 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDIA: Technical Assistance for Economic Reform Project
Local       Foreign       Total
Projed Cost By Component                US $milifon   Us smfillion   US$milibon
Government of Uttar Pradesh                              4.00         1.50         5.50
Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (GoI)  1.15       1.95         3.10
Unallocated                                             34.85        11.55        46.40
Total Baseline Cost                                     40.00        15.00        55.00
Physical Contingencies                                  0.00         0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                     0.00         0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs            40.00         15.00        55.00
Total Financing Required             40.00        15.00        55.00
Local       Foreign       Total
Proect Cost By Category                Us $mitlion   US $million   US $millon
Goods                                                      5.00          2.00         7.00
Works                                                      0.00          0.00         0.00
Services                                                  32.00         12.00        44.00
Training                                                   2.00          1.00         3.00
Incremental Operating Costs                                1.00          0.00         1.00
Total Project Costs    40.00         15.00        55.00
Total Financing Required    40.00          15.00       55.00
- 33 -



Annex 4
INDIA: Technical Assistance for Economic Reform Project
Economic and Fiscal Analysis and Subproject Justification
Issues related to under-pricing of government-provided services, and fiscal imbalance will, it is expected,
be some of the main activities for which the TA facility will be used.
*   Government of Uttar Pradesh Subproject
Uttar Pradesh (UP) is a state with a proud history and significant accomplishments to its credit. However,
over the last decade, slowing growth, serious fiscal problems, and a weakening of public institutions have
constrained the economic and social development of the state. In particular, as a result of fiscal and
institutional problems, the quality and quantity of public services rendered through health, education,
nutrition, population and anti-poverty programs have suffered. Poverty, significantly above the national
average at around 41 percent, is stagnating, rather than declining.
The Government of UP is making a concerted effort to revitalize the state's economic performance through
a wide-ranging reform program, in particular through strengthening the provision of education and health
services to improve the basic well-being of the people of UP and restructuring the major infrastructure
sectors to attract private investment and accelerate growth. In particular, they have initiated a
comprehensive restructuring of the power sector, which until now has been a drain on state finances,
including the passage of reform legislation, the unbundling of the State Electricity Board and the
establishment of an independent regulator.
In order to improve both the quality and quantity of essential public services, it is critical that the state's
high fiscal deficit is reduced while high priority development and social expenditures are increased.
System-wide improvements in the incentives facing public servants, processes, and public institutions are
needed to redefine the role of the government in the economy through deregulation and divestment while
increasing its transparency, efficiency and accountability.
The Government of UP has developed a wide-ranging medium-term Fiscal Reform and Public Sector
Restructuring Program whose major components are described below, along with an identification of the
reform measures which the TA will assist in. It has already taken a number of difficult measures during the
1999-2000 fiscal year in the areas of fiscal stabilization, structural reforms and administrative
improvements. As a result, the deterioration in the state's finances has been arrested and revenue
collection, expenditure control and financial management have all started to improve.
The Fiscal Reform & Public Sector Restructuring Program
In 1998 the Government of UP published a White Paper on the State's Finances which brought to public
attention the state's deteriorating fiscal position. Since then, they have published several sectoral policy
papers, including one on power and another on irrigation sector reforms. The Fiscal Reform and Public
Sector Restructuring Program is spelt out in five Policy Papers - i.e., Medium Term Fiscal Reform
Policy, Reforms in Govemance, Civil Service Reforms, Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization and
Financial Management & Accountability Strategy.
Medium-term Fiscal Policy
The main objectives of the medium-term fiscal policy include: (a) reducing the fiscal deficit so that the ratio
of debt to Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) and interest payments to revenues begin to decline; (b)
- 34 -



improving the composition of public spending to enhance its developmental impact; and (c) reforming the
tax system to improve efficiency in resource allocation. The extent of required fiscal deficit reduction over
the next five years (1999-2004) is considerable. In order to stabilize the level of its debt and debt service
ratios, the Government is committed to eliminate the primary deficit (the gap between revenue and
non-interest expenditure), estimated at about 3.5 percent in 1998-99, and turn it into a surplus by
2003-2004. This is inclusive of the projected budgetary support for financial restructuring of the power
sector and Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) of workers in public enterprises that will be
closed/divested. The overall fiscal deficit is targeted to decline from 7.5 percent of GSDP in 1998-99 to
about 4 percent by 2003-2004. Over this period, the state's own tax revenues is projected to rise from 5.4
percent to 7.6 percent and public investment together with non-wage O&M to rise from less than 2 percent
of GSDP to about 4 percent. Social sector spending, including through devolution to local bodies, is
anticipated to rise from 3 percent of GSDP in 1998-99 to 4 percent by 2003-2004.
There has already been measurable improvement in the state's fiscal management over the past twelve
months. The fiscal deficit is.expected to decline from 7.5 percent of GSDP in 1998-1999 to 7.0 percent in
1999-2000. Consistent with the medium-term fiscal framework, the Government aims at a further reduction
of the fiscal deficit to no more than 6.0 percent of GSDP in 2000-2001. Net of the power sector's
projected financial restructuring requirements, the deficit is targeted to decline from 6.0 percent of GSDP in
1999-2000 to 4.5 percent in 2000-2001. To help us achieve our fiscal targets, contingency plans are being
prepared on an annual basis, starting in 1999-2000, to enable mid-course revisions. The Government has
imposed strict controls over its debt and guarantees. Given the projected increases in our sectoral
investments, the debt stock to GSDP ratio is expected to continue to rise initially, though more slowly than
in the recent past, to peak at about 42.0 percent in 2002-2003 and then begin to decline.
Public Expenditure Policy and Management
This strategy for improving public expenditure policy and management includes the following measures.:
(a) stabilizing debt, by targeting a cut in overall non-interest expenditure, from 16.6 percent in 1999-2000
to 15.3 percent in 2003-2004; (b) controlling growth in the wage bill by restrictions on recruitment already
in place so as to downsize the civil service by about 2 percent annually (see further under Civil Service
Reforms), as well as abolishing staff entitlement to encash outstanding leave; (c) reducing the burden of
non-merit subsidies: in this context, UP has raised the rates of user charges for professional education and
hospital care by 50-100 percent and decided to raise canal irrigation user charges in 2000-2001. Explicit
subsidies non-merit are targeted to fall from 1.4 percent of GSDP 1998-1999 to 0.7 percent in 2003-2004;
(d) identifyuing a category of "high priority developmental expenditures", which includes non-wage O&M
and capital investments in irrigation, roads, education and health sectors as well as the up-front costs of
reforms in the power sector and other public enterprises. This category of expenditures will be protected
from any budget cuts and will see significantly enhanced budgetary expenditure in the coming years. The
Government of UP has also requested the Comptroller and Auditor General of India for a special audit of
these components of the expenditure budget, to be conducted at the end of each fiscal year; (e) preparation
of a strategy for establishing a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). The MTEF will begin to
be implemented in 2000-2001 and be fully in place the following year; (f) conducting annual public
expenditure reviews and strengthen, over time, capacity in the governnent to evaluate the effectiveness of
public spending; (g) reviewing current pension and provident fund systems. A study of reform options will
be carried out in 2000-2001, with reforms themselves to be initiated in 2001-2002; and (h) taking a number
of measures have been taken to improve Expenditure ControL The practice of depositing unspent balances
at the end of the year into the Personal Ledger Accounts has been terminated. A new system of reporting
time and cost over runs and stricter requirements for new project starts have been established.
The technical assistance would support the development of the MTEF (see above) which is an essential
- 35 -



step towards the management and prioritization of expenditures.
Tax Reforms
The State's goals in tax reforms are to substantially enhance its own tax revenue and create a fairer and
simpler tax system. The Government's reform strategy envisages replacement of the main tax, the sales (or
trade) tax, by a VAT in 2004, after adequate preparation and in coordination with other states and the
Government of India. Over the next four years, the strategy focuses on improving both tax policies and tax
administration.
As a first step towards rationalisation of sales tax rates, the Government has implemented the Floor Rates
in accordance with the agreement reached among all states and the Centre. Further steps to reduce the
number of rates from 11 to no more than 5, and to reduce the commodity classification from about 1400 to
about 200 will be implemented in 2000-01. An entry tax has been introduced on selected commodities
including non-levy sugar and tobacco, and its scope is proposed to further expand in 2000-01. The Motor
Vehicle Tax Act has been amended to enable the government to make annual revisions in rates through
executive orders.
Estimates suggest that the campaign to curb evasion of sales tax has yielded at least Rs.200 crore
additional revenue during 1999-2000. The Cabinet has approved amendments to the Trade Tax Act, which
governs the sales tax, to strengthen enforcement and curb evasion practices such as under-valuation and
non-registration. A pilot survey of unregistered dealers in 2 districts has revealed that 15 percent of the
surveyed dealers are required to register. Steps have been initiated to modernise tax administration through
the introduction of computerized procedures. A complete set of customised software has been developed
and tested for acceptance. Over the next 2 years, a functional restructuring of the Trade Tax Departnent
will be completed, which will place greater emphasis on better staff recruitment and training and a
departmental anti-corruption strategy. By 2003-2004, the state would rely on self-assessment, with
appropriate audit procedures, and the introduction of modern information technology statewide to reduce
direct interface with tax payers. The system of land registration and property valuation will also be
modenized, leading to increased yield from stamp duties and the urban property tax.
Activities to be funded under this proposed operation include planning for the introduction of VAT and
improving the corporate culture of the Trade Tax Department. In addition, the work proposed to support
the improvement of property tax collection at the municipal level would improve public finances in UP.
Civil Service Reforms (CSR)
The Government's strategy to combat issues of low productivity, overstaffing, under-utilization and limited
skills. First, to strengthen the fiscal position, they are targeting a global downsizing of at least 2 percent per
year from 1998-1999 to 2003-2004. This will yield an estimated savings of about Rs.20 billion, or 1
percentage point of GSDP. The 2 percent downsizing target has been chosen on the basis of an annual
attrition rate of 3 percent, to allow for increased staffing in critical areas such as rural health care
education and law enforcement. Greater downsizing and redeployment is likely to be necessary in certain
areas, such as Irrigation and Public Works. Already about 10,000 vacant positions identified as redundant
in various departments have been abolished.
The second thrust of the refonns is to enhance the productivity of the civil service. This will be initiated via
a series of inter and intra-departmental functional reviews. The first such reviews will be conducted during
2000-2001 for five key departments that are considered the most important for improving economic
performance and reducing poverty. Four of these departments, Forestry, Irigation, Medicine and Health,
- 36 -



and Public Works, comprise over 30 percent of all civil servants in UP. The fifth, the Trade Tax
Department, plays a critical role for the state's own tax mobilization effort.
Third, the Government of UP aims to improve meritocracy within the civil service and restore managerial
authority, through a variety of measures including: establishing a computerized human resource database,
improving existing systems for performance monitoring and evaluation, allocating more for training,
improving training processes, and reducing transfers. With regards to reducing transfers the Government
has finalized and publicized guidelines for the appointment and transfer of senior and mid-level officers and
are monitoring compliance with the same (the annual transfer policy has been placed on the web); classified
job requirements for all senior positions (the top 1,800 civil service positions within the state); and
established a consultative mechanism to oversee transfers, which has already been initiated in the case of
the most senior officers.
The technical assistance will provide funding for the development of a civil service reform and renewal
program. A substantial program of work is being devoted towards the reform of the Irrigation Department.
Anti-Corruption and Deregulation Strategy
The key objective of the government's reform in this area is to reduce wastage of public resources, and
increase efficiency, transparency and accountability of all departments. The strategy has four main
components. First, they have commissioned a series of independent surveys of officials, businesses and the
public. The survey results will be fed into the production of a detailed anticorruption strategy and
published, along with this strategy, in the year 2000. Follow-up surveys will be conducted at two-year
intervals to monitor progress in the wake of the reforms. Second, the Government will pursue deregulation
to reduce opportunities for corruption in the administration of rules and regulations. Intemal reviews will
be conducted by Policy Planning Cells, which have been established in 62 major departments, while the
high-level Deregulation Committee will conduct an external review with the objective of streamlining the
administrative and regulatory framework.
Third, the Government has already begun strengthening the key accountability institutions: Vigilance
Department and the Lok Ayukta, or Ombudsman. The Government will significantly increase the resource
allocation to both the Vigilance Establishment and the Lok Ayukta in 2000-2001, and these institutions will
be given more control over staff-hiring. Vacancies in the Lok Ayukta organization will be filled and the
backlog of Ayukta reports - stretching back to 1991 - will be submitted during 2000-20.01 to the
Legislative Assembly. Further institutional strengthening is expected in 2000-2001 from the
recommendations of a Governance Reform Task Force. The task force recommendations will be
implemented in 2001-2002. Fourth, to make government more responsive to the citizens, citizens charters
have been published for 18 Governnent Departments specifying service standards. The Cabinet has
approved a code of access for documents of local government, state financial institutions and development
agencies. A Freedom of Information Act, covering a more comprehensive access, will be submitted to the
Legislative Assembly for consideration in 2000-2001.
The proposed operation would fund the inter-departmental reviews described above.
- 37 -



Public Enterprise Reform
The main objective of the government's Public Enterprise reform program is to increase efficiency in the
use of public resources and reduce the managerial and financial burden on the government. The successful
implementation of the program would result in: a reduction in fiscal drain caused by continued
subsidization and non-performing loans to loss making enterprises; release of assets and resources to
private owners who are likely to manage them more productively; and reorientation of the government's
role away from commercial activities. The Government's Policy Paper on Public Enterprise Reform and
Privatization details the Government's policy of divestment, privatization or closure of enterprises which
compete with the private sector or are fundamentally commercial in nature. The Paper provides guidelines
for an open and transparent divestiture or closure of the public enterprises including detailed procedures for
divestment/closure, voluntary retirement and for dealing with environmental issues, which have been
approved by the Cabinet. The Policy Paper also includes procedures for implementation of the First Phase
of the program by March 2001, involving 20 industrial units and about 20,000 workers. A Divestment
Commission has been established. One enterprise, Uttar Pradesh Instrumentation Limited, has been closed
and its assets sold this year and progress is being made in other units. In each of the two years after
2000-2001, about eight industrial units of PEs are proposed to be divested or closed in accordance with the
commnunications of the Divestment Commission. By March 2004, the PE reform program is expected to be
completed with divestiture or closure of those PE's which meet the policy's basic criteria. Only a few
enterprises that serve important social aims are expected to still be in government ownership by March
2004.
The proposed operation would fund environmental audits for enterprises which are to be closed or divested,
as well as strategic advice, to the Divestment Commission and the Working Committee, on the public
enterprise reform program.
Financial Management & Accountability
The Government of UP has four main strategies to strengthen mechanisms for financial management and
accountability: (a) to strengthen financial control, the Government plans to modernize and computerize the
financial management and control architecture, including intemal controls, accounting and management
information systems across the state. This includes the creation of a new position of a Financial
"Controller" to provide leadership in modernizing the system of financial management. Also as of 2001,
major departments will be required to publish revised annual reports outlining clearly their objectives,
activities, costs and actual achievement; (b) to strengthen audit, the Government will in 2000-01 create the
position of "State Internal Auditor". They will consolidate the internal audit function and modernize
intemal audit practice; and (c) they will organize a national conference on "Parliamentary Control of the
Public Purse" in 2000 to build national consensus in favour of increased legislative scrutiny. To improve
public scrutiny, they have established a task force, with members from outside as well as within
government, to recommend modes of presentation and frequency of government financial statements to the
public. Action on the recommendations of the Task Force will be taken next year. The Public Accounts
Committee of the States Legislature has been reactivated, which will further strengthen the scrutiny of
public expenditure; and (d) the Government of UP has arranged with C &AG to conduct audits of high
priority expenditures and of procurement undertaken by major departments.
The proposed operation would provide technical assistance to support the development of financial
accountability systems for the state.
Poverty and Social Monitoring System
- 38 -



The Government's ultimate objective in undertaking reform is to reduce poverty. An effective monitoring
system will enable the Government to not only to mitigate any negative impacts of reform, but also to better
link policies and expenditures to human development outcomes. A Poverty and Social Monitoring System
(PSMS) has been set up in the Office of the Chief Secretary. The system's main components are:
identification of a set of performance indicators and targets to track progress in reducing poverty and
promoting human development; building capacity to better use the extensive statistical information that is
already being collected as well as collect new information; and preparing analysis of the information to
understand the impact of the reforns on the poor and inform policy decisions.
The proposed operation would fund the development of the poverty monitoring system.
*   Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation Subproject
The Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation contains a Project Monitoring Division which
has the responsibility of monitoring all public sector projects in the Central Sector costing more than Rs
200 million. It has also recently been assigned a role for facilitating large private sector projects.
As of March 1998, the PMD was monitoring 418 projects which cost a total of approximately Rs
1,600,000 million. Of these 418 projects, 219 had reported a cost over-run and 220 had reported a time
over-run with respect to their original schedule. The total cost over-run was on the order of Rs 460,000
million. The time over-run reached a maximum of 177 months. The main causes of the delays are funding
constraints, technical and design problems, delays in civil works, problems in tendering and awarding
contracts, land acquisition and related issues of resettlement and rehabilitation, and delays in the receipt of
statutory clearance.
Recently, some remedial measures have been introduced to cut down delays in time and cost over-runs of
projects, including (i) a more systematic approach to dropping, prioritizing or eliminating projects unable to
make progress; and (ii) establishment of Central Empowered Committees, and strengthening of the
monitoring system to provide earlier warning of delays in implementation.
However, a review of the monitoring systems presently in place has revealed the following:
(i) ineffectiveness in identifying/reducing likely delays and problems;
(ii) large data gaps, delays in data generation and transmission, inadequate data analysis, with feedback
not reaching the proper users;
(iii) inadequate information on interlinked projects;
(iv) information difficult to retrieve given the absence of a data bank;
(v) information not reflecting the true picture;
(vi) inadequate use of monitored information in decision making.
These problems arise primarily out of methodological weaknesses in the existing monitoring system. The
existing system has been routinised and gives an impression that it is a well-oiled system; but in reality it is
characterised by deterioration of quality, reliability and timeliness of the information monitored. Moreover,
the system places undue emphasis on monitoring but not on what could be done to adhere to the plan of
work and targets as originally decided. The time and cost overruns are often explained away by "reasons
beyond control" of the project management. Non-adherence to the accountability criteria has weakened the
effectiveness of the monitoring agencies. Finally, the existing system places greater emphasis on financial
rather than physical progress.
- 39 -



Besides the role of monitoring the performance of on-going projects and programmes and performance of
infrastructure, the Programme Implementation Wing of the Ministry has to play the role of institutional
development in the area of project planning, implementation management and other inter-related
inter-sectoral issues. The Wing although with its limited resources and knowledge has brought out several
issues and institutional improvements in the system of project planning, the procedures relating to land
acquisition, rehabilitation, training of project managers, development of construction and project
management practices and many other related areas. The Wing has also played an extensive role in the
adoption of the state-of-the art technology and practices in project management all over the country.
However, it has not been able to address to its responsibilities at the desired pace because of constraints in
performing its role of institutional development.
The professional competence of the existing staff of the monitoring organisations is not equal to the tasks
they are required to perform and there is also lack of infrastructure facilities. There is no arrangement for
training of their staff as a result of which there is lack of awareness about latest development relating to the
methodological issues.
The Project Monitoring Division has in addition a Programme Implementation Wing which plays the role
of institutional development in the area of project planning, implementation management and related areas.
The Department has to date played a role in the adoption of new technologies and approaches for project
implementation.
The Project Monitoring Division has obtained the approval of the Planning Commission to undertake a
scheme for institutional development in the areas of project planning, implementation, monitoring and
performance management to address some of the deficiencies which exist in this area at present. The main
components of this are (i) conduct sample surveys, both base-line and end-of-project surveys to assess the
current state of project management in India; these would cover project management practices, project
management capabilities, and current time and cost over-runs; (ii) procure project implementation
monitoring software for use by public sector; (iii) development of in-depth case studies for project
management; (iv) organization of conferences and workshops regarding best practices in project
management; (v) provision of in-depth training for personnel involved in project management at a
middle/senior level; (vi) establishment of a resource center for project management and implementation,
which would provide resources for project management research; and (vii) institution of a scheme for
excellence in project management, with the goal of encouraging the adoption of best management practices
and developing models and best practice examples from within India.
The Project Monitoring Division is seeking through this program of work to do the following: (i) enhance
capacity and analyze reasons for slow progress more systematically; (ii) suggest measures for accelerating
implementation of projects which are behind schedule; (iii) develop mechanisms to remove obstacles to
progress; (iv) identify the factors contributing to success and transfer that experience to other projects; (v)
make use of the best practices in project management internationally; and (vi) suggest changes in personnel,
systemic practices, administrative procedures etc. which will catalyze better project management.
-40 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDIA: Technical Assistance for Economic Reform Project
This section concentrates on the financial management aspects of this proposed operation.
DEA at the MOF will be responsible for overall project management, supervision, and quality control, as
well as for assessing that the subprojects proposed have obtained the relevant clearances. Each subproject
will have its own implementation structure (see below).
The centralized coordination, facilitation, and financial management required will place an extra burden on
the already heavy mandate of DEA. Therefore, to assist DEA in its management of the project, a Project
Management Unit (PMU) will be established, consisting of one or two consultants whose combined
experience will need to cover project management, procurement, and financial management. The
consultants would be funded under this proposed credit.
In tenms of financial management, the consultants will ensure that financial reporting meets Bank standards and
provides the requisite information for project management. The consultant would develop and operate a simple
computerized Project Financial Management System, based in DEA, for the duration of the project; provide
assistance to project implementing agencies to ensure that they comply with project financial monitoring
requirements and that they furnish timely reports to DEA, including ensuring that monthly project management
reports are submitted to DEA; recommend the release of funds to implementing agencies based on regular
progress reports; compile the project management reports and send quarterly reports to the Bank; liaise with
project auditors to ensure that there is timely submission of audit reports; and provide assistance to states and
project implementing agencies in preparing project documents as per the Bank's guidelines.
Participating states will have project accounts audited by the C&AG annually, and the PMU will furnish all the
required audit reports to the Bank in one submission.
Terms of Reference for Project Management Unit - Project Financial Management
GoI is required to maintain adequate financial management systems-including accounting, budgeting, internal
control, financial reporting, and auditing systems- to ensure that they can provide to the Bank accurate and
timely information regarding project resources and expenditures. The accounting system should produce
LACI-based financial reports that show budgeted versus actual costs for the current period and the total budget
and cost of the project to date. The integrated financial management system should relate cost data with
output/progress. In addition, efficient project implementation overall will require the identification of
subprojects which have slipped behind anticipated implementation schedules.
It is proposed that the PMU would be staffed with a Project Monitoring Consultant to assist DEA in its role in
overseeing project management and in providing the IDA with the required information on project
implementation progress and the requisite information on financial performance.
* Objectives
The computerized Project Financial Management System at the central level (GoI) should:
(a) provide timely and reliable information to DEA to enable them to monitor the project's progress
- 41 -



towards its agreed objectives;
(b) reflect component-wise, category-wise, and account-head wise expenditures;
(c) capture monthly, quarterly, yearly budget information, both financial and physical;
(d) produce financial reports that show actual versus budgeted expenditures for the current period and
cumulative to date;
(e) capture information regarding the method of procurement so as to monitor the limits of
procurement laid down in the Project Agreement;
(f) relate cost data with physical achievement data to monitor project progress; and
(g) generate quarterly consolidated LACI-based Project Management Reports, as agreed between the
Bank and DEA.
In addition, the consultant will:
(a) assist the subproject implementing agencies (SIAs) to prepare the periodic Project Management
Reports; and
(b) develop a quarterly summary report of subprojects which are slow moving relative to forecast
implementation schedules in the original Subproject Implementation Plans submitted by the subproject
implementing entities.
Responsibilities
The Consultants would carry out the following tasks:
A: An initial design phase consisting of:
(a) requirement analysis to identify project management needs (including an assessment of the
procurement capabilities of the subproject implementing agency) and the Bank's requirements,
culminating in the design of proforma PMRs to be produced by the subproject implementing entities
and the process for identifying and reporting on slow-moving subprojects; and
(b) design, development and operation of a simple computerized Project Financial Management
System at DEA during the entire duration of the project.
These tasks should be completed within one month of the commencement of the contract.
B: The Consultants will provide guidelines and assistance to the subproject implementing entities on a
continuous basis to enable them to comply with the project financial management requirements and
furnish timely reports to DEA.
C. Monitor and follow up with the subproject implementing entities for submission of monthly
PMR-based reports to DEA.
D. Recommend release of funds to subproject implementing entities based on regular progress reports
- 42 -



(release of project funds by DoE).
E. Compiling the monthly PMRs received from subproject implementing entities.
F. Sending quarterly PMRs, including providing a summary analysis (to be included in the quarterly
PMRs) which would highlight slow-moving subprojects, to DEA, for forwarding to the Bank.
G. Liaison with the auditors to obtain timely audit reports or follow up with the subproject
implementing entities for timely submission of audit reports
H. Provide assistance to subproject implementing agencies in procurement, including evaluation of
bids, in line with Bank procedures, at the request of the Bank and the DEA, and evaluate the
procurement capabilities of participating entitites, and recommend to the Bank whether they have
sufficient in-house expertise.
I. In their work the consultants will follow the Project Management Plan that has been drawn up by
DEA.
v  Methodology
The Consultants will extensively use prototyping methods for faster development of the simple
computerized Project Financial Management system and better client acceptability.
The Consultants will carry out the work of system design and software development in Delhi. The
Consultants will closely liase with DEA during the development stage, and brief them on weekly basis
during the implementation stage.
* Outputs
The Consultants will deliver the following:
(a) A simple computerized Project Financial Management system at Gol level;
(b) A simple document containing procedures to be followed by the states and the project
implementing agencies;
(c) Assistance to states and project implementing agencies on a continuous basis;
(d) Monthly PMRs to DEA and quarterly PMR to the Bank; and
(e) Assistance and follow up on annual audit reports.
* Duration and Approximate Timing
The person-months estimates are as follows:
For design, development and implementation    3 person-months
For regular assistance & follow-up
1st year    16 weeks (4 weeks per quarter)
2nd year   16 weeks (4 weeks per quarter)
-43 -



3rd year   12 weeks (3 weeks per quarter)
4th year    12 weeks (3 weeks per quarter)
5th year    12 weeks (3 weeks per quarter)
Additionally, every year 3 weeks for audit follow-up and chasing.
The total would therefore be approximately 24 person-months over the duration of the project.
Qualifications
The Consultants should have prior experience of at least five years in the design, development, and
implementation of computerized Financial Management Systems, and in project management involving the
coordination and management of a number of different subprojects. The Consultants should have a
qualified Chartered Accountant and an experienced Procurement Specialist as part of the assignment team.
Support
DEA will provide office space and utilities for the PMU including for the Project Monitoring Consultant.
-44 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDIA: Technical Assistance for Economic Reform Project
Procurement
Participating entities will prepare a Subproject Implementation Plan which will include a procurement plan.
This will list: (i) institutions/departments/persons which are responsible for procurement; (ii) project costs
by procurement arrangements; (iii) approaches to be used for procurement of consultants; and (iv)
timetable for the procurement of large consulting services. Workshops on procurement and disbursement
arrangements will be undertaken for subproject implementing agencies.
The Project Monitoring Consultant/s who will work in PMU under DEA for the entire project will, in
addition to their financial monitoring role, provide assistance to participating entities in preparing and
evaluating procurement documents as per the Bank guidelines. It is expected that this assistance will be
provided for agencies which have less experience of Bank procurement guidelines. Larger subprojects will
be expected to engage their own procurement consultants, unless the Project Monitoring Consultants certify
to the Bank that staff in the participating entity have sufficient expertise in the procurement of consultants
under the Bank's guidelines.
Procurement methods (Table A)
It should be noted that the proposed operation is a process technical assistance project, where most of the
expenditures will be identified and allocated during project implementation. Table A sets out the
procurement arrangements for the project as a whole. Individual subprojects will, based upon their scope
of work, use different mixes of goods and consulting services, and depending on the size of the consulting
contracts, will vary the extent to which they use QCBS versus other methods. However, overall, the
subprojects that have been appraised so far (for the Government of UP and the Ministry of Statistics and
Programme Implementation), and those which are either at an advanced stage of preparation (Governments
of Karnataka) or have been identified (Governments of Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Orissa and
Madhya Pradesh, and the Ministry of Urban Development), as well as those that will be identified during
the course of implementation, will in aggregate follow Table A and the limitations given below. The
project monitoring consultants in the PMU under DEA will monitor a subproject's procurement plans and
activities to ensure overall consistency with the limits set out in the PAD and the accompanying
Development Credit Agreement.
Quality- and cost-based selection (QCBS) will be in general be used for the procurement of consultants.
However, with the prior permission of the Bank, other competitive methods (e.g., Quality-Based Selection,
Selection under a Fixed Budget) can be used where these are more appropriate for the assignment. In
addition:
(a)    selection based on consultant's qualifications or single source selection can be followed for services
estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000
equivalent; and
(b)    hiring of individual consultants (for services up to $50,000 or less per contract) can be undertaken
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent.
Procurement plans have been developed for the first 2 subprojects that have been appraised.
- 45 -



Implementation plans for subsequent subprojects will include a procurement plan as well. There will be
quarterly reports on procurement, as part of the Project Management Reports, which will update changes in
timetables and in addition reflect information from subprojects that have been added. The General
Procurement Notice for the credit was published in the UN Development Business edition of March 16,
2000.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                            1.00           2.00           4.00          0.00           7.00
(1.00)         (2.00)        (3.50)         (0.00)         (6.50)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00          47.00          0.00          47.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (37.80)        (0.00)        (37.80)
4. Incremental operating            0.00           0.00           1.00          0.00           1.00
costs
(0.00)         (0.00)         0.70)         (0.00)         (0.70)
Total                            1.00           2.00          52.00          0.00           55.00
(1 .00)        (2.00)        (42.00)        (0.00)        (45.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Goods and Equipment
All ICB packages irrespective of value and first two NCB packages for each Participating Entity would be
subject to prior review by the Bank.
Procurement under NCB shall be governed by the following provisions:
[1] Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the Government of India Task Force
[and as amended from time to time], shall be used for bidding.
[2] Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper,
at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.
[3] No special preference will be accorded to any bidder when competing with foreign bidders,
state-owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enterprises from any given State.
- 46 -



[4] Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association, there shall be no negotiation of
price with the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder.
[5] Except in cases of force majeure and/or situations beyond control of the Borrower and
subproject implementing agency, extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the
prior concurrence of the Bank/Association [ i ] for the first request for extension if it is longer
than eight weeks; and [ ii ] for all subsequent requests for extension irrespective of the period.
[6] Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association.
The system of rejecting bids outside a pre-determined margin or " bracket " of prices shall not
be used.
[7] Rate contracts entered into by DGS&D will not be acceptable as a substitute for NCB
procedures. Such contracts will be acceptable for any procurement under National Shopping
procedures.
Procurement Information
Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(a) prompt reporting of contract award information by individual Subproject Implementing Agencies, to the
PMUs, for their respective components; and
(b) comprehensive quarterly reporting by the SIAs, again to the PMUs, on:
(i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and total cost; and
(ii) revised timings of procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract award and completion
time for individual contracts.
Technical Assistance, Studies and Training:
The following would be subject to prior review by the Bank:
I. Terms of reference for all the consultants;
2. Contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost more than US$100,000;
3. Contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost more than US$50,000;
4. All single source selection of consulting firms/organizations;
5. Amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
US$100,000 or above;
6. Assignments of critical nature, as reasonably determined by the bank; and
7. Amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
US$50,000 or above.
Post Review
Technical Assistance, Studies and Training:
Contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 and contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than US$50,000 shall be subject to post review
provided that the TORs have been cleared with the Bank.
-47 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expendture CtegoryAmountfin          ~    ~        USl~Iio  iacigecnae
Goods                                         6.50                 100% of foreign expenditures
100%/ of local (ex-factory) expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally.
Consultants services and Training             37.80           100% of foreipn and local expenditures.
hincremental Operating Costs                  0.70             80% until March 31, 2002; 60% from
April 1, 2002 until March 31, 2003; and
35% thereafter.
Total Project Costs                           45.00________________
Total                                         45.00_________________
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Withdrawals may be made on the basis of SOEs for contracts for:
(i) Goods valued at less than US$200,000 equivalent;
(ii) Consulting fimns valued at less than US$1I00,000 equivalent;
(iii) Individual consultants valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent;
(iv) Training; and
(v) Incremental operating costs.
PMR-based disbursements will commence from fifteen months after the date of effectiveness. Quarterly
PMRs will be submitted from six months after the date of effectiveness.
Special account:
The authorized allocation for the Special Account will be US$3.0 million and may be used for all
categories of expenditure.
-48 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDIA: Technical Assistance for Economic Reform Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
At PCD Stage Dec.
1998
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      8                             14
First Bank mission (identification)             02/01/99                     02/01/99
Appraisal mission departure                     04/15/99                      11/15/99
Negotiations                                    05/15/99                     03/15/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   08/15/99                     08/01/2000
Prepared by:
Overall project management and structure: Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance
(Government of India). Appraised individual subprojects have been prepared by (1) the Government of
Uttar Pradesh; (2) the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation.
Preparation assistance:
The agencies mentioned above undertook project preparation with their own funds.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Clive Harris                      Task Leader, Public Enterprise Reform, Infrastructure Regulation.
Lili Liu                          Co-Task Leader, Fiscal Reform.
V. J. Ravishankar                 Tax and Expenditure Management Reforms in UP.
Sanjay Vani                       Project Financial Management. Modernization of the Financial
Management and Audit Functions in UP.
William McCarten                  Tax Reforms in UP. Template for State Level Tax Reforms.
Valerie Kozel                     Poverty Monitoring Component in UP.
Robert Maurer                     Urban Sector Reform in UP. Capacity Building for Urban Managers and
Development of Manuals for Accounting Systems.
Meera Mehta                       Urban Sector Reform in UP. Capacity Building for Urban Managers and
Development of Manuals for Accounting Systems.
Edgar Saravia                     Public Enterprise Reform in UP.
Sunita Kikeri                     Public Enterprise Reform in UP.
Pinki Chaudhuri                   Project Design.
Robert Beschel                    Civil Service Reform.
S. R. Rajagopal                   Reform of UP Irrigation Department.
Lucio Monari                      Kamataka Power Sector Reform
D.C. Mishra                       Procurement
Paramita Dasgupta                 Project Design and Documentation.
Edgardo Favaro                    South Asia Macro Team Leader
- 49 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDIA: Technical Assistance for Economic Reform Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance (Govermment of India) - final draft Project
Management Plan, received March 15, 2000.
Government of Uttar Pradesh - final draft Subproject Implementation Plan, received March 15 2000.
Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation - final draft Subproject Implementation Plan
(Programme for Institution Development and Capacity Building, Government of India), received March 15
2000.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Electronic files in SASPR database
C. Other
Department of Programme Implementation - 166th Flash Report on Central Sector Projects, dated August
1999. Review of Infrastructure Performance during August 1999 and April - August 1999. Exception
Report on TRAL Sector Project dated August 1999. Project Implementation Status Report on Central
Sector Projects dated April - June 1999.
Governient of Rajasthan - through Project Development Company of Rajasthan - Infrastructure Project
Mapping Study for State of Rajasthan and development of legal and regulatory frameworks, and Integrated
Area Development Project.
Government of Madhya Pradesh - Proposal of the Government of Madhya Pradesh for Technical
Assistance from the World Bank to support Economic Reform, dated 24 June, 1999.
a) Civil Service Reform
b) Project Preparation
c) Urban Infrastructure Development
Government of Gujarat - Gujarat Infrastructure Development Board - A Proposal for Technical Assistance
from the World Bank, February 1, 2000.
Government of Orissa - Proposal for Technical Assistance and Implementation of Safety Net Programme
for the Affected Employees due to Restructuring of Public Enterprises in Orissa (India), July 9, 1999
Govenmment of Uttar Pradesh - Details of TA Proposals sent to Concemed Ministries, Government of
India, February 16th 2000
Governtnent of Himachal Pradesh - Sustainable Development of Catchments of Industrial Areas of HP - A
Concept Paper for the Assistance of the World Bank, dated January 5th 2000
Ministry of Urban Development - Proposal for World Bank TA for Capacity Building and Training
Programme for Municipal Managers and other Functionaries. Development of Manuals for Reforms in
Municipalities. Preparation of Manuals for Municipal Accounting System.
*Including electronic files
- 50 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDIA: Technical Assistance for Economic Reform Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                IBRD       IDA         Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
tN-PE-41264    1999 GOI                         WTRSHD MGMT HILLS II                      85.00      50.00        0.00      134.38      0.00       0.00
IN-PE-45050    1999 GOVERNMENT OF INDiA         RAJASTHAN DPEP                             0.00      85.70        0.00       84.31      0.00       0.00
IN-PE-45051    1999 GOI                         2ND NATL HIVIAIDS CO                      0.00      191.00        0.00      188.45      0.00       0.00
IN-PE-49537    1999 GOI                         AP POWER APL I                          210.00        0.00        0.00      199.83     11.83       0.00
IN-PE-50637    1999 GOI                         TN URBAN DEV II                         105.00        0.00        0.00      105.00      0.00       0.00
IN-PE-50646    1999 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA         UP SODiC LANDS il                         0.00      194.10        0.00      189.62      6.17       0.00
IN-PE-50651    1999 GOI                         MAHARASH HEALTH SYS                       0.00      134.00        0.00      127.99    131.01       0.00
IN-PE-10496    1998 GOI                         ORISSA HEALTH SYS                         0.00       76.40        0.00       72.55      1.99       0.00
IN-PE-10561    1998 GOI                         NATL AGR TECHNOLOGY                      96.80      100.00        0.00      189.78     14.20      0.00
IN-PE-35160    1998 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA         HARYANA POWER APL-I                      60.00        0.00        0.00       38.19     14.18       0.00
IN-PE-35169    1998 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA         U.P. FORESTRY                              0.00      52.94        0.00       44.86      4.44       0.00
IN-PE-35824    1998 GOI                         UP DIV AGRC SUPPORT                      79.90       50.00        0.00      124.48     16.35       0.00
IN-PE-35827    1998 GOI                         WOMEN & CHILD DEVLPM                      0.00      300.00        0.00      297.75      0.00      0.00
IN-PE-38021    1998 GOVERNMENT OFINDIA          DPEP III (BIHAR)                          0.00      152.00        0.00      136.06     23.92       0.00
IN-PE-49385    1998 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA         AP ECON RESTRUCTURIN                    301.30      241.90        0.00      469.19      5.45       0.00
IN-PE-49477    1998 CIL                         KERALA FORESTRY                           0.00       39.00        0.00       34.77     -0.74       0.00
IN-PE-50638    1998 GOI                         UP BASIC ED i                              0.00      59.40        0.00       29.75     -1.80       0.00
IN-PE-9979     1998 GOI                         COAL SECTOR REHAB                        530.00       2.00       15.00      433.64     40.82      40.82
IN-PE-10473    1997 GOI                         TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                      0.00      142.40        0.00      126.88     53.54       0.00
IN-PE-10511    1997 GOI                         MALARIA CONTROL                           0.00      164.80        0.00      148.70     29.73       0.00
IN-PE-10531    1997 GOI                         REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH1                      0.00      248.30        0.00      229.98     64.51       0.16
IN-PE-35158    1997 GOI                         AP IRRIGATION III                        175.00     150.00        0.00      252.96     32.20       0.00
IN-PE-36062    1997 GO                         ECODEVELOPMENT                            0.00       28.00        0.00       21.98      4.13       0.00
IN-PE-43728    1997 GOi                         ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA                      0.00       50.00        0.00       42.38     11.29       0.00
IN-PE-44449    1997 GOVT OF INDIA               RURAL WOMEN'S DEV                         0.00       19.50        0.00       16.86      7.12      0.00
IN-PE-45600    1997 GO                         TA SIs RD INFRA DEV                       51.50       0.00        0.00       32.49     17.99       0.00
IN-PE-49301    1997 GOVT OF INDIA               A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                       50.00     100.00        0.00      118.99     50.67       0.00
IN-PE-9995     1997 GOi                         STATE HIGHWAYS l(AP)                     350.00       0.00        0.00      327.32     42.32       0.00
IN-PE-10480    1996 GOI                         B SEWAGE DISPOSAL                        167.00      25.00        0.00      119.89     95.74       0.00
IN-PE-10484    1996 GOI                         UP RURAL WATER                            59.60       0.00        0.00       50.24      11.33      0.00
IN-PE-10485    1996 GOI                         HYDROLOGY PROJECT                          0.00     142.00        0.00       93.33     54.34       0.00
IN-PE-10529    1996 IL&FS                       ORISSAWRCP                                 0.00     290.90        0.00      155.24      5.97       0.00
IN-PE-35170    1996 GOI                         ORISSA POWER SECTOR                      350.00       0.00        0.00      322.28    102.28       0.00
IN-PE-35821    1996 GO                          DISTRICT PRIM EDUC2                       0.00     425.20        0.00      296.10     11.50       0.00
IN-PE-35825    1996 GOI                         STATE HEALTH SYS II                        0.00     350.00        0.00      259.15    116.27       0.00
IN-PE-39935    1996 GO                         ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                      200.00       5.00        0.00      178.91     99.84       0.00
IN-PE-43310    1996 GOI                         COAL ENV&SOCIAL MIT.                       0.00      63.00        0.00       44.70     15.58       0.00
IN-PE-10461    1995 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA         MADRAS WATER SUP li                      275.80       0.00      189.30       53.37    171.86       6.30
IN-PE-10463    1995 GOI                          INDUS POLLUTION PREV                    143.00      25.00         1.72     142.89     90.05      88.33
IN-PE-10464    1995 GOI                         DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                        0.00     260.30        0.00      123.72     42.05       0.00
IN-PE-10476    1995 GOVT OF INDiA               TAMIL NADU WRCP                            0.00     282.90        0.00      208.09    117.37       0.00
IN-PE-10489    1995 GO                          AP 1ST REF. HEALTH S                      0.00     133.00        0.00       63.06      12.17      0.00
IN-PE-10503    1995 GOI                         AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT                       0.00      59.50        0.00       33.18     28.00       0.00
IN-PE-10506    1995 GO                          MP FORESTRY                               0.00      58.00        0.00       15.79       9.67      0.00
IN-PE-10522    1995 GOI                         ASSAM RURAL INFRA                          0.00     126.00         0.00      95.78      42.46      0.00
IN-PE-10563    1995                             FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV                     700.00       0.00      250.00      216.97   -233.03       0.00
IN-PE-10448    1994                             FORESTRY RESEARCH ED                       0.00      47.00        0.00       20.08      38.61      5.28
IN-PE-10449    1994                             ANDHRAPRADESH FORESTRY                     0.00      77.40        0.00       21.22      12.04      0.00
IN-PE-10455    1994                             BLINDNESS CONTROL                          0.00     117.80         0.00      80.26      40.27      0.00
IN-PE-10457    1994                             POPULATION IX                              0.00      88.60         0.00      49.48      21.70      0.00
- 51 -



Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                               IBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
IN-PE-9870     1994 GOVT. OF INDIA               CONTAINER TRANSPORT                    94.00       0.00        0.00       67.92     63.93      -0.18
IN-PE-9964     1994 GOI                          WATER RES CONSOLID H                    0.00     258.00        0.00      136.97     78.91       0.00
IN-PE-10407    1993 GOI                          ADP - RAJASTHAN                         0.00     106.00        0.00       21.83     24.99       0.00
IN-PE-10408    1993 GOI                          BIHARPLATEAU                            0.00     117.00        0.00       48.54     55.32       0.00
IN-PE-10410    1993 GOI                          RENEWABLE RESOURCES                    75.00     115.00        0.00       6828      98.17       0.00
IN-PE-10416    1993 GO[                          PGC POWER SYSTEM                      350.00       0.00       75.00       41.79    112.19       0.00
IN-PE-10418    1993 GO!                          KARNATAKAWS & ENViS                     0.00      92.00        0.00       26.93     26.50       0.00
IN-PE-10424    1993 GOI                          NATL LEPROSY EUMINA                     0.00      85.00        9.07       24.37     33.63       9.36
IN-PE-9955     1993 GO!                          UTTAR PRADESH BASIC                     0.00     165.00        0.00       20.47     -5.30    -143.45
IN-PE-9959     1993 GOI                          RUBBER                                  0.00      92.00       36.58       22.87     57.04      16.27
iN-PE-9961     1993 GOI                          UP SODIC LANDS RECLA                    0.00      54.70        0.00       12.76      8.33       0.00
IN-PE-9977     1993 GOI & STATES                ICDSII (BIHAR & MP)                      0.00     194.00        0.00      116.76     91.36     101.67
IN-PE-10390    1992 GOI                          MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY                    0.00     124.00        16.18      32.36     48.55      31.87
IN-PE-9921     1992 GOI                          SHRIMP & FISH CULTUR                    0.00      85.00       48.51       15.83     63.78      15.17
IN-PE-9946     1992 GOI                          NAT. HIGHWAYS II                      153.00      153.00        0.00     150.69    103.15       0.00
IN-PE-9963     1992 GOI                          POPULATION Vil                         0.00      79,00        0.00       55.10     53.91       0.00
IN-PE-9877     1991 GOI                          DAM SAFETY                             23.00     130.00       60.03       25.35     84.06       3.39
IN-PE-9988     1991                              TECH EDUC II                            0.00     307.10       51.37       72.53    131.94      68.41
IN-PE-9982     1990                              NOR REG TRANSM                        485.00       0.00        0.00      173.96    173.95       0.00
Total:    5,169.90    7,364.84     752.76    7,998.18   2,791.80    243.40
- 52 -



INDIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
0                 IAAF                           0.00    0.00    6.50     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.11    0.00
1964n75/79/90      MUSCO                          0.00    0.00     1.08    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.08    0.00
1978/87/91/93      HDFC                          40.00    0.00    2.29     0.00   40.00    0.00    2.29    0.00
1981               Nagarjuna Steel                0.00    0.00    0.07     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00
1981/86181191193196  ITW Signode                  0.00    0.00    1.55     0.00    0.00    0.00      1.55    0.00
1981/86/89/94/92   TISCO                          1.58    0.00   15.37    0.00      1.58    0.00    15.37    0.00
1981/90/93         M&M                            0.17    0.00    6.49    0.67    0.17    0.00    6.49    0.67
1984/90/94         India Lease                    0.44    0.00    0.86     0.00    0.44    0.00    0.86    0.00
1984/91            Bihar Sponge                  12.21    0.00    0.68     0.00   12.21    0.00    0.68    0.00
1986               EXB-City Mills                 0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-NB Footwear                0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-STG                        0.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.34    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-TAN                        0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94      GESCO                          0.00    0.00    11.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    11.80    0.00
1986/93/94/95      India Equipment                0.33    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.33    0.00    0.00    0.80
1987               Hindustan                      2.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.87    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93      Titan Watches                  0.34    0.00    1.03    0.00    0.34    0.00      1.03    0.00
1988/90/92         Tata Telecom                   0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00
1988/94            GKN Invel                      0.00    0.00     1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.40    0.00
1989               AEC                            9.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.28    0.00      0.00    0.00
1989               UCAL                           0.00    0.00    0.63     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.63    0.00
1989/90/94         Tata Electric                 24.87    0.00    0.00    0.00   24.87    0.00      0.00    0.00
1989/91            Gujarat State                  2.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.17    0.00      0.00    0.00
1989/95            JSB India                      0.00    0.00    1.21    0.00    0.00    0.00       1.21    0.00
1990               HOEL                           0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.28    0.00
1990               TDICI-VECAUS II                0.00    0.00     1.23    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.23    0.00
1990/92            CESC                          39.49    0.00    0.00   53.60   39.49    0.00    0.00   53.60
1990/93/94/98      IL & FS                       16.50    1.81    6.23     5.00   16.50    1.81    6.23    5.00
1990/94            ICICI-IFGL                     0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00
1990/95            ICICI-SPIC Fine                0.00    0.00     1.88    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.88    0.00
1991/93            Triveni                        0.00    0.00    1.11     0.00    0.00    0.00      1.11    0.00
1991/96            VARUN                          0.00    0.00     1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.35    0.00
1992               Indus VCMgtCo                  0.00    0.00    0.01     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00
1992               Indus VCF                      0.00    0.00     1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.00    0.00
1992               Info Tech Fund                 0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.64    0.00
1992               SKF Bearings                   1.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.90    0.00      0.00    0.00
1992/93            Arvind Mills                   0.00    0.00    17.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    17.10    0.00
1992/94/97         Ispat Industries              30.35    0.00   15.41     0.00   30.35    0.00    15.41    0.00
1992/95            IL&FS Venture                  0.00    0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00       1.05    0.00
1992/96/97         NICCO-UCO                      6.13    0.00    0.50    0.00    2.13    0.00      0.50    0.00
1993/94/96         IndoRama                      18.75    0.00    11.98    7.50   18.75    0.00    11.98    7.50
1993/97            20TH Century                  11.66    0.00    0.80    0.44    11.66    0.00    0.80    0.44
1994               Centurion Growth               0.00    0.00    2.39     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.39    0.00
1994               Chowgule                      12.63    0.00    4.58    19.38   12.63    0.00    4.58   19.38
1994               Crdcap Asset Mgt               0.00    0.00    0.32     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.32    0.00
1994               DLF Cement                     7.70    0.00    4.94    10.63    7.70    0.00    4.94   10.63
1994               Gujarat Ambuja                 0.00    0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00    0.00       8.23    0.00
- 53 -






Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1994              Taurus Starshare              0.00    0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.17    0.00
1994/97           GVK                           26.66    0.00    7.45   30.19   26.66    0.00    7.45   30.19
1994/98           Global Trust                   5.00    5.00    3.19    0.00    5.00    5.00    3.19    0.00
1995              Centurion Bank                0.00    0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.87    0.00
1995              EXIMBANK                      15.91    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.91    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              GE Capital                     8.75    0.00    5.00    0.00    8.75    0.00    4.39    0.00
1995              Prism Cement                  14.06    0.00    5.02   10.50   14.06    0.00    5.02   10.50
1995              Rain Calcining                19.25    0.00    5.46    0.00   19.25    0.00    5.46    0.00
1995              Sara Fund                      0.00    0.00    6.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.60    0.00
1995/98           RPG Communicatns               0.00    0.00   11.25    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.25    0.00
1996              India Direct Fnd               0.00    0.00    7.47    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.52    0.00
1996              Indus II                       0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1996              Indus Mauritius                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              United Riceland               10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/99           MoserBaer                     20.05    0.00   10.14    0.00    2.30    0.00   10.14    0.00
1997              Asian Electronic               0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00
1997              CEAT                          20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Duncan Hospital                7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              EEPL                           0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00
1997              Owens Coming                  25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              SAPL                           0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00
1997              SREI                          15.00    0.00    3.00    0.00   14.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1997              Walden-Mgt India               0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00
1997              WIV                            0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.63    0.00
1998              IDFC                           0.00    0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.46    0.00
Total Portfolio:      427.09    6.81  238.54  138.71  394.34    6.81  219.76  138.71
Approvals Pending Commitrnent
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
- 54 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDIA: Technical Assistance for Economic Reform Project
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              South      Low-
In"i       Asia  income        Developmenit diamond*
Pooulation. mid-year (mill ions)                      979.7      1 ,3016   33                    Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas methiod, US$)                    440   ~430~   520  .
GNP (Atlas method, UJS$ billions)                     427.4       560      1,842
AvGrage annual growth, 1992-98
Population ().1.7                                                  1.9       1.7
Labor force (l2.0                                                 2.3        1.9     GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year availabale, 1992498)                                aiaerlmn
Poveryw N% of population below nationiat poverty iline)  35
Urban population (I% of total Populatlion)              28         2S        30
Life expectancy sit birth (Yeats)                        63        82        63                        J
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)               70.        75:]      68
Child malnutrition (% of chllrden under 5)               53        51        38                 Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of popu ation)                   81        77        72.
Illiteracy P% Of oopul5t ion age 1&)~                   44         47     .  31
Gross wirmary enrollment (% ofxcf,oot-apaq population)  100       100       107         -I''~ndia--     owncmgru
male                                                 109        110       112
Female                                                90.        90       102 
KEY E-CONOMIC RATIOS ansd LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978     IB88       199       199.
GOP (lUSS billions)                          134.6    289.7      407.9     419.7       cnmc ais
Gross domestic investment/GOP                22,3      24.3       23.4      21.~8Trd
Exports of goods and'services/GOP              8.2      6.3       11.1      11,3Trd
Gross domestic savings/GOP                   21.1      21.4       19.9      19.1
Gross national savings(GOP                   21.9      21.2       21.9      2017
Current account t,alance/GOP                  -0.1     -24        -1.~  ~1 .0        DomesticIvsmn
interest p3avmentslGOP                         0.3s     0.7,       a's       1. 1      aig                         nvsmn
Total debt/GOP                                12.2     20.9       23,1      23:4     Saig
Total debt service/exports                    13.0     28.5       18.8      17.0
Present value of debt/GOP                       -.        .       187
Present value of debtlexports                   -.        .      13.3
Indebtedness
(aevrage annual grow.tn)
GDP                                  5.0      5S.5      4.6        6.3       6,2
GNP per capita2.                               3.7      2.9        4,        4-4         -India    -Low-in come group
Exports of peoois and services       4.2      11.       6.2        4,5       7.0
STRUCTURE ot the ECONOMY
1978     1988       1997      1998      Growth of Investment and GDP I%)
(% of GOP)                                                                           35.
Agr'iculture                                  38.8     32.8       28.0      29.1
Industry                                      24.2     28.8       27.1      25.7     20
Manufacturinq                               16.5     16A        16.6      15.6    '5
Services                                      37.0     40.4      4.4.9      45.2
Private consumption                           69.3    656.4       68.8      69.9    A50
General government consumption                 9.6     12.3       11.3      11.0                 _GDl       ~GDP
Imports off goods and services                 7.4      9.3       14.5      14.0
(average annual prowtti)       ~~1978-88  1988-98     1997       1998     Growtht of exports and imports()
Agriculture                                    2.8      3.1       -1.9       7.2    40
Industrv                                       5.9      6.4        5.9       3.9    30-l .
Manufacturing                                6.1      6.9        4.0       3.6I                f
Services                                       6.2      7.3        9.0       8.3    2:
Private consumption                            5.1      5.6        1.6      10.3 
General govemment consumption                  7.7      4.6       10.6       6.5
Gross domestic investment                      4.8      5.8       13.1      .0.1            m3   94   us   Se   S7   96
Imports of goods and services                  7.3      9.9       11.7      10.9            -""Exports   -*-Imports
Gross national product                         4.9      5.8        4.7       6.3    -___________________
Nole: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show tour key indicators in the countrv tin bold) compared wvith its income-group) average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 55 -



India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1978     1988      1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domnestic prkces
(% chanqe)                                                                          1s
Consumer prices                                ..      9.3        7.0       7.0     O         .
Implicit GDP deflator                         2.5      8.1        6.4       9.4
Government finance
1% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                 ..    23.6       22.7      22.1             93   94   9s    96   97    9
Current budoet balance                          ..      1.0      -0.2       0.0             -,-GDP deflator *   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..   -10.0       -8.0      -9.3
TRADE
m1978    1988      1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ,,  13,970    35,013    34,298      so,smo
Tea                                            ..     421       505       482     400
Iron                                           ..    465        476       359
Manufactures                                  ..  10.727     27,348    27.530     30.000
Total imports (cif)                                  19,497    41.484    47.544     2ooo
Food                                           ..   1,203      1,845    264
Fuel and energy                               .. 3,009         8,217    6,435
Capital aoods                                 ..   4,803      9,796     9,497         0
92  93  94  95  99  97  98
ExDortpriceindex(1995=100)                      ..    111         100        96
Imoort prce index (1995=100)                    ..      88         94       90    1              ExpOrts      a Imports
Terms of trade (1995t100)                       ..    125         106       106    '
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ millions)                              1978     1988       1997     1998      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services               8,380   18,213    45,109    47,484    o      0 +
lmDorts of qoods and services               9.900   26.843    59,297    58,565        , ,
Resource balance                            -1,520   -8.630    -14,188   -11.081
Net income                                    223   -1,056    -3,166    -3,544
Net current transfers                       1,150    2,654     11,830    10,280                        !I
Current account balance                      -147   -7.032     -5.524    -4,345
Financing items (net)                         147    5,600      9,120     8,721
Chanqes in net reserves                         0    1,432      -3,596    4,376     |
Memo:
Reserves includinq qold (US$ millions)      7,299    5.467    30,314    33,206
Conversion rate (DEC, localIUSS)               8.2     14.5      37.2      42.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1978     1988      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                     IComposition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandinq and disbursed       16,466   60.477    94,404    98,232
IBRD                                        646    5.590      8,138     7,993                   G.4,329 A:7,993
IDA                                       3.972   12.019     17,912    18.562
Total debt service                           1,309    5,945    10,832    10,001                                     6: 8,562
IBRD                                        126      777      1,411     1,627
IDA                                          38      179        381     1,372
Composition of net resource flows                                                   IF 39,448                         C 288 
Officiai qrants                             449      406        379      307
Official creditors                          603    2,645       -312     1,727                                     D  3,965
Private creditors                           -10    5,741      2,840    -1,433
Foreinn direct investment                     0      287      3.557     2,462
Portfolio equitv                              0        0      1,828      -61                                E: 23,
World Bank program
Commitments                               1.829    2,645      1,755    2,055      A - IBRD                     E - Nlsateral
Disbursements                               507    2,472      1,372     1,421     8 - IDA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Pivate
Principal repayments                         84      383      1,071     2,193     C-IMF                        G- Shonrt-term
Net flows                                   423    2,088        302     -772
Interest pavments                            80      572        721      806
Net transfers                               342    1,516       -420    -1,578
Development Economirs                                                                                                  3/28100
- 56 -



