Report No. PID7954
Project Name                     India-TA for Economic Reform (@)
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       INPE59501
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Implementing Agency              Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 18, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         October 20, 1999
Projected Board Date             April 25, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
In 1991, a series of economic reforms were initiated by the GOI that
cumulatively helped in putting the Indian economy on a higher growth path.
The reform program has led to unprecedented, private sector-led growth.
India currently faces the challenge of deepening the reform program and
addressing unresolved problems.
The large public sector deficit remains the most critical macroeconomic
weakness, with the consolidated non-financial public sector deficit
accounting for high 10 percent of GDP, and with many states experiencing
fiscal crisis. Some of the poorer states, such as UP and Orissa, are
becoming increasingly indebted, and many states including some of the ones
with better track records, are on unsustainable paths; growing interest-to-
revenue ratios and increasing wage expenditure have been increasingly
crowding out developmental expenditure and non-wage maintenance expenditures.
Resolving this will require a program of measures at the state level which
will combine increasing the tax revenue base (the recent agreement between
the Center and the States to implement VAT in 2001 is significant in this
respect), cutting subsidies and closing down or privatizing loss-making
public enterprises, and prioritizing and improving the management of
government expenditure. At the same time, some reforming states, such as
Andhra Pradesh, are increasingly attempting to improve the efficiency of the
civil service, to introduce transparency and make the government more market-
oriented. This is increasingly a focus of reform in other states in India.
The inadequate provision of infrastructure, traditionally provided by the
public sector, has been recognized as a problem in India for some time. A
recent survey of international business investors (by the World Economic
Forum) placed India in last place out of 53 countries surveyed in terms of
the quality of its overall infrastructure. There is now more widespread
acceptance of the role of the private sector in the provision of
infrastructure services, and there has been some progress in developing
policy and regulatory frameworks that will attract the private sector.
However, the creation of the right frameworks and, in many cases, allocating



risks so that the public sector does not bear all contingent liabilities,
requires access to technical expertise which is not typically available
within the government.
In 1995, the Indian parliament passed the 74th constitutional amendment which
mandates increasing decentralization of political power and responsibilities
and devolution of fiscal authority to local bodies. While many state
governments are seeking to comply with this mandate, most local bodies
currently lack institutional capacity in technical, management,
administrative as well as fiscal terms to assume the increased
responsibilities envisaged for them under this amendment.
The reform agenda in India is a broad one, encompassing all levels of
government. The importance of moving towards fiscal sustainability and to
undertake comprehensive sectoral reforms, is not only more widely accepted
than before, but also increasingly being implemented.
2. Objectives
The project's objective is to assist reform-minded government agencies to
design, and possibly implement, selected reforms, by improving access to
technical expertise and advisory services. The project is designed as a
"process" where a facility is established and funds are allocated to a
subproject after it has been prepared and appraised. At present subprojects
amounting to about 15 percent of the credit have been appraised and
subprojects for about another 60- either are in advanced preparations or have
been identified. Given the growing momentum in India of competition for
reforms by various states and municipalities, the "process" design ensures
flexibility to meet the demands for technical assistance when reforms by
states, municipalities, and central government agencies are implemented at
different paces.
Within the common objective of market-oriented reforms, each subproject is
expected to have its own focus and outcome. For example, subprojects from
the Government of Uttar Pradesh (UP) aim at, inter alia, civil service
reform, tax reform, and privatization within the broader context of the
Bank's fiscal and governance reform adjustment loan for the state which is
under advanced preparation.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The value-added of the Bank's support comes from the Bank's work with
reforming states and involvement in many of the sectors to be covered under
the proposed TA, including investment loans and, potentially, program loans
for fiscal adjustment. This will allow the integration of work under the
proposed TA facility with these loans. In addition, the Bank will be able to
encourage the dissemination of ideas between the states, and achieve some
economies of scale in effort through learning from pioneer states/urban local
bodies (ULBs) efforts in the design and implementation of reform measures.
4. Description
The project is designed as a "process" TA operation, where a facility is
established and funds are allocated to a subproject after it has been
prepared, appraised, and approved. It is expected that all three levels of
- 2-



government (central, state, and also municipal via state governments on their
behalf) will access the facility, although reforming states are expected to
be the main beneficiaries of the project, as is evidenced by the present
pipeline of applications for funding under the credit.
Subprojects which are assessed as being eligible under the criteria listed in
B3 above would be appraised, approved, and then funded on a "first-come,
first-served" basis. Under-utilized funds of a subproject, vis-a-vis their
targeted utilization, would be returned to the facility. The MOF will on-
lend the funds to states or to municipalities which will be represented by
their respective states at the usual on-lending terms.
The total IDA credit is US$45 million. At present two subprojects amounting
to about 15 percent of the credit have been appraised. Two subprojects
accounting for about additional 40 percent are in advanced preparations. The
proposals of five subprojects are under review and two more subprojects are
being initiated -- it would be difficult to estimate the size of these six
subprojects that are under review and initiation, but they could account for
about 15 to 20 percent of the total credit. The final allocation of the
credit among all subprojects is expected to materialize by the end of the
third year of the five-year implementation period.
a       Subprojects that have been appraised
Two subprojects have been appraised. The first one is from the state of
Uttar Pradesh, a reforming state with which the Bank has developed
partnership for poverty reduction (request for funding: $4.0 million; total
cost US$4.5 million). The requested funding would cover the following
components (details see Annex 2): financial audit; expenditure management and
the creation of a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework; monitoring of poverty
levels in the state; tax reform; public enterprise reform; implementation of
urban property tax reform, assessment of urban finances and institutional
arrangements for service delivery and development of city development
strategies for two cities; and civil service reform. This cluster of
proposals is aimed in part at developing and implementing a broad program of
reform in the state to be supported by the Bank's fiscal and governance
adjustment loan that is under advanced preparation.
The second subproject is from the Department of Statistics and Programme
Implementation (GoI), for US$1.8 million support (total project cost $3.0
million). The subproject is to implement a program of capacity-building and
knowledge management for improving project implementation and management
particularly in the public sector but also in the private sector. Annex 2
also gives a more detailed description of this subproject.
a       Subprojects in an advanced stage of preparation
Two subprojects are in advanced stage of preparation. The first one is from
the state of Karnataka, a reforming state with which the Bank is establishing
a partnership for poverty reduction. The Government of Karnataka has
recently initiated a program to reform and privatize the power sector.
Funding would be provided under this proposed operation to undertake studies
essential for the implementation of reform and privatization in the sector,
including (a) developing load forecasting, investment and production planning
models to analyze options for reconfiguration of the distribution business
-3 -



and to mitigate environmental impacts; (b) preparation of financial
restructuring plans, asset and liability transfer schemes for the unbundled
companies, business plans for the distribution companies and preparation of
financial information required for filing tariff applications with the
Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission; (c) a strategy for the
privatization of the distribution business in Karnataka, including the
development of bidding documents; (d) assistance in the corporatization of
the sector, and the preparation of key background documents such as the grid
code, distribution code, power purchase agreements, etc. (e) institutional
strengthening for the state transmission company; and (f) social and
communication aspects of the power sector reform program. It is estimated
that the total project cost of this would be around US$10 million.
The second subproject is from the Government of Gujarat to support private
provisions of infrastructure (PPI) and the strengthening of regulatory
capacity for PPI (see annex 2 for details). Gujarat's vision 2010 has
identified total infrastructure investments over the next 10 years and
envisioned 80 percent of which coming from private participation. The total
request for funding (US$16 million) covers the following three components:
(a) feasibility studies/prefeasibility studies for PPI (US$12 million), (b)
technical assistance to strengthen the regulatory capacity for PPI in the
state; and (c) financial assistance to market projects to be privatized (US$1
million).
If the proposal is appraised and approved, the TA project would not directly
finance any PPI investments, but implement the reforms for PPI and to
strengthen regulatory capacity for PPI. A recent survey of international
business investors (by the World Economic Forum) placed India in last place
out of 53 countries surveyed in terms of the quality of its overall
infrastructure. Given that Gujarat is one of the most advanced states in the
introduction of private operation of and investment in infrastructure, other
states can benefit from experience and lessons to be learnt from this
subproject, hence accelerating poverty reduction by removing one of the most
critical constraints.
a       Subprojects whose proposals are under review
In line with the process nature of the project, a number of state governments
and a central government agency have submitted proposals requesting funding.
These proposals are being reviewed. They are:
(a)     a proposal from the Government of Orissa for the implementation of
public enterprise reform and establishment and support of a reform cell
within the Government;
(b)     a proposal from the Government of Madhya Pradesh concerning municipal
sector reform, civil service reform, and strengthening capacities in project
identification and management;
(c)     a proposal from the Government of Rajasthan for assistance in the
development of institutional mechanisms for efficient delivery of urban and
other infrastructure services, including private provision;
(d)     a proposal from the Government of Himachal Pradesh for assistance in
strengthening capacities for environmental management; and
(e)     a proposal from the Ministry of Urban Development, GOI for support in
the areas of development of manuals for reforms in municipalities, manuals
for municipal accounting systems and training programs for municipal
- 4 -



managers, as well as the documentation of best practice in urban
infrastructure and finance.
The following table gives estimates of the project components that have been
appraised:
Government of Uttar Pradesh
Department of Planning and Statistics, GoI
Unallocated
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                               10
IBRD
IDA                                      45
Total Project Cost                       55
6. Implementation
The "process" structure of this proposed TA operation requires the careful
design of implementation arrangements that will provide the required levels
of oversight but not be overly cumbersome. Due to the multi-sector, multi-
theme, and multi-agency nature of this project, coordination among various
subprojects' implementing agencies is a key issue to the success of the
project. Other key issues are to: (a) adequately appraise the subprojects,
including an accurate assessment of the expected costs of the subproject; (b)
track expenditures under each subproject to identify any under-utilization of
funds allocated, or any requirements for additional allocation of funds based
upon new estimates of the cost of subprojects; (c) allow early identification
of subprojects that are being implemented slowly relative to the timetables
in their Subproject Implementation Plans, and (d) ensure financial reporting
consistent with Bank norms.
a       Subproject Identification
State governments that would like to access the credit would initially send a
concept note to the relevant GoI line ministry describing the proposed
activities. The GoI line ministry would then send the proposal to the
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA), Ministry of Finance (MOF), who would
then forward it to the Bank for formal consideration. A municipal government
would first send a proposal to the state government who would then forward it
to the GoI line ministry.
As far as the central government ministry is concerned, the relevant GoI
ministry would submit a proposal to DEA, either for activities it will
undertake itself or for a dependent agency. DEA will then forward this to
the Bank; to be eligible for consideration, all central agencies/ministries
will require the relevant clearance depending on the size of their
subproject, as well as confirmation that other relevant clearances have been
obtained.
The above procedures are consistent with the current practice in India
concerning clearance within the three levels of the government.
a       Subproject Appraisal
-5-



After discussion with the DEA and within the Bank, it was decided that the
responsibility for final appraisal of a subproject would remain with the
Bank. The proposed project is different from financial intermediary or
social fund types of loans/credits where the Bank will not resume any role of
appraisal. In this case, the involvement of the Bank was felt appropriate
because:
(a)     many proposals are likely to come from states where the Bank is engaged
in a dialogue on policy reforms, which the proposed TA will be supporting.
For example, the subproject proposed by the Government of UP is to support
the overall fiscal and governance reforms that have been initiated by the
Government and will be supported by an adjustment operation of the Bank. The
involvement of the Bank in assisting the Government developing a proposal for
technical assistance can take advantage of the Bank as a knowledge bank and
maximize strategic coordination among various instruments of Bank assistance
to the state;
(b)     the broad-ranging nature of the reforms makes it difficult to identify
any single entity within the Government who could feasibly do this; and
(c)     the Bank's primary role in this is knowledge management, while the
process of appraising subprojects is a process of working with government
agencies to disseminate knowledge. The process of appraisal is the most
important first step in setting up the framework for eventual implementation
of proposed technical assistance activities.
It was agreed with DEA that states or central ministries, with which the Bank
has little engagement, can access the facility in the maximum amount of
$150,000 total over a three-year period following effectiveness, to get
assistance to define the design, concept, and scope of the proposal, as well
as terms of references (due to the conflict of interests, states and
ministries would need to be mindful of not using the same set of consultants
doing both TORs and actual work specified by the TORs). After these works
are completed, the Bank will review and appraise the proposal. The Bank, as
a knowledge Bank, will actively use its network roster of consultants to help
the states or other entities to access consulting services in helping
producing a strategically focused proposal.
The guiding principles for assessing whether a proposed subproject would be
eligible for support were listed in section B3.
a       Accessing the Proposed Facility
Following satisfactory appraisal of the subproject, state governments and
central agencies/ministries would need to do the following to access the
credit:
(a)     Sign a participation agreement with DEA regarding counterpart financing
and project implementation, which would serve as the on-lending agreement;
(b)     Provide a policy letter outlining the type of reforms that the state is
considering, so that the program of TA could be placed within this context;
and
(c)     Complete and submit a Subproject Implementation Plan (SIP) to the
Project
Management Unit under the DEA for forwarding to the Bank. The SIP will cover
the scope of work, associated terms of reference, implementation
- 6 -



arrangements, relevant procurement and disbursement timetables, and
monitoring indicators for usage of and impact of the activities to be
financed under the credit.
For municipal governments, the state government would need to access the
credit on their behalf and would therefore sign the participation agreement
and present the policy letter and SIP. Where the immediate user of the TA is
an urban local body within a state, the SIP will also outline the
implementation mechanisms, including provision of funding to the urban local
body.
State governments or central agencies may make a number of applications over
time for use of the facility. Each subproject would require a SIP; however,
the participation agreement would not make reference to an amount or
subprojects and therefore, once it has been signed, could cover a number of
subprojects developed over time. Performance in utilizing existing
allocations of funds would be taken into account when considering fresh
subprojects.
a       Project Management and Implementation
DEA at the MOF will be responsible for overall project management,
supervision, and quality control, as well as for assessing that the
subproject proposed had obtained the relevant clearances. Each subproject is
required to have its own subproject's implementing agency managing the
implementation of the subproject.
The centralized coordination, facilitation, and financial management will
place extra burden on the already heavy mandate of DEA. Therefore, to assist
DEA in its management of the project, a Project Management Unit (PMU) will be
established, consisting of one or two consultants whose combined experience
will need to cover project management, procurement, and financial management.
The consultants would be funded under this proposed credit.
The responsibilities of the PMU, which would physically be located in DEA,
are to:
(a)     coordinate all subproject implementing agencies (SIAs);
(b)     explain to applying entities the procedures and criteria of accessing
the facility, and provide them with standard templates of forms and other
documents;
(c)     ensure that financial reporting meets Bank standards and provides the
requisite information to SIAs for project management. To achieve this the PMU
would develop and operate a simple computerized Project Financial Management
System, based in DEA, for the duration of the project;
(d)     provide assistance to SIAs to ensure their compliance with project
financial monitoring requirements and that they furnish timely reports to
DEA, including ensuring that monthly project management reports are submitted
to DEA and the Bank;   (e)       recommend the release of funds to SIAs based on
regular progress reports;
(f)     compile the project management reports so that DEA can send quarterly
reports to the Bank, which will include an identification of slow-moving
subprojects;
(g)     based on quarterly reports of SIAs, the PMU would write up a summary
identifying progress, critical issues in subproject implementation and
-7 -



bottlenecks;
(h)     liaise with project auditors to ensure that there is timely submission
of audit reports;
(i)     provide assistance to SIAs, as directed by DEA, in preparing and
evaluating procurement documents as per the Bank's guidelines; and
(j)     coordinate with all SIAs on all project activities.
Annex 5 provides further details on the financial reporting aspects of the
work of the PMU.
To facilitate project implementation, appropriate template TORs will be
developed for areas where some standard and consistent design of reforms
across different states/entities are possible. For example, in the areas of
tax reform and municipal reform, a set of template terms of references (TORs)
for state sales tax reform and municipal finances and management have been
prepared. These are to provide states interested in these areas with a
comprehensive approach that covers the key technical, institutional and legal
issues in these areas. It is expected that the TORs will make it easier for
states to develop subprojects for funding under the proposed operation. As
and when appropriate template TORS for other areas will be developed.
a       Subproject Management and Implementation
Each subproject would have its own implementation structure, which would
include individuals within the entity who would oversee the technical aspects
of the work. Larger subprojects would be expected to demonstrate adequate
procurement and financial management capacity; if necessary entities could
use funds under the credit to hire consultants to assist in these last two
functions. The SIP would identify the implementation structure for each
subproject. At the state government level, a nodal point would be identified
- which could be the department for external aid, existing Project Management
Units (PMUs) which handle Bank projects or the implementing department as
appropriate. Once the state began to access funds from the TA facility, the
nodal agencies would be responsible for disbursement, procurement and
financial management issues and would interact with the PMU in DEA to ensure
the required information reaches the Bank.
a       Duration of Project and Reviews
This project will have a five-year life from credit effectiveness. Annual
reviews of fund utilization will commence no later than January 2001, in
order to identify issues and problems. Given the mixed record of technical
assistance operations in India, it is proposed that this project have two
"mid-term" reviews, the first to be carried out no later than 18 months after
the date of effectiveness, and the second by 24 months after the first
review. The Participation Agreement signed between DEA and a participating
entity includes provisions relating to releasing funds back into the facility
if they are not committed under a contract by certain dates. This will allow
other users to access the funds before the expiry of the project. It is
expected that all subprojects would be appraised within 3 years of
effectiveness, allowing an additional 2 years for their implementation.
7. Sustainability
The overall sustainability of the activities funded by the TA will depend
- 8 -



upon commitment to and implementation of economic reform measures. The main
risks and suitable measures to mitigate them are outlined below. It should
be noted that each Subproject Implementation Plan will include an assessment
of the risks along with the monitoring indicators.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
TA projects in India have had mixed results. The TA project for power sector
development did not disburse well. However, more recently, the State Roads
Infrastructure Development TA project (the "State Roads TA") has been
disbursing vigorously and has built up a robust pipeline of projects seeking
external, mainly Bank, financing, although it has to be remembered that this
is a rather specialized TA. TA projects currently under implementation in
India offer the following lessons:
(a)     The State Roads TA points to the need to have adequate resources devoted
to overall project monitoring, to ensure that the required information for
financial management is collected and that a check is kept on to what extent
committed funds have been disbursed under the loan; based upon this, PMU
consultant(s) will be hired to track implementation progress and develop and
maintain the financial monitoring systemthat will be required for management
of this operation;
(b)     The State Roads TA also shows that clear identification up-front of
eligibility criteria for access to TA funds, and in particular clear outputs
from the TA (i.e. projects prepared for external financing, largely from the
Bank), provides incentives for efficient usage of the TA. Also, this TA
highlights the issue of borrower commitment and action plan to act upon the
reforms identified as key by the consultants/studies; we have sought to
address this through the proposed operation requiring that a participating
entity prepare a policy letter and an implementation plan for its subproject,
which establishes performance indicators and monitorable outcomes;
(c)     Delays in the procurement of consultants due to a lack of understanding
of the different evaluation methods are frequent in India. This project will
attempt to mitigate this by having support provided by PMU for smaller
subprojects, with larger subprojects requiring a procurement agent funded
under the component unless special procurement expertise can be accessed
within the implementation unit. A workshop on procurement is planned for
March.
Reviews of "process" TA projects by OED indicate two important lessons for
this proposed project:
(a)     Effective management and supervision of the project is vital.    In
particular, the less specification there is prior to Board approval, the
greater the need for monitoring and constant evaluation; attention has been
paid in the design of this TA to mechanisms to provide to the Bank and DEA
the necessary information on project financial flows and implementation
through the use of PMU. In addition this project (multi-sector, multi-agency,
and multi-theme) requires intense supervision and hence above the average
budget;
(b)     Borrower and user ownership of the TA has to be concretely established
at appraisal. In the context of this operation, this means that the
-9-



willingness on the part of state governments to borrow from the central
government has to be identified as part of appraisal. This has been
confirmed by the appraisal of the subprojects prepared by the Government of
Uttar Pradesh and the Department of Statistics and Programme Implementation,
as well as from the Governments of Rajasthan, Orissa, Himachal Pradesh,
Karnataka, and Gujarat, and the Ministry of Urban Development.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         An adverse impact on the environment is unlikely as
this is a technical assistance operation which will be funding consultancy
services and studies, training and minor purchases of equipment. As such, no
major environmental issues are involved. However, each subproject will be
structured to ensure that any issues that require attention under the Bank's
operational guidelines will be addressed.
11. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Clive G. Harris
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 91 11 461 7241
Fax: 91 11 461 9393
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending Fabruary 25, 2000.
- 10 -



