Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N-045 IN
Interim Fund
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund
established with funds contributed
by certain members of
International Development Association
pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184
of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association, as 
amended
Dated May 19, 2000
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N-045 IN
INTERIM FUND 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 2000, between INDIA, 
acting by its President (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association) as administrator (the Administrator) of 
the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with 
funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 (the 
Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of 
the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as amended.
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the 
Interim Fund has been established, constituted of the 
funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting 
Page  2
as Administrator of the Interim Fund, in accordance 
with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
and
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as 
to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the 
Project), has requested the Administrator to assist in 
the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator 
has determined that such assistance would be in 
accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund 
Resolution.
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the 
basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as 
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, 
dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in 
the General Conditions means the International 
Development Association acting as Administrator of the 
Interim Fund referred to in the Preamble to the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, 
“Credit” and “Credit Account”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement”, “Interim Fund Credit” 
and “Interim Fund Credit Account”, respectively;
(c)
A new paragraph 9(c) is added to Section 
3.04 to read:
“If the Association shall at any time 
receive less than the full amount then due and 
payable to it under the Development Credit Agreement, 
the Association shall have the right 
to allocate 
and apply the amount so received in any manner and for 
such purposes under the 
Development Credit Agreement 
as the Association shall in its sole discretion 
determine”;
(d)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General 
Conditions, the term “Association” shall also mean the 
International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity; and
(e)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, 
in the second sentence, the word “radiogram” with the 
word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end 
of the said Section to read:
Page  3
“Deliveries made by facsimile 
transmission shall also be conformed by mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General 
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means categories 
(1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the 
expenditures for goods and services referred to in 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
“Fiscal Year” means the Fiscal Year of 
the Borrower starting on April 1 of a calendar year 
and ending on March 31 of the following calendar year;
(d)
“Participating Entity” means any 
Department or agency of the Borrower and any State of 
the Borrower that enters into a Participation 
Agreement with the Borrower for implementing 
Subprojects;
(e)
“Participation Agreement” means an 
agreement entered into between the Borrower and a 
Participating Entity for the purpose of financing 
Subprojects;
(f)
“Project Management Report” means each 
report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02(b) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
“PMU” means Project Management Unit 
within the Department of Economic Affairs of the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower.
(h)
“Special Account” means the account 
referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(i)
“Subproject” means a Subproject prepared 
by a Participating Entity in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit pursuant to a Participation Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General 
Conditions to the Project implementation entity shall 
be deemed to be a reference to each Participating 
Entity.
ARTICLE II
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend 
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to thirty-three million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR33,600,000).
Page  4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Interim Fund 
Credit may be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect 
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 
31, 2005, or such later date as the Administrator 
shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the 
Association a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from 
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as 
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: 
(i) 
from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) 
to the respective dates on which amounts shall 
be withdrawn by the Borrower 
from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) 
at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied 
from the 
next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of 
this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid:
(i) 
at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request;
(ii)
without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and
(iii)  in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of 
that 
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the 
Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on 
the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service 
charges shall be payable semiannually on April 15 and 
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) 
Page  5
and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 
commencing October 15, 2010 and ending April 15, 2035. 
Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on April 15, 2020 shall be one and one-fourth 
percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: 
(i) 
the Borrower’s per capita gross 
national product (GNP), as determined by the 
Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and
(ii) 
the Bank shall consider the 
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Administrator may, subsequent to the 
review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after 
due consideration by the 
Administrator of the development of the Borrower’s 
economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above 
by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Interim Fund 
Credit shall have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months 
or more after the 
date on which 
the Administrator notifies the Borrower that the 
events 
set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that 
there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the 
Administrator may revise the modification referred to 
in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Administrator, such revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of 
terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association 
determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if 
so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms 
Page  6
of repayment to conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States 
of America is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its 
commitment to the objectives of the Project, and, to 
this end shall carry out the Project through 
Participating Entities with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial and administrative standards, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project;
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit available to Participating 
Entities under Participation Agreements to be entered 
into between the Borrower and each Participating 
Entity satisfactory to the Administrator.
(c)
Without prejudice to any other provision 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that each 
Participating Entity receives adequate funds in a 
timely manner for anticipated expenditures under its 
Participation Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall duly perform all its 
obligations under each Participation Agreement. Except 
as the Administrator may otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not take or concur in any action which would 
have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving any Participation Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
(e)
The Borrower shall maintain the PMU and 
the project monitoring consultants referred to in 
Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement with adequate 
resources, staff, facilities, powers and functions in 
order to manage, monitor and supervise the 
implementation of the Project, and to assist 
Participating Entities in the preparation and 
implementation of Subprojects, including procurement, 
disbursement, auditing and accounting, financial 
management and reporting arrangements.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 
3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Administrator 
hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the 
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) shall be carried out by the Borrower and 
the Participating Entities.
Page  7
Section 3.04. (a) At the request of the 
Administrator, the Borrower shall exchange views with 
the Administrator with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement and the Participation Agreements, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Interim Fund 
Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall promptly inform the 
Administrator of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Interim Fund Credit, or the performance by the 
Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement and 
the Participation Agreements.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.06 
of the General Conditions and without limitation 
thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of the guidelines 
acceptable to the Administrator, and furnish to the 
Administrator not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Administrator and the 
Borrower a plan as to ensure the sustainability of the 
Project; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on 
said plan.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall provide to 
the Administrator all reports that it receives from a 
Participating Entity under a Participation Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall by April 30 of each 
year during the implementation of the Project, 
beginning with April 30, 2001, provide an annual 
report to the Administration setting out, inter alia, 
the progress of the Project, utilization of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit under the sub 
projects, any implementation problems, proposed 
corrective measures, and other matters as the 
Administrator may request. 
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate 
to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing 
basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to 
the Administrator the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Administrator, and furnish to the 
Administrator, on or about July 1, 2002, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of each such report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
Page  8
(c)
review with the Administrator by August 
1, 2002, or such later date as the Administrator shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Administrator’s views on the 
matter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account were made on the basis of Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with sound financial 
management and accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures are retained until at least one 
year after the Administrator has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year 
in which 
the last withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account was made; 
and
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s 
representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts 
referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of this Section 
and those for the Special Account for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as 
soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such 
Fiscal Year the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator 
shall 
have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors 
as to whether 
the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such 
other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the 
Page  9
Administrator may from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall carry out a 
time-bound action plan acceptable to the Administrator 
for the establishment of a financial management system 
for the Project in order to enable the Borrower not 
later than six months after the Effective Date, to 
prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Administrator, each of which:
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources 
and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for 
the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately 
expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit during 
the period covered by 
said report and expenditures proposed to be financed 
out 
of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress 
in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report; and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of 
procurement under the Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with the format 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Administrator not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for 
such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association and the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the 
General Conditions, the following additional events 
are specified:
(a)
Any Participating Entity shall have 
failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
relevant Participation Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred 
after the date of this Agreement, an extraordinary 
situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that any Participating Entity will be able 
to perform its obligations under the relevant 
Participation Agreement.
Page  10
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the 
General Conditions, the following additional event is 
specified, namely, that the event specified in 
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following events are specified 
as additional conditions to the effectiveness of the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the 
meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that the Borrower has established a PMU 
and has appointed project monitoring consultants under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator; 
and 
(b)
the Borrower has entered into at least 
one Participation Agreement with a Participating 
Entity.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after 
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. In the event that the Executive 
Directors of the Association decide to terminate the 
functions of the Association as administrator of the 
Interim Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund 
Resolution, all of the rights and obligations of the 
Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by 
the Association in accordance with the Interim Fund 
Resolution and such decision of said Executive 
Directors, as of a date to be notified by the 
Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional 
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary 
or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic 
Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are 
specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, 110001
India
Cable address:
Page  11
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting 
through their duly authorized representatives, have 
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year 
first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ R. S. Sharma
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the 
interim trust fund established
with funds contributed by 
certain members of 
International Development 
Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of 
the Board of Governors of International 
Development Association, as 
amended
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of 
items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Page  12
Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of 
the Interim Fund Credit to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
      Amount of the
  Interim Fund Credit
   % of
Allocated (Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
    4,900,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expendi-
tures for other items 
procured locally
(2)
Training and 
  28,200,000
100%
consultants’ services
(3)
Incremental operating
     500,000
80% through March 31, 
costs
2002; 60% from April 1,
2002 through March 
31, 2003; and 35% 
thereafter
TOTAL
  33,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than 
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” 
means the salaries and allowances of additional staff, 
and the costs of operation and maintenance of 
additional offices and vehicles, incurred for 
Subprojects. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 
above:
(a)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect 
Page  13
of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR2,300,000, may be made on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after October 1, 
1999; and
(b)
no withdrawals shall be made for a 
Subproject under any of the Categories set out in the 
table in paragraph 1 above unless the Subproject has 
been approved by the Administrator in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the 
Participating Entity sponsoring such Subproject has 
entered into a Participation Agreement with the 
Borrower.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures 
for:
(a) 
goods under contracts not exceeding 
$200,000 equivalent each;
(b) 
services under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each for employment of 
consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent each for 
employment of individual consultants, respectively;
(c) training; 
and
(d) 
incremental operating costs,
all under such terms and conditions as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars 
a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of 
India, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator.
2.
After the Administrator has received evidence 
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Administrator shall have 
received:
(i) 
the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this 
Agreement; and
(ii) 
a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex 
A to 
this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Administrator of a 
Project Management Report pursuant to Section 4.02(b) 
of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be 
Page  14
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to 
this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be 
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each 
payment made by the Borrower out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of 
this Schedule, the Administrator shall not be required 
to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Administrator determines at any 
time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant 
to Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Administrator determines at any 
time that all further withdrawals should be made by 
the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to 
furnish to the Administrator within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Administrator pursuant to said Sections in respect 
of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the 
Special Account; or (B) the records, accounts and 
financial statements reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure.
5.
The Administrator shall not be required to make 
further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Administrator shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  
Upon such notification, the Administrator shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further 
deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator determines at any 
time that any payment out of the Special Account was 
made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Administrator, provide 
such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Administrator shall so request, refund to the 
Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
Page  15
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator determines at any 
time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following such determination, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to 
the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made 
pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Interim Fund 
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are not 
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term 
“Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that unless the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Administrator 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR4,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Administrator a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which in 
the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  
On the basis of each such request, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator 
requests for deposit into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Administrator shall specify. Prior to 
or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Administrator the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
Page  16
withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures.  Each such deposit into the Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account under one or more of 
the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Administrator shall not be required to make 
further deposits into the Special Account, once the 
total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit, 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall follow such 
procedures as the Administrator shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the 
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are 
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Administrator may otherwise 
specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals 
from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall be 
deposited by the Administrator into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement.  Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Administrator from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal 
of an amount of the Interim Fund Credit, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to 
the lesser of: 
(a) 
the amount so requested; and 
(b) 
the amount which the Administrator has 
determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said 
Project Management Report to be remaining in the 
Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of 
$6,000,000.
Page  17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the 
Borrower and the Participating Entities in the 
formulation and implementation of economic reform 
measures focussing, inter alia, at reorienting public 
sector expenditures towards priority social sector 
spending linked to poverty alleviation and at 
facilitating private sector led growth.
The Project consists of the following part, 
subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower 
and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time 
to achieve such objective:
Part A:
Subprojects
The financing of the preparation and 
implementation of Subprojects.
*          *          *          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 
30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 1 of the “Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Administrator in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this 
Section, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of 
the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to 
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower 
and to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this 
Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 
equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
Page  18
procedures satisfactory to the Administrator.
2.
International/National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or 
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of 
international/national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods estimated to cost $10,000 equivalent or 
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured by 
direct contracting in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of 
Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid 
for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the 
Project shall be furnished to the Administrator for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with an annual procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Administrator, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods 
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of 
$200,000; and (b) the first two contracts for goods 
under each Participation Agreement awarded under 
paragraph 1 of Part C of this Section I the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by 
paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of the Introduction and 
Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section II. 
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Page  19
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of 
consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to 
consultants’ services to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph. The short list of consultants for 
services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of 
Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
or Single Source Selection Services estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, 
may:
(i)
be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines; or
(ii)
with the Administrator’s prior 
agreement (in the case of services estimated to 
cost $1,000 equivalent or more per 
contract), be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or 
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Other Procedures
With the Administrator’s prior agreement, 
assignments for services, not covered by paragraphs 1 
and 2 of Part C of this Section II, may be procured in 
accordance with competitive methods under the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the 
Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any 
requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  20
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services 
shall be undertaken in accordance with an annual 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Administrator, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the 
equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given.
(d)
Without limitation on any other 
provisions of this paragraph 2, terms of reference for 
all consultants’ services irrespective of value shall 
be furnished to the Administrator for its prior review 
and approval, and the contracts for such services 
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by 
paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of 
Subproject On-lending Terms
1.
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the 
Interim Fund Credit available to Participating 
Entities for financing Subprojects in accordance with 
the Borrower’s standard arrangements for development 
assistance to the Participating Entities.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects and Participating 
Entities
2.
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, a Subproject and a Participating Entity that 
sponsors such a Subproject and in respect of which an 
application is made to the Administrator pursuant to 
Page  21
the provisions of paragraph 5(a) of this Schedule 
shall meet the following eligibility criteria:
(a)
The Subproject supports activities that 
in the judgement of the Administrator shall achieve 
one or more of the following objectives:
(i)
an improvement in the efficiency 
and transparency of national, state and local 
governments;
(ii)
a reorientation of the role of the 
public sector within the context of 
market-oriented reforms;
(iii)
an increase in the efficiency of 
the fiscal system; 
(iv)
the enhancement of the role of the 
private sector in providing essential 
public services; and
(v)
the enhancement of the capacity of 
the Borrower to manage and implement the 
Project.
(b)
Subject to clause (a) of this paragraph, 
activities in support of the preparation of a 
Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit provided: 
(i) 
the aggregate amount of such 
financing shall not exceed the equivalent of  
$150,000; and
(ii) 
the proposals for financing such 
preparation activities are received by the 
Administrator no later than September 30, 2003. 
Upon the completion of the 
preparation activities, the relevant Participating 
Entity sponsoring such 
Subproject shall be eligible to request financing out 
of the proceeds of the 
Interim Fund 
Credit in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The appropriate governmental authorities 
of the Borrower and Participating Entity have provided 
all required clearances/approvals for implementing the 
Subproject and these are documented in the Subproject 
Implementation Plan referred to in paragraph 3(b) 
hereof.
(d)
Eligible Participating Entities may be 
any Department or agency of the Borrower and any state 
of the Borrower.
(e)
The Subproject is sponsored by a 
Participating Entity that has entered into or has 
agreed to enter into a Participation Agreement with 
the Borrower.
(g)
A Participating Entity that has entered 
into a Participation Agreement for financing one or 
more Subprojects from the proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit shall be eligible to request financing for 
additional Subprojects in accordance with the 
Page  22
provisions of this Schedule.
Appraisal and Approval of Subprojects
3.
(a)
A Participating Entity shall provide to 
the Administrator through the Borrower a concept note 
for each proposed Subproject setting out, inter alia, 
the proposed activities, the financing requirements, 
evidence of compliance with the eligibility criteria 
set out in paragraph 2 hereof, and the relevance of 
the proposed Subproject within the overall reform 
strategy of the Participating Entity.
(b)
Once the Administrator communicates its 
approval of the concept note for a proposed 
Subproject, the Participating Entity shall:
(i)
prepare a Subproject 
Implementation Plan containing, inter alia, scope of 
activities, associated terms of 
reference, financing and implementation 
arrangements, relevant procurement and 
disbursement timetable, auditing and 
accounting procedures, financial management 
arrangements reporting mechanisms, 
and monitoring indicators to evaluate impact; 
(ii)
prepare a policy letter setting 
out the program of reform that the 
Participating Entity is undertaking and the 
relevance of the proposed 
Subproject to such reform program;
(iii)
permit the Administrator to 
appraise the Subproject under arrangements 
satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
take into account the Administrator’s 
comments in finalizing such Subproject Implementation 
Plan and policy letter; 
and
(iv)
furnish to the Administrator for 
its review, and approval, pursuant to 
paragraph 5(a) of this Schedule, such Subproject 
Implementation Plan and 
policy 
letter.
4.
No expenditures for goods or services required 
for a Subproject shall be eligible for financing out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit unless the 
Subproject shall have been approved by the 
Administrator and such expenditures shall have been 
made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on 
which the Administrator shall have received the 
application and information required under paragraph 5 
(a) of this Schedule in respect of such Subloan.
5.
(a)
When presenting a Subproject to the 
Administrator for approval, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Administrator, together with:
(i)
the Subproject Implementation Plan 
and policy letter referred to in paragraph 
3(b)(iv) of this Schedule, including a 
description of the financing 
arrangements for the Subproject and the expenditures 
proposed to be financed 
out of the 
Page  23
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit;
(ii)
evidence that the Subproject meets 
the eligibility criteria set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; and
(iii)
such other information as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request.
(b)
Applications and requests made pursuant 
to the provisions of subparagraph (a) and of this 
paragraph 5 shall be presented to the Administrator on 
or before 
December 31, 2003.
