Report No. PID5751
Project Name                     Peru-El Nino Emergency Assistance Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Multi-sector
Project ID                       PEPE54667
Borrower                         Republic of Peru
Implementing Agencies            Sector Ministries and Public sector bodies
through a Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
Date of this PID                 October 17,1997
Appraisal Date                   October 21, 1997
Board Date                       December, 1997
The El Nino Emergency
El Nino is an abnormal tropical Pacific Ocean weather pattern
occurring every 4-11 years. It results in an elevation of surface
water temperatures that causes significant changes in rainfall
followed by devastating floods and droughts on a global scale,
including South America.
The most recent El Nino hit Peru in 1982/83: there was massive
flooding in Northern areas and a severe drought in the South.
Several sectors were affected, including the fishing industry,
agriculture and urban infrastructure. About 6 million people were
directly touched by it. GOP estimates the direct losses in the
range of $500 million to $1 billion; the subsequent reconstruction
effort, which required several years, was at least as costly.
Modern forecasting models developed over the last decade by the
international scientific community have improved our understanding
of the El Nino phenomenon. They are still unable, however, to
provide accurate forecasts of the likely evolution of the 1997/98 El
Nino much beyond 3 months.
Surface water anomalies in excess of 5 C have been observed since
May of this year off the Peruvian coast. If these anomalies
continue until late December 1997 or early 1998, they will likely
result in heavy rainfall in Peru's northern coast and may also
result in below-normal rainfall in southern Peru's Altiplano.
In contrast to 1982/83, when no significant steps were taken to
prevent the effects of El Nino, GOP decided to take early steps to
reduce the potential consequences. On June 19, 1997, 9 departments
were declared in a state of emergency; their number was subsequently
increased to 14, comprising Tumbes, Piura, Cajamarca, Lambayeque, La
Libertad, Ancash, Arequipa, Moquegua, Tacna, Puno, Ayacucho,
Apurimac, Huancavelica and Cusco. GOP ordered an end to the fishing
of anchovies, whose numbers were falling rapidly. In addition, GOP
began to carry out an aggressive program of preventive works aimed



at reducing the impact of possible floods in the north and possible
drought in the south. It is expected that by end-December 1997, GOP
will have spent and/or committed about $150 million. In order to
keep aggregate public expenditures under control, GOP had to
temporarily reallocate budgetary resources away from their original
uses.
It is in this context that GOP would like to ensure that
expenditures originally programmed in the 1997 budget be carried out
and, as a result, has requested aid donors (mainly the Bank and
IDB): (a) to provide financial resources that would allow it to
carry out all the originally programmed expenditures without
unfavorable macroeconomic consequences; and (b) to make available
additional resources for use during the emergency and reconstruction
phases.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
Prevention phase (approximately June-December 1997). Bank's
assistance would allow GOP to carry out, without resorting to
deficit financing or using reserves, all the expenditures that had
been originally included in the 1997 budget. This assistance would
be provided as retroactive financing of expenditures related to the
prevention phase.
Emergency phase (approximately January-April 98). Given the Bank's
limited experience in relief work, it is expected that specialized
international and local relief agencies would play the lead role in
this phase. GOP, however, has requested Bank's help to finance some
items (to be defined) that may be required during the emergency phase.
Reconstruction phase (May 98-December 99). Bank involvement in this
phase would help ensure the technical and economic soundness of
GOP's investment reconstruction program, and would help address
issues related to the sustainability of some of the ongoing and
proposed activities. GOP has requested Bank involvement in those
sectors where the Bank has had a long standing presence and
development role. Finally, the Bank is expected to help strengthen
Peru's national, regional and local capacity to forecast the impact
of future El Nino phenomena and prepare for disaster relief in the
future.
Objectives of the Proposed Operation
The main objectives of the emergency operation would be:
-- Help reduce the loss of human life and a deterioration of
living standards that might result from the floods and/or droughts
that may result from the 1997/98 El Nino.
-- Help reduce the loss of, or damage to, economic and social
infrastructure that might result from similar events.
-- Help increase Peru's capacity to forecast and respond to
future El Nino phenomena.
-2-



Project Description
The proposed emergency project has been structured in three phases:
(a) the prevention phase; (b) the emergency phase; and (c) the
reconstruction phase.
The prevention phase consists of two components:
(a)     Flood-protection measures in northern Peru, e.g., river
dredging, strengthening of river defenses, cleaning/construction of
storm drainage canals in urban and rural areas, bridge
strengthening, construction of temporary housing, temporary
resettlement of about 10,000 families, protection of archeological
sites, etc. This component includes civil works as well as heavy
machinery required to carry them out; and
(b)     Drought-mitigation measures in southern Peru's Altiplano:
(i) rehabilitation of existing water and irrigation systems (deep
tubular wells in small irrigated areas, small shallow intended to
produce water for human and animal consumption, and existing
irrigation infrastructure that is not at present fully operational);
(ii) a forage production program aimed at ensuring the availability
of food for animal consumption so as to prevent the decimation of
livestock herds;
(iii) a seed production that would provide an ample supply of good
quality seed for the sowing season following the drought; and
(iv) a labor-intensive program aimed at strengthening the
sustainable agricultural capacity of drought-prone areas in the long
run, while providing income to poor people affected by the drought
and who would otherwise migrate out of the areas in search of
employment elsewhere.
The emergency phase, which is expected to consist of standard
disaster response activities during the immediate aftermath (90-100
days) of the disaster being declared, may include a small amount of
Bank financing for goods and services to be defined.
The reconstruction phase. The full impact of the 1997/98 El Nino
event will not be ascertained before 1998 (floods in northern Peru
and/or drought in southern Peru's Altiplano). Until then, it is not
possible to define the scope and content of a rehabilitation
program. Only its broad outline can be identified at this point,
taking into account the damage caused by the 1982/83 El Nino. In
view of this, this phase is likely to include the reconstruction and
restoration of critical infrastructure and services:
(a) hospitals, health posts, schools;
(b) roads (primary, secondary and rural), bridges and urban streets;
(c) irrigation and drainage systems;
- 3-



(d) water supply and electricity; and
(e) river training, defenses and embankments.
Investment subprojects to be financed under the reconstruction phase
would have to meet the following eligibility criteria:
(a) the damaged infrastructure and/or service existed before the
disaster and was used for its intended purpose;
(b) there is a clear "cause-and-effect" relationship between the
damaged physical assets and the occurrence of the El Nino event;
(c) a competent agency has been identified that will execute the
subproject, with adequate resources, and on the basis of an
acceptable timetable;
(d) subproject design is supported by an acceptable technical study,
an economic analysis, and an environmental assessment;
(e) direct beneficiaries and/or stakeholders of the subproject have
been involved in the process leading to the identification and
design of the subproject; and
(f) to the extent possible, labor-intensive technologies have been
built into subproject design and execution modality.
The reconstruction phase would also include a small institutional
support component (e.g., scientific equipment, specialized
consulting services and training) aimed at:
(a) strengthening local institutions to enable them to better
monitor and predict the local impact of future El Nino events; and
(b) strengthening the capacity of national, regional and local
institutions to prepare for, and respond to, future similar
disasters.
Project Implementation
Individual sector ministries (and their regional offices) will be
responsible for project implementation. Their activities would be
coordinated by a single unit, the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
which is to be created as soon as possible . The PCU will have
administrative and technical review functions, and operate with a
small but highly qualified staff, comprising accounting,
administrative and information systems specialists as well as
technical specialists acceptable to the Bank, and may be supported
by a consulting firm. It is crucial that the PCU be established in
a way that will ensure its ability effectively to coordinate the
implementation activities of sector ministries. Among other things,
the PCU will: (a) coordinate effectively the implementation of the
project across different sector ministries; (b) request, allocate
and monitor the use of budget resources, as needed to implement the
project; (c) possess adequate authority as required to make day-to-
- 4 -



day decisions regarding project implementation without further
consultation; and (d) ensure that subproject selection takes place
according to agreed-upon criteria. It is probable that the PCU will
be located in the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF).
Confirmation of this decision will be required at appraisal
(expected to begin around October 21, 1997), together with a
specific timetable for the establishment of its internal systems and
its staffing.
Other public sector ministries and authorities participating in the
implementation of the project are the following: Ministries of Civil
Defense (INDECI), Transport, Communications and Housing (MTCV),
Agriculture (MINAG), Education, and Health; Instituto Nacional de
Desarrollo (INADE), National Food Program (PRONAA), Regional
Governments; Consejos Transitorios de Administracion Regional
(CTARs); Banco de Materiales; and municipal authorities.
Procurement
Procurement modalities will be defined during appraisal, taking into
account the scope and nature of this operation. The proposed
operation would finance mainly civil works (some of which would be
undertaken by force account), equipment and consulting services.
Project Costs
Project costs have been estimated as follows:
(a) Prevention phase: US$ 150 million. This estimate is based on
the investment requirements presented by sector ministries and
public sector bodies in early July 1997 to address the emergency.
(b) Emergency phase: to be estimated.
(c) Reconstruction phase. No reliable estimates of the emergency
reconstruction phase can be made until the extent of any damage
resulting from the 1997/98 El Nino event is known. At this time,
all of them are based on the direct damage sustained during the
1982/83 El Nino event (in the range of $500 million to $ 1 billion).
Although the prevention-related investment that is being undertaken
at present should reduce the extent of any damage, it is important
to bear in mind that the replacement cost of the region's productive
and infrastructure assets is much higher now than in 1982/83. In
sum, while it is difficult at this time to estimate the cost of the
damage that may result from the 1997/98 El Nino event, a figure of
$500 million is not unreasonable, assuming that this year's episode
will be "moderate" to "severe" in intensity.
Project Financing
GOP has requested US$ 150 million each from the Bank and the IDB to
help finance this project. GOP has also requested aid from Japan.
Prevention phase, consisting mostly of retroactive financing of
prevention measures currently being carried out by GOP:
- 5 -



Source          US$ million
IBRD            50
IDB             50
GOP             50
Total            150
Emergency phase: up to US$ 1 million Bank financing has been
requested by GOP.
Reconstruction phase. As noted above, the financing requirements of
the emergency reconstruction phase have been preliminarily estimated
at US$ 500 million. The financing plan would be as follows:
Source          US$ million      Sectors (tentative)
IBRD            100              Agriculture, drainage
(urban and rural),
housing, energy, fisheries,
health, education.
IDB              100             Transport (roads, ports,
airports), water and
sewerage, historic monuments.
Japan           TBD              TBD
GOP             TBD              TBD
Participation.
Subprojects being carried out during the prevention phase were
identified by GOP on the basis of proposals submitted by CTARs.
These proposals, in turn, relied heavily on technical information
(risk maps based on the experience of the 1982/83 El Nino event) and
took into account, to the extent allowed by the urgent nature of the
emergency, inputs from local communities in relevant areas.
A full-scale disaster preparedness simulation took place in August
97. It was organized by the Instituto Nacional de Defensa Civil and
UNDP observers were in attendance. This simulation indicated an
acceptable degree of participation by stakeholders. It also put in
evidence the adequate coordination among the many agencies whose
involvement would be crucial during the emergency. Finally, the
simulation helped identify organizational and logistical weaknesses
and, as a result, helped map out the steps required to overcome
them.
Participation of local communities and beneficiaries will be ensured
during the reconstruction phase, particularly in the identification
of subprojects.
Sustainability
-6-



Most subprojects in the prevention phase have been, or will soon be,
carried out by sector ministries and agencies. The same approach
will be followed during the reconstruction phase. As a result, the
subprojects will become part of the current activities of each
ministry and/or agency, and will be subject to the standard
operation and maintenance practices currently in force in the public
sector.
Risks
The main uncertainty associated with the proposed operation is that
the subprojects being carried out during the prevention phase might
not be exactly those that would have been carried out with the
benefit of hindsight, i.e., had it been possible for GOP to know
ahead of time the exact location and severity of the effects of the
1997/98 El Nino event. This risk is, to some extent, mitigated by
the fact that the bulk of expenditures GOP is carrying out are
justifiable even in the absence of a severe El Nino event this year
for the following reasons:
-- they constitute backlog/deferred maintenance which should
have been undertaken at an earlier date and are belatedly being
carried out;
-- the bulk of works are aimed at bringing infrastructure back
to original specifications or to overcome original shortcomings in
design; and
-- they will help reduce the negative consequences of future
El Nino phenomena.
It is worth noting that the institutional component of the proposed
project aims to address precisely this risk by reducing, in future,
the high level of uncertainty associated with El Nino-related
predictions.
Another risk is that subproject design, including the associated
technological choices, may not be adequate. This risk is relatively
small with regard to flood-protection civil works in northern Peru.
It is likely to be higher, however, with regard to drought-relief
activities in the southern Peru's Altiplano; these activities will
be thoroughly reviewed during appraisal.
Another risk is that the quality of construction may be suboptimal,
as might result from inadequate force account procedures, the use of
labor-intensive technologies without sufficient quality supervision,
etc. These risks will be addressed during the reconstruction phase
by means of an Operational Procedures Manual, using a similar
approach to the design of social investment funds projects.
Economic Analysis
During the prevention and emergency phases, no standard economic
analysis is possible nor required. It is, however, reasonable to
assume that the significant participation of stakeholders has by and
- 7 -



large led to sound subproject selection. The appraisal mission will
look at the adequacy of unit costs being practiced.
During the reconstruction phase, the Operational Procedures Manual
will require an economic justification of individual subprojects.
Social and Environmental Considerations
The main social and environmental issues arising from the
preparation of this project are the following:
(a) Temporary (or, in some cases, permanent) resettlement of up to
10,000 families living in vulnerable locations in several urban
centers (e.g. Tumbes, Piura, Paita and Negritos);
(b) Minor environmental damage by heavy machinery used for river
training, dredging, widening of urban drainage canals and river
defense works; and
(c) Ecological damage from silting to coastal mangroves in the
Tumbes area.
Lessons Learned from similar emergency operations
For the prevention and emergency phase:
-- Keep it simple, well focused, avoid unnecessary add-ons.
-- Rapidity of response is of the essence.
For the reconstruction phase:
-- Need for a strong coordinating and/or executing agency with real
authority.
-- Experience with the design of social investment funds will be
helpful.
-- Full design of this phase does not have to be completed before
Board.
-- It can be part of the activities leading to the start of the
reconstruction phase.
These lessons are being integrated into the design of the proposed
emergency operation.
Contact Point:                    The World Bank InfoShop
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458 5454
Fax No.: (202) 522 1500
- 8 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending November 14 1997.
Full technical name: El Nino-Southern Oscillation (ENSO)
Until end-August 1997, the coordinating role during the prevention phase was exercised
by the Comision Nacional de Emergencia (CONAE), headed by the Minister of the Presidency.
-9-



