Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-7194-PE
TECHNICAL ANNEX
PERU
EL NINO EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT
November 11, 1997
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure SMU
Environment and Socially Sustainable Development SMU
Country Management Unit 6
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Oct. 29, 1997)
Currency Unit          =          Nuevo Sol (S/.)
US$1.00                =          S/. 2.68
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS USED
CIMMYT        -      Intemational Center for Improvements in Maize and Wheat
Centro Internacional de Mejoramiento de Maiz y Trigo
COFOPRI    -         National Commission for Formalization of Informal Properties
CONAE         -      National Council for Emergency Assistance
DHN           -      Direccion de Hidrografia y Navegaci6n
ENSO          -      El Nino Southem Oscillation'
EMP           -      Environment Management Plans
ERFEN         -      Estudio Regional del Fen6meno del NiPo
FAO           -      Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP           -      Gross Domestic Product
IBRD          -      Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           -      Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDB           -      Inter-American Development Bank
IGP           -      Instituto Geofisico del Peru
IMARPE        -      Instituto del Mar del Perui
IMF           -      Intemational Monetary Fund
INDECI        -      National Institute of Civil Defence (Instituto Nacional de Defensa Civil)
INIA          -      Instituto Nacional de Investigaci6n Agropecuaria
INRENA        -      Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales
MEF           -      Ministry of Economy and Finance
MIPRE         -      Ministry of the Presidency
NCB           -      National Competitive Bidding
NOAA          -      National Oceanic and Atmospheric Agency
01            -      Office of Investments, Ministry of Economy and Finance
PRASTER       -      Programa de Aguas Subterr6neas y Tecnificaci6n de Riesgo
PRONAMACH-           Programa Nacional de Manejo de Cuencas Hidrogrdficas
RRT           -      Reconstruction and Resettlement Team
SENAMHI    -         Servicio Nacional de Metereologia e Hidrologia
QCBS          -      Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
UNA           -      Universidad Nacional Agraria
UNDP          -      United Nations Development Program
USAID         -      United States Agency for International Development
The Memorandum and Recommendation of the President and the accompanying technical annex for this operation was
prepared based on the findings of two missions that visited Peru during September 22-30 and October 13-27, 1997. The
core project preparation team consisted of Eugene McCarthy, LCSFP (Team Leader), Max Pulgar-Vidal (AFTT2), Jyoti
Shukla (LCSFP), Matthew McMahon (LCSES), William Partridge (LCSES), Roberto Laver (LEGLA), Efraim Jimenez
(LCOPR), Issam Abousleiman (LOAEL), Oswaldo Patiiio (Lima Resident Mission), Carlos Emanuel and Jose Hermosa
(consultants). Document production was undertaken by Maria Antonieta Gonzalez (LCSFP) and Mercedes Aleman
(LCSFP) provided administrative support. The management team for this operation includes: Regional Vice President:
Shahid Javed Burki, CMU Director: Isabel Guerrero, Sector Directors: Sri-Ram Aiyer and Maritta Koch-Weser, Sector
Leader: Susan Goldmark and Lead Economist: Ernesto May. Peer reviewers are: Armando Araujo (OCSPR), Jelena
Pantelic (SASIN) and Robert Watson (ENVDR); and external peer reviewer: NOAA (J. Michael Hall, Director).



PERU
EL NINO EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Peru.
Implementing           Sectoral ministries, related public sector enterprises, municipal
Agencies:              authorities, local communities in affected regions.
Coordinating Agency:   Office of Investments in the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
Poverty Category:      Not applicable.
Program Objective
Category:              Emergency Assistance Loan.
Environment
Category:              B
Loan Amount:           US$150 million.
Terms:                 Repayment in 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based U.S. dollar
single currency loans.
Commitment Fee:        0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, less any waiver,
beginning 60 days after signing.
Estimated Costs:       Prevention Phase: US$100 million
Reconstruction Phase: US$330 million
Financing Plan:            IBRD          IDB           GoP           Total
Prevention Phase      US$ 30 m.   US$ 30 m.   US$ 40 m.    US$ 100 m.
Reconstruction Phase  US$ 120 m.   US$ 120 m.   US$ 90 m.    US$ 330 m.
TOTAL                US$ 150 m.   US$ 150 m.   US$130 m.   US$ 430 m.
Note: If reconstruction costs are higher than $330 million, the
Government may seek additional financing from bilateral and multilateral
sources.
Maps:                  IBRD-29186 and IBRD-29188.
Project Identification
Number:                PE- PE 54667






PERU
EL NINO EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION ..............................................................1
BACKGROUND TO THE "EL NINO" EVENT ..............................................................1
The El Nino Phenomenon ...................................................                                                         1
The Impact of the  1982/83 El Nio ...................................................                                              3
The 1997/98 El Nifo ...................................................                                                           3
Reliability of Forecasts ...................................................                                                      4
The Government's Strategy for dealing with the 1997-98 El Niuo ................................... 5
The Bank's Response ...................................................                                                           6
PROJECT DESCRIPTION ..............................................................6
Project Objectives ...................................................                                                            6
Project Design Alternatives Considered ...................................................                                        6
Description ...................................................                                                                    7
A. The Emergency Prevention Component ...................................................                                8
B. Emergency Operations ...................................................                                           11
C.  Reconstruction Phase....................................................................................
D. Institutional Support Component .............................................                                      16
Environmental Impact .............................................                                                               19
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ..............................................................                                                   19
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .......................................... 20
Project Implementation Arrangements ...................................................                                          20
Procurement Arrangements ...................................................                                                     21
Review by the Bank ..................................................                                                            22
Disbursement Arrangements ...................................................                                                   23
Financial Management and Reporting Requirements ..................................................   24
Monitoring .................................................... 24
Supervision Plan ..................................................                                                             25



- ii 
APPENDICES
APPENDIX 1 -FLOOD CONTROL WORKS IN THE NORTHERN REGION WORKS
POTENTIALLY ELIGIBLE FOR RETROACTIVE FINANCING FROM THE PREVENTIVE
PHASE OF THE PROJECT ...............................................................................  27
APPENDIX 2 - DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANTS TO UNDERTAKE INDEPENDENT
AUDIT AND VALUATION OF CIVIL WORKS UNDERTAKEN ON FORCE ACCOUNT AND TO BE
FINANCED RETROACTIVELY ...............................................................................  30
APPENDIX 3 - DROUGHT COMPONENT SIERRA SUR ............................................................................... 37
APPENDIX 4 - DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR A COMPREHENSIVE DISASTER FORECASTING,
PREVENTION, RELIEF AND MITIGATION STRATEGY ............................................................................... 47
APPENDIX 5 - INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHFNING AND CAPACITY BUILDING ..................................... 50
APPENDIX 6 - RESETTLEMENT ...............................................................................  54



PERU
EL NINO EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
INTRODUCTION
I.    This Technical Annex accompanies the Memorandum of the President for a proposed El
Ninio Emergency Assistance Loan to Peru. The proposed Project will support the Government's
on-going efforts to mitigate the potentially severe impact of the 1997-98 El Nifo event. In the
event of such an occurrence, the Loan will support reconstruction and other restoration activities.
BACKGROUND TO THE "EL NIMO" EVENT
2.    The El Niho Phenomenon. Local fishermen along the coasts of Peru and Ecuador have
observed for decades the periodic appearance of a warm ocean current that would extend
southward along the west coast of South America. As it occurred around Christmas they termed
this current "El Nifio", or Spanish for the Christ child. Over the years, the term "El Nifio" has
come to be reserved for these exceptionally strong warm intervals that have disrupted the local
fishing industry and have brought heavy rains and flooding to this coastal region. It has also been
increasingly recognized as a phenomenon which has an impact throughout the world, bringing
drought to South-East Asia, Southern Africa and North-Eastern Brazil while bringing heavy
rainfall to the normally arid coastline of the Americas.
3.    In the scientific community, El Nino is more formally known as the El Niflo-Southern
Oscillation (ENSO), as climate scientists now link the advent of these warm ocean currents to a
related atmospheric event called the "Southern Oscillation". The ENSO then is described as a
disruption of the ocean atmosphere system in the tropical Pacific, during which trade winds relax
in the western Pacific, with a resulting rise in sea surface temperature and a drastic decline in the
primary productivity of the food chain, which affects commercial fisheries in the region. Rainfall
follows the warm water eastward, with associated flooding in Peru and drought in Indonesia and
Australia. The eastward displacement of the atmospheric heat source overlaying the warmest
water results in large changes in the global atmospheric circulation, which in turn forces changes
in weather in regions far removed from the tropical Pacific. There is now a growing body of
evidence suggesting that this ENSO phenomenon contributes to, or is responsible for, anomalous
weather patterns throughout the world, sometimes of disastrous proportions.
4.    The El Nifno phenomenon occurs every few years, though not on a predictable cycle and
with varying magnitude and impact. Observations of conditions in the tropical Pacific are
considered essential for the prediction of the short term (a few months to one year) climate
variations. To provide the necessary data, the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Agency
(NOAA) operates a network of buoys which measure temperatures, currents and winds in the
equatorial bands.



5.    During the last century more than a dozen El Nifio events have affected the South
American Coast (See Table 1). Most of them raised water temperatures not only along the coast
but in a belt stretching 5000 miles across the Equatorial Pacific. The weaker events raised sea
temperatures only 1-1 1/2°C and had only minor impacts on the fisheries; the stronger events, like
the El Nifio of 1982/83, raised temperatures 5-10°C and had a major impact not only on the local
weather and marine life but also, it is believed, on climatic conditions around the globe.
Table 1: El Nifuo Events in the Last Century
1891         Very intense, heavy rains.
1925-26      Very intense.
1930         Weak.
1932         Weak.
1940-41      Intense (started September).
1957-58      Intense.
1963         Weak.
1965         Moderate.
1972-73      Intense, significant change in the
quantity and types of marine life off the
coast of Peru.
1976         Moderate.
1982-83      Very intense. Apparent off the coast of
Peru in September.
1992         Moderate.
1994         Moderate
Source: National lnstitute of Civil Defense, Peru.
6.    Compared to the 1982-83 episode, the 1997 El Nin'o has accelerated rapidly to a level (of
sea surface temperatures) already as high as those reached at the peak of the 1982-83 cycle. A
comparison of sea surface temperatures in the months leading to the 1972-73, 1982-83 and the
1997-98 El Nifio events is shown in the chart accompanying the Memorandum of the President
for this operation. Based on the behavior to date and statistical correlations with trends in the
past, it can be predicted with a high degree of confidence that the phenomenon will persist well
into the first half of 1998 and lead to significant economic and social dislocation. A recent
Climate Outlook Forum convened on October 28, 1997 in Lima, Peru reaffrmed that the El Nifho
event was expected to remain strong over the forecast period of December 1997-March 1998.
The Forum was comprised of representatives of Meteorological Services and climate researchers
from universities and international research institutes. A statement issued by the Forum is
available in the Project files.



7.    The Impact of the 1982-83 El Nifio. The 1982-83 El Nifno has been the strongest such
event of this century with devastating impact on many countries of the world, with widespread
incidents of drought, flooding and severe storms in 5 continents, and economic losses estimated
by some to be in excess of US$14 billion. The Western countries of Latin America, in particular,
were most severely affected as the 1982-83 El Niflo event is estimated to have led to up to 100
inches of rain over six months in the coastal desert regions of Northern Peru and Ecuador, and
severe drought in the Andean highlands with an estimated US$2 billion in direct and indirect
losses to fisheries, agriculture, transportation, housing, and other sectors of the economy. In
Peru, the Government has estimated direct losses of up to US$ 1 billion, with subsequent
estimates of reconstruction efforts over several years costing almost as much additionally. The
IMF estimates of the El Niiio impact on the Peruvian economy accounted for half of the 12
percent decline in the GDP observed in 1982.
8.    The social impact of the 1982-83 El Nifio was also severe in Peru. Over 200 lives were
lost and there was significant social dislocation caused by the immediate needs to deal with floods
and droughts, incidences of breakout of disease with damage to potable water and sanitation
facilities. The change in temperature patterns typical of the El Niio event disrupted fishing as
some fish migrated southward towards Chile or withdrew deeper into the ocean, crop cycles were
disrupted because of an increase in temperatures, and key economic and social infrastructure
services of electricity, roads, telephones, schools, hospitals and housing suffered damage'. In the
Andean highlands in the south (Altiplano hereafter) , the drought conditions led to shortages of
food for humans and shortages of forage for livestock. This led to a large-scale slaughter of cattle
for meat leading to cattle shortages in later years2. In the southern department of Puno, for
example, the Ministry of Agriculture estimates that crop production fell by 70%, while livestock
sales increased by 25% in the 1982-83 episode, as people were forced to sell or decimate
livestock due to the lack of forage and shortage of food for human consumption. The decimation
of livestock herds, the lack of food in local markets and a shortage of seeds for the next year's
crop impacted the local economy for several subsequent years and also contributed to a mass
migration from rural communities to urban centers in search of employment.
9.    The 1997-98 El Nin'o. The return of El Nifno was first detected in the Eastern Pacific in
May of this year. By July, it was clear that the phenomenon was as intense as that of 1982-83.
Off the coast of Peru, the sea-surface temperature rose sharply in the period, March-June 1997.
Compared to the 1982-83 episode, the one that began in 1997-98 has already accelerated rapidly
to a level (of sea surface temperatures) as high as reached at the peak of 1982-83 cycle.
Although these temperature anomalies started earlier than in 1982-83, they could, if sustained
through the summer months of the Southern Hemisphere (December-April), give rise to rainfall
on a scale experienced in 1982-83. IBRD Map No.29186 accompanying the Memorandum of the
President to this operation shows the sea temperature anomalies observed off the coast of Peru in
September 1997. It is for this reason that the Peruvian government declared a state of emergency
In 1982-83, for example, 620 kilometers of roads, including 350 km. of the Pan American highway, the main
artery of the country, were out of service due to heavy rains; 47 bridges and 4 airports were also damaged, as
was 600 km. of the electricity distribution system. Additionally, 101 health centers and 875 educational
institutions suffered damage leading to prolonged loss of livelihoods and social services.
2 It is estimated that 2.6 million heads of livestock were lost in the course of the 1982-83 El Niflo event.



-4 -
in June 1997 to enable it take, sufficiently in advance, the needed preventive steps to mitigate the
adverse socio-economic impact on the most vulnerable region of the country.
10.   Reliability of Forecasts. The gross features of the El Ninio events, and some of its
climate impacts, can be predicted in advance by ocean-atmosphere models. However, the
predictive capability of these models is still limited by an insufficient understanding of the intrinsic
mechanism responsible for these events. In general, forecasts of shorter lead time i.e. three
months, have shown themselves to be more reliable. Forecasts are currently showing that
temperature anomalies off the Northern Peruvian coast will continue at least until March 1998.
As a result, it is reasonable to suppose, particularly in the northernmost reaches of the coastal
plain (Tumbes and Piura), that the rainfall pattern may be similar to that in 1982-83. The duration
of the rainfall from this 1997-98 El Niflo event, however, may eventually be less than in 1982-83
(when it continued for over 6 months until June/July) since the 1997-98 El Nifno formed earlier.
11.   Though there remains an element of uncertainty in the intensity of the El Nifno events,
there is, nevertheless, considerable consensus that vulnerable regions such as Northern Peru
should take the essential preventive measures to mitigate the impact of any flooding caused by a
likelihood of a sustained period of heavy rainfall, as occurred in 1982-83, and which some still
think could be exceeded by the 1997-98 El Niflo event. Equally, the Altiplano regions in southern
Peru should begin to rehabilitate water management facilities and put in place contingent
strategies to deal with drought mitigation measures. Such preventive measures are particularly
important in Peru, as the departments that are the most vulnerable to the extreme weather
patterns brought about by El Nifno also contain some of the highest percentages of economically
vulnerable groups. The Altiplano in particular is one of the poorest regions in the entire Latin
America and the majority of the population has little economic security to withstand the effects of
any incidence of loss of crops or other livelihood caused by drought. The poorer population
groups in the Northern Coastal area also have very simple dwellings whose construction materials
have little ability to withstand torrential rains as are being forecast. Table 2 shows the incidence
of poverty in some of the departments of the country which are expected to be the most
vulnerable to extreme weather patterns due to El Nifio.



-5-
Table 2: Incidence of Poverty in Departments Vulnerable to Effects of El Nifio
Department   % poor   No. poor    Index                    El Niho Effects
poverty
Tumbes           29       50,000       1.0    Extensive, torrential rains, possible flooding
Piura            48       705,000     2.29    Extensive, torrential rains, possible flooding
Cajamarca        66       887,000     2.90    Extensive, torrential rains, possible flooding
Lambayeque       49       494,000      1.87    Extensive, torrential rains, possible flooding
La Libertad      54       738,000     2.08    Extensive, torrential rains, possible flooding
Ancash           56       574,000     2.31    Extensive, torrential rains, possible flooding
Arequipa         32       320,000      1.55    Failure of rains, possible drought conditions
Moquegua         37       51,000       1.49    Failure of rains, possible drought conditions
Tacna            33       81,000       1.39    Failure of rains, possible drought conditions
Puno             68       778,000     2.83    Failure of rains, possible drought conditions
Ayacucho         65       337,000     3.03    Failure of rains, possible drought conditions
Apurilnac        73       299,000     3.16    Failure of rains, possible drought conditions
Huancavelica     72       298,000     3.39    Failure of rains, possible drought conditions
Cusclo           60       662,000     2.93    Failure of rains, possible drought conditions
TOTAL            55      6,274,000
NLote: "Poor' is defined to include the poor and the extreme poor according to the definitions used by the Ministry
of the Presidency. The poverty index is based on the methodology used by FONCODES on the basis of 11 socio-
economic indicators. Data has been based on information from the National Institute of Statistics and
FONCODES documents.
12.    The Government's Strategy for Dealing with the 1997-98 El Nifio. Given the current
scenarios of the potential impact of the 1997-98 El Niiio event, the Government of Peru is taking
decisive steps to mitigate the impact of a potential emergency situation. On June 19, 1997 a state
of emergency was declared in 9 of the country's 24 departments, a number which has
subsequently increased to 14. These departments are: in the North - Tumbes, Piura, Cajamarca,
Lambayeque, La Libertad y Ancash; and in the South - Arequipa, Moquegua, Tacna, Puno,
Ayacucho, Apurimac, Huancavelica and Cusco. IBRD Map No. 29188 accompanying the
Memorandum of the President illustrates the departments in which the Government has declared a
state of El Nifio emergency.
13.   A key element of the Government's strategy is a strong emphasis on preventive actions to
mitigate the loss of human life and damage to infrastructure.
(a)    As part of this prevention strategy, the Government has already begun the
rehabilitation and strengthening of key infrastructure facilities in the flood-prone
North - dredging riverbeds, strengthening river defenses, cleaning/constructing
storm drainage, strengthening bridges, and the constructing of temporaly housing
in elevated locations. In the drought-prone Altiplano (high plains), the
Government is rehabilitating and strengthening water management infrastructure
and taking steps to ensure the production and distribution of forage and seeds to
minimize the impact of potential drought conditions.



-6 -
(b)   The subsequent rliedf phase, to be implemented largely by the National Institute of
Civil Defense (INDECI), is expected to consist of standard disaster response
activities in the immediate aftermath (90-100 days) of the disaster being declared.
This is likely to include evacuation, temporary, and in some cases permanent,
resettlement of households from flood affected areas, and the distribution of food,
medicines and other essentials.
(c)   Finally, the reconstruction phase, to be coordinated through the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, is expected to last two to three years and would be focused
on reconstruction of economic and social infrastructure.
14.   The Bank's Response. The Government requested Bank financial support for emergency
activities just prior to the Annual Meetings and the Bank fielded a mission almost immediately to
assess the Government's program and modalities of Bank support. This mission, and its
subsequent follow-up, assisted the Government in refocusing the design of a program of
prevention activities, in defining the eligibility criteria and the project management arrangements
for the subsequent reconstruction phase, and an institutional strengthening component. A similar
request for financing was made to the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) with whom close
coordination has been maintained throughout the preparation of the Emergency Assistance
project.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
15.   Project Objectives. The principal objectives of the proposed project would be to:
(a)   Help reduce the loss of human life and a deterioration of living standards that
might result from the floods and/or droughts caused by the 1997/98 El Niio event.
(b)   Help reduce the loss of, or damage to, economic and social infrastructure that
might result from similar events.
(c)   Help increase Peru's capacity to forecast and respond to future El Nino
phenomena.
16.   Project Design Alternatives Considered. An unusual feature of this particular
emergency operation is that, even though a potential emergency situation has been forecast with a
high degree of probability, its severity and scope are not yet known at the time of project design
and approval. Given this uncertainty, and at the same time, the immediate need for funding
preventive activities, the project team considered several design options.
(a)   Restructuring a part of the existing portfolio to include the needed prevention
works. In subsequent consultation with the Government, it was decided not to
restructure project operations in the existing portfolio as the diversion of funds of
the proposed magnitude from their originally designated uses was likely to put at
risk the basic development objectives of these operations.



-7-
(b)   Processing a new operation only for the preventive phase, while preparing another
project for the reconstruction phase to be approved once the effects of the El Nifno
event became clearer. The option of a two-operation approach was also dropped
as it was realized that given the uncertain nature and timing of the El Ninlo's
impact, it was important for the Government to have access to adequate financial
resources to ensure timely response to both immediate and/or evolving emergency
disaster situations. The Government gave considerable importance to these two
considerations.
(c)   On a more technical level, a strategic design choice was made for the drought
prevention program. The original project design called for livestock management
through culling of camelid herds and transportation of bovine and ovine livestock
from drought prone areas to less vulnerable areas. In consultation with the Food
and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Centro Internacional de Mejoramiento de
Maizy Trigo (CMIMYT) and the World Bank, the Government has now decided
to focus its drought prevention efforts on ensuring availability of some water, and
minimal production of forage and seeds to ensure maintenance of livestock herds
and the availability of seeds for the next crop.
17.   Description. Given the nature of the El Nino event, the proposed operation is designed
to be implemented in three distinct phases: (a) a prevention phase of about six months (July-
December 1997), in which project activities are now well defined; (b) an emergency phase in
which the Bank will provide limited support, and (c) a reconstruction phase, estimated to require
two to three years, whose scope and content cannot yet be defined prior to the emergency
occurring, but for which eligibility criteria have been drawn up and agreed to. In addition, the
project includes an institutional strengthening component.
(a)   The prevention component consists of two sub-components:
(i)   Flood-protection measures in northern coastal Peru, including river
dredging, strengthening of river defenses, cleaning/construction of storm
drainage canals in urban and rural areas, bridge strengthening, construction
of temporary housing, and protection of archeological sites.
(ii)    Drought-mitigation measures in southern Peru's Altiplano, including water
management measures such as rehabilitation of wells, pumps, and small
irrigation systems, production of forage to mitigate the effects of a drought
on livestock and a seed production program to ensure the availability of
seeds for the next planting season.
(b)   In the emergency phase, the Bank will provide limited support, largely for the
provision of certain emergency equipment such as mobile bridge structures, mobile
power plants and water tanks, pumps and metallic protection structures needed
urgently during the flood disaster.
(c)   The reconstruction phase. Given that the full impact of the El Nino will only be
ascertained in the first few months of 1998, it is not possible to define this phase
completely at this time. The eligibility of financing for any reconstruction activities



- 8-
would thus be contingent on damages sustained due to El Nifio related
phenomena. It is likely to consist of the following three sub-components:
(i)    Rehabilitation and reconstruction of key public infrastructure such as a)
hospitals, health posts, schools; (b) roads and bridges; (c) irrigation and
drainage systems; (d) water supply and electricity; and (e) river training,
defenses and embankments. Investment sub-projects to be financed under
the reconstruction phase would have to meet eligibility criteria agreed upon
with the Government (paragraph 21).
(ii)    Resettlement of families in flood prone areas This sub-component will
support the provision of infrastructure facilities and public services for the
permanent relocation of about 6,000 families identified to be living in areas
that are recurrently flood prone and/or whose relocation is considered
essential to carrying out the Government's emergency preparedness efforts.
(iii)   Labor-intensive rural public works program. A labor-intensive rural public
works program aimed at providing a safety net to vulnerable groups
affected by the drought, who might otherwise migrate out of the Andean
highlands to the coastal areas in search of employment. These works
would also strengthen sustainable agricultural capacity of drought-prone
areas in the long run.
(d)   Institutional support This sub-component will finance:
(i)   Specialized expertise, training and equipment to a range of Peruvian
institutions responsible for collecting information, and predicting,
monitoring and mitigating the effects of future El Nino events.
(ii)    The preparation of a comprehensive government strategy for disaster
forecasting and management.
(iii)   Technical assistance, to the Office of Investments in the Ministry of
Economy and Finance to enable it to carry out project implementation
effectively, including necessary support for the planning and
implementation of the resettlement activities.
A.   The Emergency Prevention Component (approx. US$ 100 million)
18.   Flood Control Component (approx. US$ 90 million). This component will finance
measures in northern coastal Peru to undertake rehabilitation and maintenance works to minimize
damage to people and property by keeping flood water away from the flood prone areas. The
design of this component is based on the premise that the water flow due to the likely heavy
rainfall associated with El Ninio will be significantly higher than normal and may well lead to water
flow patterns different from the "normal behavior" of rivers and streams the potentially
devastating impact of which may require actions beyond routine maintenance works. The works
to be financed through this component include river dredging, strengthening of river defenses,



-9-
cleaning/construction of storm drainage canals in urban and rural areas, bridge strengthening,
construction of temporary housing, and protection of archeological sites. Appendix 1 provides a
list of these preventive flood control works being undertaken in the Northern coastal area.
19.   The flood control system against the impact of the 1997-98 El Niflo includes two main
sub-components: (i) controlling water encroachment from outside the protected areas through
overflowing rivers, drainage canals and runoffs from upland areas, and (ii) controlling the surplus
water accumulating within the protected areas due to heavy rainfall or due to the water coming
from external sources.
20. Controlling Waters Originating from Outside the Flood Prone Areas. In the northern
region, there are likely to be three major external sources of water coming into the region: rivers
(including ravines), flooded drainage canals and runoff from upland areas. River banks and
drainage channel flooding occur because rivers and channels have insufficient carrying capacity to
handle the high flows. Thus, the preventive works in this area have been designed to increase the
flood carrying capacity of the water courses by dredging river beds (Piura and Tumbes rivers);
the upgrading of the levees and riverbanks (Motupe, Olmos, Chancay, Cascajal, Moche, Viru y
Lacramarca and other rivers and ravines ); construction of cutoff channels (La Leche and Zana
rivers); placing facing against slopes in the ravines and drains to strengthen them and to prevent
scour and erosion (typically rip-rap protection, "gavione" mattresses, poly-ethylene sand-cement
sacks; and the clearing of the obstructions in the water courses (including the cleaning and
reinforcing capacity of the culverts, ditches, and bridges of the roads system). Special
consideration is being given to bridges and culverts which can cause abrupt constriction of
streams and at the same time constitute obstacles in the path of the flood. Runoff from upland
areas is being handled by interceptor channels coupled with small levees.
21.   Control of Waters Originatingfrom Within the Flood Prone Areas. The design of the
flood control system in the Northern area also takes into account the role of heavy rainfalls in the
development of flood conditions. In this case, the flood protection measures being undertaken
include improvement to the rain-storm drainage systems in the urban and rural areas, installation
of pumping facilities to evacuate the accumulated water quickly, cleaning and strengthening of
sewage systems, the protection of public buildings ( archeological places, health posts, hospitals
and schools), and transport facilities (airports and ports). Although the planning authorities have
given first priority to these measures to control water accumulation within the protected areas, the
effectiveness of these measures will depend critically on the effectiveness of the measures
described above to additionally control water coming into the area from rivers, drainage canals
and runoffs.
22.   Drought Mitigation Measures (approx. US$ 10 million). The Government's
emergency program for drought areas covers seven departments, namely, Apurimac, Arequipa,
Ayacucho, Cusco, Moquegua, Puno, and Tacna. Most of the activities proposed in this
component will be focused on the department of Puno, which is expected to be the hardest hit
department. The principal activity is livestock production, the main products being milk, meat,
and wool (both sheep and alpaca). Pasture production is mainly in rainfed areas, and is based on
low yielding native pasture. Crop production is almost entirely at subsistence levels and is
characterized by extremely low productivity levels (yields/hectare). These areas are dominated by
minifundio and low levels of productivity. Farms are segmented and highly dispersed, availability
of working capital is scarce and this has been one of the principal factors why irrigation schemes



-10-
have not prospered. It is also a principal reason why the farming community cannot develop
preventive measures to combat the expected drought due to the El Ninlo phenomenon, and
significant preventive rehabilitation needs to be undertaken.
23.   Rehabilitation of Existing Water and ImWgation Systems. As a drought prevention
measure in the Sierra Sur, it is necessary to ensure that existing water resources are operative for
human, animal consumption and where possible for small irrigation systems.
(a)   Rehabilitation of deep tubular wells. This component will support the
rehabilitation of tubular wells that are currently not functioning to enable them to
be used for irrigation in small areas. Of the 100 existing wells in Puno, for
example, only 25 are now operational and the other 75 need to be rehabilitated at
an estimated unit cost of US$14,000. Activities to be financed include cleaning of
the existing wells, repairs and replacement of pumps, and tests for pump capacity
and quality of water. The rehabilitation of these wells will be carried out by the
lnstituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales (INRENA) and the Programa de Aguas
Subterrineasy Tecnificaci6n de Riesgo (PRASTER), which are local agencies,
currently working on drought prevention measures in Puno in collaboration with
the Comites de Regantes of each of the wells under repair. It is estimated that this
component will benefit 1,370 families and provide potential irrigation for 2,300
hectares of land.
(b)   Rehabilitation of Small Wells. This sub-component will finance the rehabilitation
of a series of shallow wells in Puno that can be used to provide water for human
and animal consumption. This sub-component will rehabilitate the existing 3500
wells and install 3500 manual pumps throughout the department of Puno. It is
estimated that the cost of rehabilitating and installing each pump will be US$225.
The work is being carried out by the Direcci6n Regional del Ministerio de
Agricultura.
(c)   Rehabilitation of Existing Irrigation Infrastructure. This sub-component will
finance the rehabilitation of 94 existing irrigation systems across 7 departments
that are currently not fully operational for reasons of incomplete works and lack of
maintenance. PRONAMACH has already started on the rehabilitation of a number
of these irrigation schemes throughout the Sierra Sur as part of its drought
prevention work. The sub-component is expected to benefit 8,163 families and
provide irrigation to 6,215 hectares.
24.   Forage Production Program. This component will support a program of forage
production in the irrigated areas of Puno, to guard against a repeat of the 1982-83 experience of
the forced sale of livestock and the slow recuperation of the herd, because of the lack of forage.
The program is run by the Ministry of Agriculture, coordinated in the field by the Instituto
Nacional de Investigaci6n Agropecuaria (INIA) and implemented by various government
agencies in collaboration with farmers in the existing irrigation schemes. The strategy being
implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture is to sow annual forage crops such as barley and oats
along with a small amount of perennial pastures. The agreement between the Ministry and the
farmers stipulates that the harvest will be divided in equal parts between the parties. It is estimated
that under irrigation yields of green forage can reach 30 tons/hectare. The total projected harvest



- I1 -
is calculated to provide forage for the equivalent of 50,000 cattle or 300,000 sheep, or 200,000
camelids for a period of seven months which are estimated to be periods of severe shortages of
forage in the case of a drought. It is estimated that sowing should be completed by December 31,
1997.
25. Seed Production Program. One of the ingredients in hastening recovery from a drought
is the need to ensure an ample supply of good quality seed for the subsequent sowing season.
This sub-component will finance the implementation of such a measure with a seed production
program consisting of crops that provide the basic foods and forage for the area, namely,
potatoes, quinua, canihua, barley, oats, faba beans and tarwi. This program would be
implemented by INIA, and the Universidad Nacional Agraria (UNA) which have as a main part
of their research strategy to provide seed for the basic food crops of Peru. Sowing will start
immediately in October 1997. It is proposed to finance the sowing of 2,660 hectares, all under
irrigation, with a total seed production of 20,157 tons at an estimated cost of US$2.73 million.
B. Emergency Operations.
26.   The emergency phase is expected to consist of standard disaster response activities in the
immediate aftermath (90-100 days) of the disaster being declared. This is likely to include
evacuation, temporary, and in some cases permanent, resettlement of households from flood
affected areas, and the distribution of food, medicines and other essentials. The Bank's
involvement in this phase will be limited. It is likely to be implemented through the National
Institute of Civil Defence with assistance from other agencies and NGOs with a comparative
advantage in such activities. The Bank may, however, provide limited support, largely for the
provision of certain emergency equipment such as mobile bridge structures, mobile power plants
and water tanks, pumps and metallic protection structures needed urgently during the flood
disaster.
C. Reconstruction Phase. ( in the order of US$330 million).
27.   Given that the full impact of the El Nino will only be ascertained in the first few months of
1998, it is not possible to define completely up-front this component. It is, however, likely to
consist of the following three components.
28.   Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Economic and Social Infrastructure. While the
specific activities to be included in this phase cannot be identified up-front, the following types of
infrastructure services will be eligible:
(a)   hospitals, health posts, schools;
(b)   roads (primary, secondary and rural), bridges and the urban street system;
(c)   irrigation and drainage systems;
(d)   water supply and electricity; and
(e)   river defenses, river training construction.



- 12-
29.   The specific works to be financed under the reconstruction phase cannot be defined until
the full extent of any damages resulting from excessive rainfall in the coastal region and/or the
drought in the Altiplano are known. This will not be feasible until the beginning of 1998 at the
earliest. As a consequence, the works to be financed under the reconstruction phase must meet
the following eligibility criteria:
(a)   they must be located in the officially declared emergency regions;
(b)   prior existence before the El Ninio event;
(c)   they must form an integral part of the emergency operation;
(d)   demonstration of clear cause and effect relationship between the El Nifno events
and the damage;
(e)   acceptable technical, economic and environmental rationale for rehabilitation;
(f)   the existence of an appropriate and capable agency to execute the work;
(g)   involvement of the direct beneficiaries and stakeholders in the identification and
design of the sub-project; and
(h)   to the extent possible, the integration of labor intensive technologies in sub-project
design and execution.
30.   Though these works to be financed will not be known with certainty until early 1998, all
rehabilitation works for financing under the Bank project, must be presented to the Bank within
one year of the effectiveness date of the project.
31.   Resettlement of Families at Risk in the Flood Prone Areas (approx. US$ 28 milion).
El Ninlo is expected to cause heavy rains resulting in flooding of towns and cities in the north
coast of Peru, causing landslides in sloping terrains and inundation in low-lying areas. Perhaps as
many as 60,000 people or 12,000 families are likely to be displaced as a result of destabilization of
slopes and flooding of low areas in three departments of the north coast: Tumbes, Piura and
Lambayeque. Civil defense authorities (INDECI) together with Regional Governments and the
National Commission for Formalization of Informal Properties (COFOPRI) have estimated that of
these 60,000 people, as many as 30,000 people (6,000 families) would need to be resettled
permanently from their current place of residence. The other 30,000 persons or 6,000 families
may need to be temporarily resettled in case of floods that may make their place of residence
unsafe for a short period of time. The following table displays the expected numbers of families
which will require reconstruction programs to return to their sites of origin and those which will
require permanent resettlement programs in the evacuation sites. In some communities, portions
of the population will require reconstruction while others will require resettlement. These
numbers are estimates and will be refined during completion of the necessary studies in the field
prior to approval of plans.



- 13 -
Table 3: Estimates of Families Likely to be Resettled
Department   Community  No. Families Area (Ha)  Temporary   Permanent
Tumbes        Zarumilla        .501          20          yes          no
Tumbes          1,000         40          yes          yes
Pto. Pizarro      220         10          no           yes
La Cruz           195         10          yes          no
Zorritos           80          5          yes          no
Sub-Total       1,996         85
Piura         Piura            3,078         65          no           yes
Castilla        1,750         40          no           yes
Paita            1,870        30          yes          yes
Sechura           157         17          yes          yes
Talara           417          14          yes          yes
Sullana           855         17          yes          yes
Sub-Total       8,127        183
Lambayeque  Sub-total          2,000         60          yes          yes
TOTAL                       12,123       328
32.   Three broad phases of resettlement are expected during the course of the impact of the El
Nifno phenomenon - Evacuation of Families At-Risk, the Emergency itself and the Reconstruction
and Resettlement phase. All families at risk will be involved in the first phase, whereas the second
and third phases distinguish among those families able to return to sites of origin and reconstruct
or repair their homes and those who must be resettled permanently in new locations.
(a)   Phase 1: Evacuation of Families At-Risk. The first phase entails the immediate
evacuation of populations at risk of flooding or landslide and their transfer to
temporary housing (communal barracks) in stable areas at higher locations,
together with temporary provision of potable water, electricity, latrines, health
services and communal kitchens. Due to the emergency conditions, INDECI and
the Regional Governments have already selected the sites for temporary transfer in
all three Departments, land leveling and zoning into lots has begun in Tumbes and
some parts of Piura, and installation of temporary housing has started in Tumbes.
It is expected that all evacuation sites will be ready to receive affected families by
December, 1997. Evacuation will be carried out by INDECI. In several instances,
Government has determined that the at-risk population will not be able to return to
their original homes, and, therefore, evacuation sites will be laid out from the
beginning as permanent new settlements (individual family lots). In these cases,
COFOPRI will provide property titles and registry services to affected families
transferred during the succeeding phases.



- 14-
(b)   Phase 2: Emergency. During the expected emergency, the response to which will
be met by other institutions, the 01 will carry out needed planning studies for the
reconstruction and resettlement operations, including social and environmental
assessments of the alternative solutions (reconstruction in original sites or
permanent resettlement in evacuation areas). The social assessments, containing
reconstruction plans and resettlement plans, as well as environmental management
plans, will be completed by June 30, 1998.
(c)   Phase 3: Reconstruction and Resettlement. Reconstruction plans will be
implemented for those areas that can be stabilized by civil works like drainage
canals and retention walls. For areas such as coastal and riverine floodplains,
unstable river banks, and steep canyons which cannot be stabilized with civil works
in a cost effective manner, resettlement plans will be implemented to permanently
resettle populations in areas to which they were evacuated during the emergency.
The proposed operation will support preparation of site-specific Resettlement
Action Plans, including definitive installation of infrastructure, provision of public
services, community participation in operation and maintenance of public works
and services, capacity building to assist economic productivity of affected families,
social development programs targeting especially vulnerable groups (e.g.
fishermen, women, youth), and environmental management programs for the
resettlement areas. In the areas of origin that are evacuated permanently,
additional environmentally and socially sustainable management plans will be
formulated to ensure settlements are not regenerated once the emergency is over.
33.   To implement this resettlement program, the 01 will contract a Reconstruction and
Resettlement Team (RRT) at the end of the Evacuation Phase at the latest to provide technical
assistance and to supervise and monitor implementation of this component. This RRT will consist
of an anthropologist/sociologist, a social worker and an economist, each with prior experience
with resettlement operations. The team will be responsible for carrying out a Social Assessment
(SA) which will provide the basis for resettlement and reconstruction planning during the
Emergency Phase. The SA will consist of baseline socioeconomic data on the affected
population, formulation of a process of consultation with affected populations and institutions
concerned, analysis of the socioeconomic issues to be encountered in the operations, an analysis
of vulnerability to identify special needs, and the resettlement and reconstruction plans themselves
based on the foregoing assessment.
34.   The Regional Governments concerned, COFOPRI and the 01 will then review,
adjust/revise as needed, finalize and submit for the no objection of the Bank the proposed plans,
which will then be officially issued no later than June 30, 1998. Resettlement and reconstruction
plans will be implemented by Regional Governments supported by COFOPRI. The RRT will
assist the relevant institutions in the implementation of these operations and provide the OI with
bi-monthly monitoring reports and semi-annual evaluation reports. The project will support
appointment of the RRT, strengthening of COFOPRI offices in the field, and appointment of
short-term consultant specialists as may be needed in addition to office, communications and
transport equipment needed to implement the resettlement and reconstruction programs.



-15-
35.   The Borrower and the Bank have agreed upon the overall resettlement policy and legal
framework, the institutional responsibilities for implementation of resettlement operations, the
design criteria which will be utilized for the operations, and the financial responsibilities and
estimated budgetary requirements (see Appendix 6). These agreements will guide the
resettlement planning process and form the basis for Bank review and approval of final
resettlement plans.
36.    The following table displays cost estimates for each department. Estimates are based on
the expected costs of permanent resettlement and the assumption that costs of reconstruction in
sites of origin will be similar.
Table 4: Estimated Costs for Resettlement of Families at Risk (US$ thousands)
Department    No.       No.    House4  Infrast  Educ.    Env.  Evacu   Admu  Studies  COST
Family    Ha.3            ructure    &       Mgt.   ation   @5%        &
s     Health                           Cons6
Tumbes          998      85       905      4250     410     150      20      499 X           6,234
Piura          4063      183      3682    9150    1560    300        45     1182          _ 15,919
Lambayeque     1000      60       906      3000     410     150      30      375             4,871
Totals         6061      328      5493    16400    2380    600       95     2056    1180    28,204
37.    The total cost of this resettlement operation is estimated to be US$ 28,204,000 (Table 4).
Of this, the Bank will finance up to an estimated US$17 million for the provision of infrastructure
services to the resettlement facilities for those families that will be permanently resettled, in
addition to technical assistance for strengthening capacity of the OI and COFOPRI to deal with
resettlement issues (this is described in the institutional strengthening component below). These
basic infrastructure services may include potable water supplies, provision of electricity, internal
and access roads, drainage systems, and sanitation services. The Borrower will finance from its
own resources the provision of replacement land and houses, mobilization and transfer of the
population, public services such as education and health, and all recurrent administrative,
personnel, equipment and vehicle costs of the Government agencies and institutions contributing
to the design and implementation of different aspects of the resettlement program. The estimated
costs of these elements is US$ 11 million (US$ 5.5 million for land and housing, US$ 2.4 million
for public services, US$1 million for transfer, and US$ 2.1 million for administrative costs).
3 A 120 m2 lot will be allocated at no cost to each affected family. Lands are municipal government property
today, which will be transferred to COFOPRI for allocation and titling to the affected families.
4 A basic module house with one room of 1 1 m2 will be provided free of cost to each family. Communal kitchens
and latines will be provided in each area. Total cost is US$ 453 per family.
Land leveling, division into lots, and provision of water supply, electricity, access and internal roads are
calculated at US$ 100,000 per hectare.
6 Studies and consultants include US$ 300,000 for the OI Resettlement and Reconstruction Team, US$ 150,000 for
consultants to conduct Environmental Audits and Environmental Assessments, and US$ 280,000 to establish
regional offices of COFOPRI to issue titles to land and houses, US$ 200,000 to establish a social work unit in
COFOPRI field offices, and US$ 250,000 to finance restoration of mangrove forests in protected areas by
Pronatura of Peru.



-16-
38.   Labor intensive rural public works program. In the event of a severe drought in the
Altiplano, this component would also finance a labor intensive rural public works program aimed
at providing a safety net to vulnerable groups affected by the drought and who would otherwise
migrate out of the Altiplano to the coastal areas in search of employment. These works would
also strengthen sustainable agricultural capacity of drought prone areas in the long run. Such a
rural public works would be designed on the following principles:
(a)   that it be undertaken only in the event of a drought in the Altiplano;
(b)   that it be well targeted;
(c)   that it be time limited and not become permanent;
(d)   that the works undertaken be only on public (rather than private) infrastructure;
(e)   that it be implemented through an agency with demonstrated capacity for such
works in the Altiplano; and
(f)   that it be monitored through the Office of Investments.
39.   The details of the design of such a rural public works program and the implementing
mechanisms will be agreed upon with the Government and the agreement on the regulations
governing the implementation of such a program will form a condition for the disbursement of this
component.
D.    Institutional Support Component. (approx. US$ 7 million)
40.   This component will finance: (a) specialized equipment, technical assistance and training
aimed at strengthening the capacity of selected Peruvian institutions to forecast and respond to
future El Nin'o episodes; (b) the preparation of a comprehensive Government strategy for disaster
forecasting and management; and (c) project management and other consulting services in support
of MEF's Office of Investments, as required to adequately carry out project implementation. It is
worth noting that, in spite of the short-term emergency nature of this operation, this component
aims to increase the long-term sustainable impact of Bank involvement.
41.   Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building. This subcomponent aims to
strengthen the capacity of selected Peruvian institutions responsible for forecasting, preventing,
mitigating and monitoring the effects of, and carrying out relief activities in connection with this
year's and future El Nino episodes. The Bank will finance specialized equipment, technical
assistance and training for four institutions that have been identified in close consultation with the
Ministry of Economy and Finance7: Instituto Geofisico del Perui (IGP), Instituto del Mar del Peru
(IMARPE), Instituto Nacional de Defiensa Civil (INDECI) and Servicio Nacional de
Meteorologia e Hidrologil (SENAMHI). Each one of these institutions has prepared preliminary
requests for Bank financing. The technical and institutional soundness of the four requests will be
reviewed by GOP and the Bank, with the benefit of qualified external reviewers, during the early
7 These institutions are statutory memrbers of the "Estudio Regional del Fen6meno del Milo" (ERFEN) which was
established by the intergovernmental Comisi6n Permanente del Pacifico Sur, and was recently ratified by
GOP.



- 17-
stage of project implementation. In reviewing the four requests, GOP and the Bank will take into
account the proposals made by these institutions for close cooperation and operational
coordination among them during project implementation and beyond, as well as the total amount
of resources available for this subcomponent. The end result of the review will be a consolidated
list of equipment, technical assistance and training which would be financed by the Bank. The
following paragraphs reflect the nature and scope of the above-mentioned preliminary requests,
which are described in greater detail in Appendix 5.
(a)   Instituto Geofisico del Perui (IGP). To strengthen Peru's capacity to forecast
climate changes, including El Nino, IGP aims to use free-of-charge scientific
models recently developed by the scientific community worldwide (including the
USA's National Center for Atmospheric Research) as inputs to regional models of
climate change over Peru and high-resolution models of sea surface temperature
off the Peruvian coast. Other inputs include real-time observations of Peru's
atmosphere and coastal ocean which would be collected by automatic instrument
platforms and manual measuring operations. These will also provide the basis for
short and long-term weather forecasting. While IGP would be responsible for this
sub-component, it may choose to enter into specific "sub-contracting" agreements
with other institutions such as the Universidad de Piura (UdeP) and the Direcci6n
de Hidrografiay Navegaci6n (DHN), and possibly Instituto del Mar del Peru
(IMARPE). It is likely that IGP would ask: (a) DHN, and probably IMARPE, to
maintain and operate maritime and coastal instruments; and (b) UdeP to build and,
with DHN's assistance, operate a wind profiler, a sea-state radar in Lobos de
Afuera island, and a boundary layer radar. Regional forecasts would be made
available to the Instituto de Defensa Civil (INDECI), the Ministry of Agriculture,
other sector ministries and the general public via Internet. Real-time observations
of the atmosphere would be shared with SENAMIJI. Ocean state parameters and
predictions would be made available to IMARPE.
(b)   Instituto del Mar del Peru (IMARPE). Fishing is a major economic activity in
Peru. The Instituto del Mar del Peru (IMARPE) is responsible for carrying out
research and monitoring the impact of several factors (such as climate changes and
fishing intensity) on the biomass off Peru's coast. This sub-component would help
IMARPE strengthen its operations. It would finance specialized equipment for 3
coastal laboratories, advanced graduate training in relevant disciplines and
specialized foreign assistance for management of pelagic species, data processing
and forecasting, and integrated coastal zones.
(c)   Instituto Nacional de Defensa Civil (INDECI). INDECI is responsible for
designing and implementing disaster prevention and relief activities in Peru. It
encourages the public and the private sector to carry out analyses of risks and
vulnerability, and aims to improve the availability of human and logistical resources
nationwide. Bank financing under this sub-component would allow INDECI to
procure equipment needed to receive data from weather satellites, water level
controls and alarm systems to be used in rivers, enhancements to existing



- 18 -
Geographic Information System, and an integrated countrywide communication
system.-'
(d)   Servicio Nacional de Metereologia v Hidrologia (SENAMHI). The Servcio
Nacional de Metereologia e Hidrologia (SENAMHI) has identified, as its main
requirements: (a) improving and expanding its existing meteorological,
hydrological and environmental data collection stations; (b) improving its
communication systems; and (c) improving its climatologic data base.
42.   Comprehensive Strategy for Disaster Forecasting and Management. This
subcomponent will finance technical assistance to Government aimed at preparing a
comprehensive strategy for disaster forecasting and management. An action-oriented study will
be conducted, whose main objectives will be: (a) to evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of
existing Peruvian institutions dealing with disaster forecasting, prevention, mitigation, monitoring
and relief; (b) to'compare them against best practice available worldwide; and (c) to recommend a
comprehensive strategy for eventual adoption by Government. The draft terms of reference for
this study are attached as Appendix 4.
43.   TechnicalAssistancefor the Project Coordinaton Unit. The project will also finance
technical assistance to the Office of Investments in the Ministry of Economy and Finance which
will be coordinating the implementation of this project (project implementation arrangements are
described in greater detail below). In particular, this sub-component will finance project
management consultants whose main responsibilities would be to:
(a)   Provide a recommendation to the tri-partite approval committee based on a
technical evaluation of the sub-projects presented for reconstruction;
(b)   Ensure compliance of the proposed reconstruction works with the eligibility
criteria;
(c)   Ensure that the procurement procedures followed are in conformity with Bank
guidelines;
(d)   Ensure that the reconstruction sub-projects are undertaken in accordance with the
environmental guidelines set out in the Project Operating Manual;
(e)    Support the Borrower in preparing disbursement requests; and
(f)    Prepare quality progress reports on project implementation to be sent to the Bank.
44.   The mobilization of the project consultants, through a signed contract with the Borrower,
would be a condition for disbursement of the reconstruction phase.
INDECI has also requested financing of items to be used during the emergency (blankets, clothes, shelters, hand
tools, portable power generators, portable water tanks, fuel, kitchen and eating utensils, rescue equipment,
food, medicines, etc.) This is likely to be provided through a complementary project being prepared by the
Inter-American Development Bank.



- 19-
45.   In addition, the Project will also finance technical assistance to the OI and to other entities
involved in the resettlement program (approx. US$1.7 million) to support the planning and
implementation of the resettlement activities. This sub-component will finance: (i) strengthening
of COFOPRI field offices through personnel, equipment and vehicles to enable it to carry out
surveys of families that are being displaced, (ii) costs of the COFOPRI titling process and the
provision of social work assistance to affected persons, and (iii) costs of studies and surveys by
specialist consultants and other personnel to carry out the Environmental Assessments.
Environmental Imnact
46.   El Nifno potentially represents a major environmental disaster. The project is designed to
reduce the social and economic impacts of the disaster, to provide for emergency assistance
during the event, and to support socially and environmentally sustainable reconstruction and
recovery following the disaster. Environmental impacts will be associated with both the
prevention and reconstruction stages, and will be addressed through Environmental Audits with
the objective of designing and implementing Environmental Management Programs for each of
the project components and major sub-components as needed.
47.   Environmental Assessments. Environmental Assessments (EAs) will be conducted for
emergency prevention measures implemented from July 1997 to December 31, 1997. The 01 will
contract a qualified and experienced environmental firm or entity to conduct the assessments. The
assessments will consist of: (a) analysis of the environmental impact of project components and
major sub-components (e.g. drainage works, resettlement sites, etc.); (b) assessment of the
designs of mitigation or management programs to address the environmental impacts identified;
and, (c) evaluation and verification of compliance with applicable environmental criteria and
standards of proposed environmental management programs as integral elements of the project
components and sub-components.
48.   Environmental assessments will also be required for certain projects and sub-projects of
the reconstruction phase, the exact locations and magnitudes of which cannot be identified at this
moment. Therefore, all proposed reconstruction phase investments will be screened for potential
environmental impacts according to criteria agreed between the Bank and the Borrower. Where
environmental assessments are required, these together with their resulting Environmental
Management Plans (EMPs) will be submitted to the 01 for approval prior to beginning any works.
The Bank will review and express its no objection to the first 10% of such works, and thereafter
spot check for performance.
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
49.   The costs of the prevention phase are estimated to be approximately US$ 100 million, of
which funds from the proposed Loan would finance up to US$30 million. An additional US$30
million would be financed by the Inter-American Development Bank with the rest being met from
Government resources and others. The costs for the reconstruction phase cannot be estimated
with any degree of certainty at this time; based on the experience of the 1982-83 event, it is
estimated that the costs of reconstruction may be of the order of US$500 million if the 1997-98 El
Nifio event is of "moderate" to "severe" intensity.



-20 -
50.   The proposed Loan is expected to finance about one third of the cost of reconstruction
activities subject to a maximum of US$150 million for the overall project (including the
prevention activities). The IDB has made a similar amount available for prevention, emergency
relief and reconstruction activities. The Government also plans to mobilize additional financing
from the bilateral donors such as Japan for possible reconstruction activities.
51.   At the end of the first six months of Loan effectiveness, the Bank and the Government will
assess jointly the size of the damage of the El Nifno. If the damage is significantly less than
anticipated at the time of the presentation of this project, the Bank reserves the right to cancel all
or part of the Loan.
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
52.   Project Implementation Arrangements. The implementation arrangements in the
prevention phase have been coordinated at the highest levels of the Government with the active
involvement of President Fujimori since the emergency was first declared in June 1997. Given the
scale of the works and the short lead time until the arrival of heavy rains (i.e. December 1997),
most of the works have been undertaken directly by the concerned sector ministries and/or other
public sector bodies, including the National Institute of Civil Defense, by force account, i.e. using
their own work forces. These works have been coordinated by the National Commission for
Emergency Assistance (CONAE) under the Ministry of the Presidency (MIPRE) during July and
August and subsequently by the Council of Ministers. Municipal authorities, and to a smaller
extent, local communities have been involved in drawing up of the emergency prevention
program, though their involvement in the implementation of the works has been limited due to the
complexity and urgency of the programme.
53.  In the reconstruction phase, decisions on the sub-projects to be financed will be made by a
three person Committee within the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) comprising Vice-
Minister of Finance, Director-General of Budget and the Head of the Office of Investments (OI).
A strong decision-making body with authority to make resource allocation decisions is critical to a
rapid response to the reconstruction effort, while ensuring that only eligible sub-projects damaged
by the El Nifno events are financed. Responsibility for implementation of the sub-projects will
remain with those individual Ministries and/or public sector entities under whose authority the
relevant works fall. They in turn may designate capable public sector institutions or
regional/municipal entities to carry out the different civil works. Bank financing will be limited to
institutions with proven implementation capacity and/or familiarity with Bank procedures.
54.   The Office of Investments (01) of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) will serve
as the link between the tripartite project approval Committee and the implementation agencies.
The principal functions of the Office of Investments will be to:
(a)   coordinate the implementation of the reconstruction program across multiple
public sector agencies;
(b)   undertake a technical evaluation of sub-project requests, including their eligibility
for Bank financing and concordance with other Bank guidelines on procurement,
environment and resettlement;



- 21 -
(c)   based on this technical evaluation, provide a recommendation on the sub-project to
the tripartite Committee;
(d)   monitor the implementation of the reconstruction program, including due attention
to the resettlement activities and the environment audits;
(e)   ensure a timely flow of budget resources to implementing agencies;
(f)   prepare the disbursement requests to the different financing institutions;
(g)   maintain acceptable accounting, auditing and financial management standards;
(h)   provide timely reports to financing institutions in regard to project implementation;
(i)   hire, as needed, specialized consulting services to assist in project implementation;
and
(j)   ensure the establishment of an adequate financial management system including
accounting, internal control, financial reporting and audit arrangements acceptable
to the Bank.
55.   The Office of Investments will hire a Project Coordinator and a small complement of staff
including specialists in procurement, environment, and social sectors. It will additionally be
supported by a project management consulting firm, which would be hired prior to any
disbursements for reconstruction works. This consulting firm will provide the necessary expertise
in the technical and economic evaluation of reconstruction investments, monitor implementation,
assist in establishing a satisfactory financial management system and assist in the supervision of
procurement and execution of works by the implementing agencies.
56.   The works to be financed under the reconstruction phase cannot be defined until the
beginning of 1998 at the earliest, but would need to meet the eligibility criteria defined above.
The 01 will also monitor the implementation of the rural public works program, in the event of
drought conditions. The details of the design and operating rules for the rural public works
program will be agreed upon with the Government prior to any disbursements on this program.
57.   Procurement Arrangements. The Project will follow the Bank's procurement
guidelines for goods, services and consultant services. Given the nature of the project in which
the nature of the works and repairs is not pre-defined, there is no procurement plan. The methods
and thresholds are fixed on the basis of estimates, flexibility and coordination with the Inter-
American Development Bank.
(a)   Civil works. Civil works estimated to cost above US$ 5 million will be procured
through ICB procedures. There would be few works of such size. Works
estimated to cost less than US$5 million will be procured through NCB procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Smaller works estimated to cost less than US$3 million
will be procured through shopping procedures based on price quotations from at
least three qualified contractors. Additionally, direct contracting procedures will
be used for small repair works estimated to cost less than US$100,000 up to an
aggregate amount of US$1 million. Rehabilitation of deep and shallow wells and



- 22 -
land plowing in the drought areas will be financed on the basis of flat rates per
completed units on the basis of certifications issued by an independent entity
satisfactory to the Bank. Preventive infrastructure works carried out by force
account by ministries and agencies in the flood areas from June to December 1997,
will be financed retroactively on the basis of certifications issued by an
independent entity satisfactory to the Bank up to an aggregate amount of US$30
million. In addition, small rural works would be carried out through direct
contracting with the communities (on the basis of unit prices) for individual
contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 20,000, up to an aggregate of US$10
million.
(b)   Goods. Goods, including inputs for the production of seeds as well as tools and
materials for the job generation component, costing less than US$350,000 will be
procured through shopping procedures. Mobile bridge structures, mobile power
plants and pumps, metallic mesh structures (gaviones) and selected items costing
less than US$1 million and which may be urgently required during the peak of the
emergency will be procured directly from qualified suppliers up to an aggregate
amount of US$5 million.
(c)   Consultant Services. Consulting Services urgently required to implement key
components of the Project, including the hiring the technical auditors and project
management support, in contracts costing less than US$500,000 will be procured
on a sole source basis with firms and on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. Other consulting services, including project supervision during the
reconstruction phase will be procured using QCBS procedures or by extending the
contracts of the technical audits depending upon their performance. The
procurement aspects of the PPF were defined in the corresponding agreement.
(d)   Miscellaneous. The smaller purchases of sundry items and payment of fees and
utilities will be made using administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.
58.   Review by the Bank. All ICB procedures will be subject to prior review as well as the
first three NCB procedures for works. All direct contracting of goods and services, except for
the smaller works below US$100,000 up to the aggregate amount of US$ 1 million, and the
selected goods for the emergency in packages costing less than US$1 million up to the aggregate
amount of US$5 million, are subject to prior review by the Bank. The direct contracting of
consultants as well as the hiring of other consultant services for firms costing more than
US$100,000 and individuals costing more than US$50,000 will be subject to prior review by the
Bank. The works and activities subject to certification, including the forage component, well
rehabilitation and preventive infrastructure works to be included in the force account and
retroactive financing component, will not require prior review by the Bank, provided that the
certifications issued by the independent entity accompany the withdrawal applications. Table 5
summarizes the prior review by the Bank.



-23 -
Table 5: Prior Review
Category          Method           Prior Review
Civil Works  ICB                   All
NCB                    First three
Shopping             None
Certified works and land  None
plowing
Goods       ICB                    All
Shopping             None
Emergency items within   None
agreed limits
Consultants  Direct contracting    All
QCBS                   Above
__________   _________ ______  US$100,000
Individuals            Above US$50,000
59.   Disbursement Arrangements. The completion date for the project is determined to be
June 30, 1999 and the Closing Date December 31, 2000. The loan would be disbursed as shown
in Table 6. Given the availability of a Special Account (SA), the minimum withdrawal application
for direct payment from the Loan Account would be 20 percent of the initial deposit to the
Special Account. Withdrawal applications would be fully documented except for contracts for:
(a) consulting firms costing less than US$100,000; (b) individual consultants costing less than
US$ 50,000; and (c) works costing less than US$ 5,000,000 and goods costing less than US$
350,000. These will be reimbursed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). The
relevant documentation will be retained at the OI for ex-post review by IBRD staff during
supervision missions.
Table 6: Estimated Disbursements of IBRD Loan
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year          FY98               FY99               FY00
Disbursements             40                 50                 60
Cumulative                40                 90                 150
Disbursements
Cumulative (%)           27%                60%                100%
60.   The 01 will open a Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. To
facilitate disbursements, the authorized allocation for the Special Account would be US$ 15
million. However, the initial deposit will be US$5 million until the disbursed amount from the



- 24 -
Loan Account reaches US$30 million. The Special Account will be replenished by submitting
withdrawal applications to the Bank on a monthly basis. In addition, the OI will open a Project
Account to receive the Government counterpart funds to the project.
61.   Financial Management and Reporting Requirements The Office of Investments will
be responsible for putting in place a financial management system which will meet the Bank's
requirements for accounting, personnel, internal control, financial reporting and audits. The OI
will also submit quarterly reports on project activities to the Bank and participate in project
reviews with the Bank in June and December of each year of project execution.
62.   Monitoring The project monitoring indicators are tailored to the rather unusual features
of this operation, that all disaster prevention works will have been carried during project
processing (before Board presentation) and that individual reconstruction sub-projects will only
be identified once the damage caused by the El Ninio event becomes known.
63.   Because the prevention component is well advanced and on schedule, neither input
indicators, such as timely availability of resources, nor output indicators, such as actual execution
of physical works compared to original schedule or actual costs compared to original contract
costs, are of much use in monitoring the project ex-post. For these works, attention will be paid
to outcome indicators -- the cost-effectiveness and success of the prevention works in reducing
the loss of human life and social/economic infrastructure. These indicators will be analyzed in the
context of the losses incurred as a result of the severe El Niio in 1982-83 when little or no
preventive works were undertaken.
64.   Progress under the reconstruction component is more easily amenable to traditional
monitoring indicators. These indicators will be developed in detail as part of the Operational
Manual, which will be acceptable to the Bank and will include input, output and outcome
indicators.
(a)   The main input indicators would be used to monitor the efficiency with which
MEF's Office of Investments carries out its coordinating work: resource
availability (timeliness of local counterpart funds), skills (adequate staffing of unit),
procurement (amount of time required for various phases of sub-project
procurement), contract administration (amount of time required to pay sub-project
contractors), adequate accounting, financial, management and reporting practices,
appropriate internal controls, etc.
(b)   The main output indicators would monitor the compliance of the sub-projects with
the eligibility criteria spelled out in the Operational Manual, and efficiency and
speed with which they were carried out.
(c)   The main outcome indicators, which will be observed only in future years, will
reflect the extent to which reconstructed infrastructure will be able to withstand
future El Nifio events.
65.   Finally, the institutional strengthening component will be monitored in terms of output and
outcome indicators. The main output indicators will reflect the timely execution of the various
phases of the consultant's work as set forth in the Terms of Reference -- these will be finalized



- 25 -
shortly after loan effectiveness. The main outcome indicators will be: Government's early
adoption of a comprehensive strategy for disaster forecasting and management; and the
effectiveness of the new strategy and institutional setup to respond to future disasters.
66.   Supervision Plan The detailed implementation schedule for the emergency operation will
remain uncertain until the full impact of the 1997-98 El Ninio event is known. Notwithstanding
the uncertainty, a supervision plan for the first phase until mid 1998 has been drawn up, with later
plans being outlined in broader terms until the anticipated loan closing date of December 31,
2000. Three general principles will govern the initial phase of the supervision plan:
(a)   Close supervision by a core project team, drawn mainly from headquarters because
of the needed expertise in procurement (review/approval of certification audits of
prevention works undertaken by force account during July-December 1997),
financial management to assess the adequacy of the systems in place, resettlement
(review of resettlement plans) and the institutional strengthening component.
(b)   Involvement of the field office in Peru in (a) monitoring on a monthly basis, overall
progress in implementation, in particular status of compliance with disbursement
conditions, and (b) undertaking visits to affected regions as needed using either
Resident Mission staff or local consultants.
(c)   Joint supervision with the IDB project team to ensure close coordination and
synergies in overall supervision effort.
67.   The estimated supervision effort in the first 7 months of supervision (December 1997-June
1998) would be 22 staff weeks of mainly Bank headquarters staff and some local staff .
Supervision activities in this period will likely to include a project launch workshop and a full
supervision mission complemented by field visits from local staff and consultants.
Table 7: Supervision Activities Planned Until June 1998
Activity                  Timing             Priority Skills Needed
Initial Supervision Mission   December 1997  Procurement, disbursement,
and Project Launch                           institutional
Workshop
First full supervision mission  March 1998   Flood, drought, institutional,
resettlement, legal
Second supervision mission  June-July 1998   Flood, drought, institutional
68.   The supervision plan for the period July 1998 until December 2000 when the project is
scheduled to close would be determined by the scope and duration of the disaster emergency
which may not be known until mid 1998. On the assumption of a moderate to severe El Nifio
event (which has guided reconstruction estimates in this report), the main objectives of the
supervision plan would be as follows:



- 26 -
(a)   Two superviision mission per year from headquarters on average 20 staff weeks per
year.
(b)   Increasing delegation to Resident Mission to expedite decision making on
operational issues, including procurement, once the necessary expertise is recruited
and/or established in the Resident Mission (by mid 1998). Field visits to affected
areas would be undertaken from the Resident Mission.
(c)   Close Bank-IDB coordination throughout.
(d)   Determination in consultation with the Government, and no later than December
1998, the impact of the disaster emergency, and whether there is a need for partial
or complete cancellation of undisbursed funds.



- 27 -
APPENDIX 1
FLOOD CONTROL WORKS IN THE NORTHERN REGION
WORKS POTENTIALLY ELIGIBLE FOR RETROACTIVE FINANCING
FROM THE PREVENTIVE PHASE OF THE PROJECT
- D epartment  ...... :Sub~.p~ject Name  J               Type   Wor..
Tumbes           Canal Intemational          Rural Drainage Channel Rehabilitation
Rio Tumbes                  River Dredging Works
Esteros Rio Tumbes          Natural Channel Dredging Works
Left Bank Drainage System   Rural Drainage Collector Rehabilitation
Right Bank Drainage System    Rural Drainage Collector Rehabilitation
Quebrada Corrales           Riverbanks Protection Works
Water Intake Left Bank      Protection of Hydraulic if rastructure
Sector la Pena              Strengthening of Walls
Piura            Dren 1308                   Urban/rural Drainage Collector Rehabilitation
Dren Sechura                Urban/Rural Drainage collector Rehabilitation
Rio Piura                   River Dredgino Works
Cesar Vallejo Collector     Urban Drainage Collector Rehabilitation
Ignacio Merino Collector    Urban Drainage Collector Rehabilitation
Gullman Collector           Urban Drainage Collector Rehabilitation
Petroperu Collector         Urban Drainage Collector Rehabilitation
Sullana Collector Sector 1  Rural Drae Colector Rehabiitation
Sullana Collector Sector 2  Rural Drainage CoSector Rehabictation
Sullana Collector Sector 3  Rural Drainage Cotlector Rehabilitation
Sullana Collector Sector 4  Rural Drainage Collector Rehabilitation
Sullana Collector Sector 5  Rural Drainac e Collector Rehabilitation
Castilla Casco Central Collector Urban Drainage Collector Rehabilitation
Estacion de Bombeo          Pumping Station Construction
La Primavera Collector      Urban Drainage Collector Rehabilitation
0           ~~~~Tambo Grande Collector   Rural Drainage Collector Rehabilitation
Desvio Sechura Collector    Rural Drainage Collector Works
Huancabamba Airport         Rain Stoer   Draining System Protection Works
Piura-Huancabamba Road      Road Drainage Protection Works
Piura HuancarbanSc Road     Road Culverts Upgrading
Panamerica-Cruceta Road     Road Dr Wage Protection Works
Puente La Legua Bridge      Bridge Access Protection Works
Carretera Panamericana      Drainage and Culvert Upgrading
Quebrada L-as Lomas         Ravine Bank Protection Works
Huancabamnba River       =  River Bank Protectaon Works
Piura River                 Dike Rockfill Protection Works
Piura River Urban Sectr     River Dredging Works
Piura River Caffasquillo Sector RiUver Dredging Works-



- 28 -
h ''' .. .. .,...,..; h j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
.eP.itet          Sub-rjt Nam                           yeo   ok
El Penal Piura             Rain Storm Drainage Protection Works
Talara Canal Vencedores    Urban Drainage Collector Rehabilitation
Quebrada Cieneguillo Talara   River bank Protection Works
Talara Canal Sudamerica    Urban Drainage System Rehabilitation
Talara Canal Avenida 6     Urban Drainage Collector Rehabilitation
Talara Colector Estadio    Urban Draimage Collector Rehabilitation
Colector Canchari Bellavista    Urban Drainage Collector Rehabilitation
Paita Accesses Roads       Rain Storm Drainage Protection Works
Talara Colector Avenida F  Urban Drainage Protection Works
Zarunilla El Reducto Road  Culvert Road Upgrading and Rehabilitation
Veredas de San Jose        Urban Protection Works
Rio Chira                  River Dredging Works
Diques Rio Piura           Strengthening of existing dikes system
Lambayegue      Enrocado La Leche-Saleno   Rockfill dike Upgrading
Rio La Leche Sector La Junta   River Dredging Works
Rio La Leche Sector Morrope   River Channeling Works
Rio Motupe Sector Puente   River Dredging Works
Pacora
Rio Olmos                  River Dredging Works
Rio Zana                  IRiver Dredging and Canalization Works
Rio Chaman Sector 4+000    River Dredging Works
Rio Chaman Sector 6+800    River Dredging Works
Rio Jequetepeque           River Dredging Works
Rio Salas Sector La Alita  Riverbanks Protection Works
Rio Eten                   Riverbanks Protection Works
Panamericana La Leche      Roads Protection Works
Canal Cois                 Urban Drainage Collector Protection Works
Carretera Olmos Corral     Drainage and Culvert Upgrading
Quemado
Carretera Chiclayo Morrope    Drainage and Culvert Upgrading
Huaca Rajada Sipan         Archeological Site Protection Works
Canal Poulen               Urban Drainage Collector Protection Works
La Libertad     Rio Santa Toma Tanguche    Hydraulic Infrastructure Protection Works
Rio Santa Toma Chavimochic  Hydraulic Infiastructure Protection Works
Rio Santa Sector Guadalupito   Riverbank Protection Works
Rio Santa Sector Urena     Riverbank Protection Works
Rio Chao                   River Channeling and Dredging Works
Rio Huanmanzana            River Channeling and Dredging Works
Rio Chicama Diversion Dam    Hydraulic Infrastructure Protection Works
Rio Chicama                River Dredging Works
Rio Moche                  River Dredging Works
Canal La Mochica           Hydraulic Infrastructure Protection Works
Canal Madre Chavimochic    Hydraulic Infrastructure Protection Works
Evacuador La Agonia        Hydraulic hifastructure Protection Works



-29 -
' _m _- ~.......    ..     .   . ......_
Quebrada Caracol           River Dregig Works
Rio Viru                   River Dredging Works
Porvenir La Cava           Riverbank Protection Works
Rio Huamanzava             Riverbank protection Works
Evacuador La Rinconada     Hydraulic Infrastructure Protection Works
Drenaje Valle Viru          Rural Drainage Collector Rehabilitation
Defensas Chavimochic        Riverbank Protection Works
Drenaje Valle Chao          Rural Drainage Collectors Rehabilitation
Playa Pacasmayo            Rockfill Protection Dykes
Playa Buenos Aires          Rockfill Protection Works
Carretera Trujillo Chiclayo  Drainage and Culverts Upgrading
Puente Careaga Moncada      Bridge Protection Works
Ancash          Rio Santa                   Riverbanks Protection Works
Rio Lacramarca Sector       River Dredging Works
Chimnbote
Rio Lacramarca              River Channeling and Dredging Works
Rio Lacramarca Sector       River Dredging Works
Clemencia
Rio Casma                   Riverbank Protection Works
Rio Santa Sector Rinconada    Riverbank Protection Works
Rio Santa Sector Panamericana Riverbank Protection Works
Rio Santa Sector San Bartolo   Riverbank Protection Works
Enrocado Rio Sechin         Rockfill Protection Dikes
Valle de Casma              Riverbank Protection Works
Rio Yautan                 River Channeling Works
Rio Huari                  Riverbanks Protection Works
Lagunas de Huaraz          Upgrading of Lagoons Protection Works
Cajamarca       Carretera Cajamarca         Drainage and Culverts Upgrading
Cajabamba
Carretera Cumbil Chota     Drainage and Culverts Upgrading
Hidroelectrica La Pelota   Hydraulic hifrastructure Protection Works



- 30 -
APPENDIX 2
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANTS
TO UNDERTAKE INDEPENDENT AUDIT AND VALUATION OF
CIVIL WORKS UNDERTAKEN ON FORCE ACCOUNT AND
TO BE FINANCED RETROACTIVELY
TERMINOS DE REFERENCIA PARA LA CONTRATACION DE FIRMAS
CONSULTORAS PARA LA CERTIFICACION Y AUDITORiA TECNICA DE
INVERSIONES DENTRO DEL PROGRAMA BAJO LA MODALIDAD DE
ADMMISTRACION DIRECTA Y RECONOCIMIENTO DE DIVERSIONES
A.    Obietivo.
1.    El prop6sito de los servicios de consultoria (en adelante "los Consultores") es
proporcionar al Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas y al Banco Mundial Certificaciones sobre
elegibilidad y costo de las obras civiles realizadas por las diversas entidades ejecutoras por
administraci6n directa y/o contratadas en la etapa de prevenci6n del Programa de Emergencia,
hasta por un monto total agregado a ser determinado por el Ministerio de Econonia y Finanzas
(en adelante "el Cliente") pero que, en principio, se estima alrededor de [US$60] 9 millones
equivalente, con el objetivo de solicitar financiamiento retroactivo de tales inversiones. El nivel y
detalle de las certificaciones sera el suficiente para que el Banco Mundial procese las solicitudes
de financiamiento retroactivo de las inversiones con un minimo de verificaci6n. Informaci6n
incompleta certificada por los Consultores podra ser objeto de penalizaci6n de conformidad con
las normas sobre anticorrupci6n y fraude nacionales y del Banco Mundial.
B.    Plan de Trabaio.
Primera actividad: Inventario
2.    Se espera que los Consultores desarrollen sus actividades de conformidad con el Plan de
Trabajo aqui descrito. Si los Consultores desean introducir cambios al Plan de Trabajo
establecido en el contrato, deberan consultar los ajustes propuestos con el Cliente y con el Banco
Mundial antes ejecutar tales cambios. La primera actividad de los servicios consiste en la
obtenci6n y compilaci6n por parte de los Consultores de datos disponibles en el Ministerio de
Economia y Finanzas y en otras dependencias ministeriales y agencias, con el objeto de preparar
un inventario o listado descriptivo de las obras de infraestructura fisica del Programa. El
inventario debera incluir, pero no limitarse a, la siguiente informacion por cada obra identificada:
(a)   localizaci6n por Regi6n, Departainento, Provincia y Distrito;
(b)   nombre de los principales organismos participantes en la ejecuci6n;
(c)   valor presupuestado;
9Los montos indicados entre [ ] son solamente indicativos y deberin ser establecidos por el MEyF



- 31 -
(d)   descripcion fisica;
(e)   progreso fisico de la obra, la fecha de inicio, la fecha de terminaci6n;
(f)   nombre del supervisor o entidad encargada de la supervisi6n;
(g)   en la medida de lo posible, las partidas presupuestarias imputadas; y
(h)   un c6digo unico de obra que servira para prop6sitos de registro, archivo y
comprobaciones de auditoria, supervisi6n o verificaci6n por parte del Banco
Mundial.
3.    El inventario podra incluir obras con un valor superior a un monto minimo que sera
determinado por los Consultores, con vista a las metas financieras de reembolso y financiamiento
retroactivo que el Cliente le informara oportunamente, pero en ningun caso inferiores al
equivalente de [US$100,000] equivalente. Si al momento de iniciarse las actividades, el Cliente
dispone del inventario, los Consultores solamente deberan conocer y familiarizarse con tal
inventario y usarlo como referencia para las siguientes actividades.
Segunda actividad: Determinaci6n de la Prioridad de las Obras para Certificaci6n
4.    Una vez concluido el inventario general, los Consultores determinaran la prioridad para la
selecci6n de las obras que seran objeto de certificaci6n, generalmente escogiendo las obras de
mayor valor en primera instancia. En la determinaci6n de la lista preliminar de obras sujetas a
certificaci6n, los Consultores deberan tomar en cuenta:
(a)   que las obras hayan sido contratadas en alguna forma;
(b)   que un porcentaje estimado del [25%] de las obras en tal lista podrian no reunir la
informaci6n o condiciones apropiadas para producir una certificaci6n final en el
corto plazo;
(c)   que el Banco Mundial podria contribuir al financiamiento parcial de las obras por
un monto que oscilaria entre [50% y 60%] del costo certificado; y
(d)   que el costo certificado podria diferir substancialmente respecto al costo estimado
o documentado de las obras. Los consultores deberan informar al Cliente sobre la
fista preliminar a examinar.
Tercera actividad: Formacion de los Equipos de Trabajo
5.    Una vez establecido el orden de prioridad para el trabajo de certificaci6n, los Consultores
procederan a establecer equipos de trabajo para cada una de las Regiones, Provincias u obras, u
otra forma de organizaci6n que los Consultores consideren a su juicio apropiado para la ejecuci6n
oportuna de las tareas, asegurando que la metodologia y estandar de calidad de la Certificaci6n a
ser emitida es uniforme. Antes de la movilizaci6n y el trabajo de campo, los Consultores deberan
informar al Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas sobre la formaci6n de los Grupos de Trabajo. En
cada caso, los equipos deberan estar encabezados por profesionales en ingenieria de reconocida



- 32-
reputaci6n y acompafiados de expertos en contabilidad y otras disciplinas. Los Consultores
deberan proporcionar a sus equipos una estrecha supervision de los equipos para asegurar su
independencia de criterio y las normas de desempefno.
Cuarta actividad: Trabajo de Campo y Producci6n de Certificados
6.    Una vez completado el trabajo de campo y revisi6n de pruebas documentales, los
Consultores deberan compilar y procesar la informaci6n recopilada, ampliar la base de datos y
establecer una lista borrador de obras certificables. Si los numeros satisfacen las metas, los
Consultores deberan proceder con la etapa final de certificacion que consiste en la emisi6n del
borrador de la lista final y los correspondientes Certificados que podran constituir las solicitudes
de desembolso.
7.    Si por el contrario, los resultados de la visita al campo y el procesamiento de la
informaci6n derivada anticipa insuficiencia en los montos que seran sujetos de certificaci6n, los
Consultores deberan informar prontamente al Cliente y al Banco Mundial sobre esta situacion y
proponer las soluciones para aumentar el nuimero de actividades o acciones que conduzcan a
incrementar los desembolsos de la porci6n retroactiva del financiamiento.
C.    Metodolofia de Revisi6n v Certificaci6n
8.    Los Consultores deberin emplear tecnicas de metrado de cantidades de las obras,
comprobacion de registros y datos de costos disponibles en las zonas donde se efectuan o
efectuaron las obras. Tales tecnicas deberin ser consistentes con pricticas internacionalmente
reconocidas de ingenieria y de auditoria tecnica que aseguren un alto nivel de confiabilidad y
precision, que a su vez, aseguren al Cliente y al Banco Mundial que ha habido un uso adecuado,
econ6mico y eficiente de los recursos empleados dentro de las circunstancias de emergencia del
Proyecto.
9.    En las visitas de campo, los Consultores deberan comprobar la exdstencia de las obras,
mediante tareas que pudieran incluir, pero no limitarse a, la combinaci6n de las siguientes
tecnicas:
(a)   comprobaciones fisicas;
(b)   mediciones topogrificas;
(c)   pruebas de laboratorio geotecnicos;
(d)   entrevistas a los directores de las obras, personal tecnico, supervisores,
interventores, contratistas, operadores y beneficiarios;
(e)   comprobaciones de facturaciones realizadas por contratistas y proveedores; y
(f)   comprobaciones de registros y libros de contratistas y proveedores, en el niumero
y la naturaleza que los Consultores juzguen apropiado para rendir un testimonio



- 33 -
fidedigno, que a su vez, permita una determinaci6n precisa y una descripci6n
certificada sobre los volumenes y caracteristicas de las obras.
D.    Valuacion de las Obras v Costo Certificado
10.   Una vez determinada las caracteristicas fisicas y volumetricas de las obras seleccionadas,
los Consultores procederan a establecer un costo certificado. Este costo certificado individual
debera elaborarse y mantenerse en forma confidencial por lo menos hasta la revisi6n del borrador
de la lista final de obras certificadas por parte del Cliente.
11.   En la elaboraci6n del costo certificado, los Consultores tendran en cuenta los precios de
mercado, la naturaleza de emergencia de las obras, la lejania de las obras, la experiencia de los
Consultores, las contribuciones en especie, el costo del combustible, el trabajo comunal y
voluntario, la contribuci6n material, intelectual y administrativa de los organismos ejecutores,
incluyendo las intervenciones por parte del Cuerpo de Ingenieros de las FF.AA., los registros
contables y presupuestarios y toda otra informacion que a juicio de los Consultores ileve a una
determinaci6n de un valor certificable de las obras para los prop6sitos de reconocimiento de
inversiones por parte del Banco Mundial tomando en cuenta que el Banco no financia impuestos o
trabajos ejecutados por intervenciones militares.
12.   Los Consultores mantendran una memoria de calculo de sus estimaciones que llevaron a la
determinaci6n del valor certificado por cada una de las obras. El Cliente tendri acceso, por
pedido o inspecci6n, a tales memorias de calculo y podra solicitar a los Consultores que excluyan
cualquier obra de la certificaci6n final, cuando, en opinion del Cliente, el costo a ser certificado
resulte excesivamente diferente por exceso o defecto de sus propios registros o noci6n de costo.
13.   En ningiun caso, el Cliente podri pedir que se corrija el monto certificado, excepto cuando
a juicio del Cliente, la discrepancia se pueda deber a omisiones significativas, en cuyo caso, a
juicio del Cliente, se podra discutir con el Banco Mundial la conciliaci6n de tales discrepancias.
14.   Los Consultores presentaran un borrador de listado de obras certificadas, en el plazo abajo
sefialando, con indicacion del monto certificado en el formato acordado con el Banco Mundial. El
Cliente dispondra de tres dias para opinar sobre el borrador y presentar a los Consultores una lista
de exclusiones y una lista de discrepancias senialando errores significativos.
15.   En el termino de dos dias a partir de la recepcion de las listas de exclusiones y
correcciones, los Consultores procederan a emitir:
(a)   una lista final de obras certificadas acompaniadas de su certificado individual para
cada obra, eliminando la obras excluidas por el Cliente y efectuando las
correcciones que a su juicio si pudieran obedecer a errores, empleando el formato
acordado con el Banco Mundial para prop6sito de reconocimiento y desembolso; y
(b)   una lista obras con las discrepancias sefialadas por el Cliente junto con su opini6n
sobre errores sefialados, memoria de costos y toda informaci6n que considere
conveniente presentar para la conciliaci6n de discrepancias con el Banco Mundial
arriba apuntada.



- 34 -
16.   Una vez emitida la lista final, los Consultores podran emitir suplementos a la lista final de
obras certificadas conforme las discrepancias se resuelven o para incorporar obras adicionales de
conformidad con el progreso de su trabajo para complementar las metas financieras que resulten
despues de efectuados los primeros desembolsos.
17.   Los costos certificados seran expresados en d6lares equivalentes al tipo de cambio
promedio del mes en que se realizaron los trabajos y tales calculos deberan ser reflejados en las
hojas de calculo de cada obra.
18.   Los Consultores mantendrAn registros ordenados y consistentes con la hoja de inventario y
la lista final disponibles para los auditores, inspectores que el Cliente o el Banco Mundial designen
para sus prop6sitos de comprobaci6n, muestreo o desembolso.
19.   Los Consultores no estAn obligados a ofrecer explicaciones detalladas al Cliente sobre la
imposibilidad de certificar obras incluidas en el listado preliminar, pudiendo limitarse a indicar
que, en su opini6n, la informaci6n compilada o disponible al momento de su asignaci6n era
insuficiente para certificar las obras realizadas de conformidad con estos Terminos de Referencia.
Los Consultores podran sin embargo ofrecer al Cliente recomendaciones de las acciones que los
organismos ejecutores podrian tomar para elevar el nivel de informaci6n disponible sobre obras
especificas que puedan ser certificadas con posterioridad.
E.    Porcentaie de Financiamiento
20.   Eni base al listado final de obras certificadas, los Consultores deberan incluir en el
certificado individual de las obras una recomendaci6n del porcentaje de financiamiento por parte
del Banco Mundial y la Contraparte Nacional.
21.   Al presentar su recomendaci6n de financiamiento, los Consultores tomaran en cuenta:
(a)   el uso y depreciaci6n de maquinaria o el valor de otros insumos que pudiesen
haberse sido objeto de financiamiento separado;
(b)   el monto de los impuestos nacionales o de importaci6n que los OMF no pueden
financiar;
(c)   la contribuci6n del Cuerpo de Ingenieros de las FF.AA. o de otras fuentes de
ayuda o financiamiento que pudiesen estar asociados al costo de cada una de las
obras;
(d)   el grado de conexi6n de las obras con el Fen6meno de El Nifio y la emergencia; y
(e)   la elegibilidad de los bienes y servicios por fuente de financiamniento.
22.   No obstante la referida recomendaci6n, el Cliente podra considerar y solicitar a las fuentes
de financiamiento porcentajes por encimna o por debajo de tal recomendaci6n en base a razones
que discutira con los Consultores, y cuya opini6n, sera dada a conocer al Banco Mundial en cada
caso.



- 35 -
F.    Certificaci6n de las Obras
23.   La certificacion final de las obras consiste en un listado general y sumatoria de montos
certificados y certificados individuales de cada obra incluida en el listado. El certificado individual
incluiri, pero no se limitara, a la siguiente:
(a)   informaci6n indicada en B. 1 arriba;
(b)   costo certificado expresado en US$ equivalentes;
(c)   recomendaci6n del porcentaje de financiamiento establecida en el parrafo E. 19;
(d)   una declaraci6n jurada de los Consultores de que la informaci6n contenida en el
Certificado es cierta, fidedigna, incondicionada y que representa a su mas leal saber
y entender el costo razonable y las caracteristicas fisicas de las obras; y
(e)   la certificaci6n de la elegibilidad de la obra de conformidad con los acuerdos del
Cliente y el Banco Mundial.
24.   El modelo de certificaci6n sera identico para todas las obras en el listado final.
Certificaciones parciales o condicionadas no seran consideradas como certificados validos.
G.   Auditorias tecnicas v sugervisi6n de obras.
25.   La participaci6n de los Consultores en el proceso de certificaci6n no impediria a los
consultores participar en las contrataciones de servicios de ingenieria y supervisi6n o de auditoria
tecnica de otras obras dentro de los alcances del Proyecto de Emergencia.
H.   Forma de Pago.
26.   Se negociari con los Consultores una forma de pago proporcional al costo certificado de
las obras, que podri ser variable por Regi6n o por tipo de obra vial, hidraulica fluvial, agricola,
protecci6n maritima, proteccion de infraestructura, pero que en ningun caso podra exceder [1%]
del costo certificado. Una vez acordado el costo proporcional que sera determinado sobre la base
de la lista preliminar, el porcentaje sera fijo y no sera objeto de ajuste alguno.
27.   Si el Banco Mundial llegase a rechazar alguna certificaci6n en sus pruebas o controles, se
penalizara a los Consultores en un monto comnensurado al perjuicio que se cause al Cliente.
28.    Con el objeto de compensar a los Consultores por los gastos incurridos respecto a obras
que no puedan ser certificadas, u obras que el Cliente decida excluir del proceso de certificaci6n o
que estan sujetas a conciliaci6n, el Cliente pagari a los Consultores tarifas fijas adicionales al
porcentaje pagado por cada certificaci6n como sigue:
(a)   al inicio de los trabajos la suma de [US$    ] equivalentes como pago inicial
contra la presentaci6n de una garantia bancaria por igual monto, que no sera



-36 -
deducida de los pagos parciales; la garantia seri devuelta al t6enino de los
servicios;
(b)    a la presentaci6n de la lista preliminar la suma de [US$   I equivalentes como
pago parcial y unTico por el trabajo de procesamiento, elaboraci6n de la base de
datos;
(c)    a la presentaci6n del borrador de lista final la suma de (US$   I equivalentes como
pago parcial y iunico por el trabajo de selecci6n de obras certificables;
(d)   una suma fija equivalente a [US$  I equivalentes por cada obra que el Consultor
certifique y que el Cliente decida excluir del listado para reembolso
(e)    una suma fija equivalente a [US$   I equivalentes por cada obra que el Consultor
certifique y que el Cliente discrepe por raz6n de errores significativos, sujeta a
discusi6n, monto que se deduciri del pago porcentual si finalmente se acuerda
incorporar la obra a la lista final o se acreditari al pago establecido en (d) arriba si
se excluye.
29.   Gastos de servicios de fotograffa aerea, traslado por avi6n o helic6ptero y de emergencia
o rescate sera reembolsados al Consultor si son autorizados previamente por el Cliente y que en
ning6n caso deberan exceder en agregado un monto de (US$  I equivalente.
L     Informes
30.   Los Consultores presentaran los siguientes informados en dias calendario a partir de la
firma del contrato o carta de intencion:
(a)   informe inicial dentro de los primeros cinco dias;
(b)   infonne del inventario preliminar dentro de los primeros diez dias;
(c)    dictamen sobre suficiencia de las obras certificadas dentro de los cinco dias
siguientes a la terminacion del trabajo de campo;
(d)   borrador de la lista final de obras certificadas dentro de los diez dias siguientes a la
terminaci6n del trabajo de campo;
(e)   lista final dos dias despues de recibidas la lista de exclusiones o correcciones;
(f)   lista final y certificados antes del 30 de Noviembre de 1997; y
(g)   informe final al termino del contrato.



-37 -
APPENDIX 3
DROUGHT COMPONENT SIERRA SUR
BACKGROUND
1.    While drought is a constant threat to agricultural production in the Sierra Sur, records
show that its effects are strengthened in El Ninio years, with particular devastation during the last
strong El Niiio of 1982-83. During that year, according to data from NOAA, damages to the
economy of the Altiplano of Peru and Bolivia were estimated to be US$250 million.
2.    During 1982-83 estimates for the Department of Puno (Ministerio de Agricultura) show
that crop production was reduced by 70%, while livestock sales increased by 25%. These
increased sales were forced due to the lack of forage. Because of the decimation of livestock
herds and the lack of food in local markets, the social effects of the drought were devastating,
resulting in mass migration from rural communities to urban centers in search of employment.
3.   In areas such as Puno, which has a very fragile natural resource base, the effects of the
drought had consequences for several years, with the lack of seed for sowing, and the slow
recuperation of animal herds.
CHARACTERISTICS OF THE DROUGHT AREA
4.    The Government's emergency program for drought areas covers seven departments,
naamely, Apurimac, Arequipa, Ayacucho, Cusco, Moquegua, Puno, and Tacna. Social and
production data for Puno, are shown in Table 1, which is the department most likely to be
affected by the drought and in which much of the Govemment's drought prevention and
alleviation program is focused.
5.    The sector is dominated by minifundio and low levels of productivity. Farms are
segmented and highly dispersed. For example, it is not unusual that a farmer may have two
hectares of crops which are divided into ten different units, and scattered throughout his
community. Availability of working capital is scarce and this has been one of the principal factors
why irrigation schemes have not prospered. It is also a principal reason why the farming
community cannot develop preventive measures to combat the expected drought due to the El
Nino phenomenon, and why the government has to step in with temporary measures to produce
forage in these irrigated areas.



-38-
..  ......     ......   ... .   .,.. .                            . .. ,............... . .....        ........... ....,,,,,,.,,,.,,,. ,
,,'.' ..'..'..'.................... ''"
.-....... .......... .........  ... . ... m ..............              ................... 
No. of Farmers                    184018
Men                               137640             75%O/
Women                             46378              25%
No of Farms                      184610
Cultivated Area (Fa)             363863
Native Pastures (Ha)             3485810
Irrigated Area (Ha)               14313
Crops 96-97                    Area (Has)         Production       Yield
(Tons)      (Tons/Ha)
Potatoes                          41960             239280          5.70
Barley                            21900              20440          0.93
Barley Forage                     17635             177080         10.04
Quinua                            17870              14170          0.79
Oats                              3609               2810           0.78
Oats Forage                       20600             253270         12.29
Faba Beans                         6530              6070           0.93
Canihua                           5500               3360           0.61
Total                             135604
Livestock 96-97                   Head
Cattle                           547000
Sheep                            3100000
Camelids                         1500000
6.    The principal activity is livestock production, the main products being milk, meat, and
wool (both sheep and alpaca). Pasture production is mainly in rainfed areas, and is based on low
yielding native pasture. Crop production is almost entirely at subsistence levels and is
characterized by extremely low productivity levels (yields/ha).
THE PROPOSED DROUGHT EMERGENCY PREVENTION PROGRAM
7.    Because of the lack of capacity of the minifundio to embark on a program of emergency
measures to combat the expected drought, for the reasons given above, it is necessary for the
government to initiate a series of short term activities to alleviate the possible effects of the
drought. It is important to understand that these are stop gap measures, and until a coherent
strategy is developed for agriculture in the Altiplano and Sierra Sur, in which the roles of State
and private sector are clearly defined, and appropriate policies put in place, emergencies such as
this will continue to be the responsibility of the government. It is important therefore that in the



- 39 -
agricultural sector study being prepared by the GOP and the World Bank, these drought affected
areas receive due attention.
8.    The following activities are proposed for financing;
(a)   the rehabilitation of existing wells and irrigation systems;
(b)   a forage production program; and
(c)   a seed production program.
(a) Rehabilitation of Existing Wells and Irrigation Systems.
9.    As a drought prevention measure in the Sierra Sur, it is necessary to ensure that existing
water resources are operative for human and animal consumption and where possible for small
irrigation systems.
10.   Rehabilitation of deep tubular wells. In the department of Puno, there are a series of
deep tubular wells that are not functioning for various reasons, among which are lack of
maintenance and the lack of appropriate equipment. Such wells can be rehabilitated, and used for
irrigation purposes on small areas. Of the 100 existing wells only 25 are now operational and the
remaining 75 need to be made operational. These wells vary in depth from 30 to 80 meters and
have a capacity of between 25 and 45 liters per second. The rehabilitation of these well will be
carried out by the Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales (INRENA) and the Programa de
Aguas Subterrdneasy Tecnificaci6n de Riego (PRASTER), which are local agencies. Both
agencies are now working on drought prevention measures in Puno in collaboration with the
Comites de Regantes of each of the wells under repair. The distribution of the work and the
budget are presented in Table 2. Among the activities to be financed are cleaning of the existing
wells, repairs and replacement of pumps, and tests for pump capacity and quality of water.
Table 2. Rehabilitation of deep tubular wells
Institution   No. of wells      Beneficiaries       Cost / unit   Total Cost
Families       Has.         US$          US$
INRENA          39          650          1200        14,000       550,000
PRASTER         36           720          1100        14,000       500,000
Total         75          1370         2300                     1,050,000
11.   Rehabilitation of Small Wells. Also in the department of Puno, there are a series of
shallow wells which can be used for human and animal consumption. These need to be equipped
and made functional. This sub-component will rehabilitate existing wells and install 3500 manual
pumps throughout the department of Puno. It is estimated that the cost of rehabilitating and
installing each pump will be US$225. The work is already being carried out by the Direccion



- 40 -
Regional del Ministerio de Agricultura as part of its drought prevention work. A summary is
presented in Table 3.
Table 3. Rehabilitation of Small Wells
Institution        No. of wells        Beneficiaries        Total Cost
No. Families            US$
MINAG                3,500               31,500             787,500
12.   Rehabilitation of Existing Irrigation Infrastructure. Throughout the Sierra Sur there
exist several irrigation systems that are not fully operational for the following reasons; incomplete
works such as lateral canals, deterioration and lack of maintenance. In some cases these problems
are exacerbated by the lack of credit for farmers to fully exploit the installed irrigation system,
and the absence of effective user organizations. PRONAMACH has already started on the
rehabilitation of a number of these irrigation schemes throughout the Sierra Sur as part of its
drought prevention work. This work covers 94 irrigation projects spread throughout the 7
departments that have been declared in a state of emergency. This sub-component is summarized
in Table 4.
Table 4. Rehabilitation of existing Irrigation Schemes
No       Department              Beneficiaries          N° of Proj    Cost (US$)
Families      Hectares
1       Apurimac                1,437          814            14         273,000
2        Arequipa                575           909            9           103,000
3       Ayacucho                2,048         1,267           26         515,000
4        Cusco                  1,225          723            17          27,000
5  Moquegua               611           470            6           44,000
6       Puno                    1,260         1,262           19         281,000
7       Tacna                   1,007          770            3           14,000
=   TOTAL             8,163         6,215           94         1,500,000
(b) Forage Production Program
13.   One of the most devastating effects of the major drought of 1982-83, which coincided
with the El Nifno phenomenon, was the forced sale of livestock and the slow recuperation of the
herd because of the lack of forage. Because of the lack of capital in the minifundio in the irrigated
areas, farmers are not in a position to embark on a new forage program and the experience of
1982-83 is likely to be repeated in the event of a drought.
14.   Therefore as a prevention measure, the Ministry of Agriculture has embarked on a forage
production program in the irrigated areas of Puno. The program is being coordinated in the field
by the Insfituto Nacional de Investigacion Agropecuaria (INIA) and is being implemented by
various government agencies in collaboration with farmers in the existing irrigation schemes. The



- 41 -
strategy being implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture is to sow annual forage crops such as
barley and oats along with a small amount of perennial pastures. The agreement between the
Ministry and the farmers stipulates that the harvest will be divided in equal parts between the
parties. It is estimated that under irrigation yields of green forage can reach 30 tons/hectare. The
total projected harvest is calculated to provide forage for the equivalent of 50,000 cattle or
300,000 sheep, or 200,000 camelids for a period of seven months which are estimated to be
period of severe shortages of forage in the case of a drought. The areas selected and the crops
being sown are shown in Table 5.
15.   The program was reviewed in the week of October 13, 1997. About 2,000 hectares have
been ploughed and about 500 hectares have been sown to oats and barley. It is planned that
sowing should be finished by December 31. The Ministry of Agriculture has bought 100 new
tractors to complete this task. At the moment, about 72 tractors are filly operational. The other
tractors are not filly equipped as yet.
16.   The project was judged to be technically feasible, since the soils on which the project is
planned are relatively productive if irrigation is assured. Other aspects of the technology package
to be applied i.e. crops, varieties, fertilizer, seeding density etc. are also thought to be adequate.
However, the mission had misgivings as to the logistical scale of the activity, and has
recommended and agreed with the Ministry of Agriculture to cut back the area sown from the
planned 20,000 hectares to 10,000 hectares. It was felt that the quality of the work could not be
assured on the bigger area.



- 42 -
Table 5. Distribution of Areas for Forage Production and Implementing Agencies
Implementing      Location      Area        Oats       Barley   New Pastures
Agencies                                             (has)       (has)
(has)      (has)
CTR MTP            Melgar              1500         850        600           50
PRORRIDRE          Azangaro            1000         380        550           70
Sub Total          2500        1230        1150          120
D.R.AGRICULT.   El Collao               150         100         30           20
Puno                200         110          70           20
San Roman           350         210         110           30
Huancane            170         100          60           10
Melgar              420         150         180           40
Lampa               270         150         100           20
S.A. Putina         150         100          80           20
Azangaro            130          60          50           20
Chucuito             80          40          35            5
Yunguyo              40          20          15            5
Moho                 40          20          15            5
Sub Total          2000        1060        745           195
INIA               San Roman          3000         1500       1200          300
Lampa              1000         500         400          100
Sub Total          4000        2000        1600          400
EJERCITO 4ta DI   Collao        500        250         200         50
Puno               1000         460         305          235
Sub Total          1500         710        505           285
TOTAL                    10000        5000        4000         1000



- 43 -
Table 6. Forage Production Program Budget
Umt   ...........    ~ii.               .Tta
Sty~~~~~~~~..... . S.....
I. Seed
- Rye Grass "Nui"   Kg.          10,000       6.90      69,000
- Dactylis "Apanui"  Kg.          7,000.      7.56      52,920
White Clover "Hulia"    Kg        2,000      12.73      25,460
Red Clover          Kg.           1,000      13.75      13,750
"Queniqueli"
- Alfalfa "Ranguer 6
Saranac"            Kg.          10,000      12.86     128,600
Oats "Tayco,"
"Vilcanota"
"MANTARO 15"    Kg.           625,000       1.80    1,125,000
- Barley "UNA-80"   Kg.         500,000       1.35     675,000
- Barley "GRINON"    Kg.                _         _
Sub Total                      1,155,000              2,089,730      773,974
II. Fertilizers
- Urea           Bag (50 Kg)     21,288      45.00     957,960
- Dianumonium    Bag (50 Kg)     23,856      45.00    1,073,520
Phosphate
- Rock Phosphate   Bag (50 Kg)    2,120      25.00      53,000
Sub Total                        45,144               2,031,480      752,400
III. Inoculants
- Rhyzomnack:       Bag           1,000      25.00      25,000
clover, alfalfa
Sub Total                         1,000                 25,000         9,259
IV. Machinery (*)
- Tractor           hours       163,000      25.00    4,075,000
Sub Total                       163,000               4,075,000    1,509,259
V. Labor
- Days              Man         350,000      10.00
Sub Total
VI. Land
Rent                has          10,000    150.00
Sub Total
VII. Technical Assistance and
Supervision_(**) __ _ _ _ __              _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _
International       has          10,000                383,261       60,000
Consultants
Sub Total                        10,000                383,261       201,948
VIII.  Training(***)   no. promot.       900                958,153
Sub Total                           900                958,153       354,871



- 44 -
Table 6. Forage Production Program Budget
~~~~~~~~~~...............    ,{.......      ... ...,,......
LY. Infrastructure
- Transport
. Pick-ups        unit             8     54,000      432,000
. Motorcycles    -unit             7     10,800       75,600
- Storage           unit              5      5,400      27,000
- Equipment
. Computers       unit             2      6,000       12,000
. Soil analysis   unit             1    35,000        35,000
. Pasture analysis   unit          1    45,000    45,000.00
. Audiovisuals               nld        n/d          25,000
Office supplies                 n/d        n/d          30,000 _____
Sub Total                          0.00 ____           681,600       252,444
X. Fuel and lubricants
- Fuel             gallon         7,200       5.00      36,000
- Lubricats                         600       5.00       3,000 ______
Sub Total                         7      __8W_          39,000        14,444
XI. Travel
_____ ____ ____ ____n/d               n/d           12,000    _ _ _ _ _ _
Sub Total                             0 ____e_          12,000         4,444
Transport            Tn.          8,750      25.00     218,750 ______
Sub Total                         8,750(____           218,750        81,018
XII. Administration
- Salaries       Man/months         240|     1,500     360,000
- Per diem       Man/months         240      1,000     240,000 ______
Sub Total        ______480 ____                        600,000       222,222
XIII. Contingencies                        5                531,098 ______
Sub Total                           485  ____          531,098       196,703
TOTA1L                                               11,645,073    4,372,990
(c) Seed Production Program
17.     Based on the experience ofthe 1982-83 drought and other drought hit areas around the
world the rate of recuperation of crop production is slow. One of the ingredients in hastening this
recuperation is an ample supply of good quality seed for the subsequent sowing season. For such
an eventuality, a seed production program needs to be put in place immediately. Such a seed
production program would consist of crops that provide the basic foods and forage for the area,
namely, potatoes, quinua, canihua, barley, oats, faba beans and tarwi.
18. This program would be implemented by INIA, and the Universidad Nacional Agraria
(IJNA) which have as a main part of their research strategy to provide seed for the basic food
crops of Peru. Sowing was starting in October 1997. It is proposed to finance the sowing of



- 45 -
2,660 hectares, all under irrigation, with a total seed production of 20,157 tons at an estimated
cost of US$2.73 million. Cost and production data for the proposed program are presented in
Tables 7 and 8.
Table 7. Seed Production Program: Input Costs (US$/ha)
Crop       Seed    Fert    Pest   Mach   Labor   Total
Quinua       7       101      82       66      109      364
Potatoes     800      290      180     130      600     2000
Canihua       3       80       60      72       120     335
Barley       53      89       80       80      160      462
Oats        60       80      72       72      144      428
Faba Beans     64      53       107      71      128      423
Tarwi       57       57       57      76       114     360
Table 8. Seed Production Program: Area and Total Costs
Crop    Area   Cost/ha   Total cost  Production  Total Production
(US$)     (US$)      (Tons/ha)        (Tons)
Potatoes   1000    2000     2000000        16           16000
Barley    800     462      369600         2.8           2240
Quinua    80      364       29120         1.9            152
Oats    500      428      214000         2.6           1275
Faba     200     423       84600         1.8            360
Beans
Canihua    20      335       6700          2              40
Tarwi    60       380       22800        1.5             90
Total   2660              2726820                      20157
Table 9: Cost Summary by Component and Phase
(US$)
Component       Costs US$ million
Rehabilitation of        3.4
Irrigation
Forage Production         4.4
Program
Seed Production          2.7
Program
Total               10.5



- 46 -
Environmental Impact
19.   The overall environmental impact of this operation should be positive. The rehabilitation
of the irrigation schemes is in areas that have sufficient water resources and will not put extra
pressure on the existing water resources. Moreover, increased productivity in the irrigation
schemes should reduce farming pressure on more fragile environments such as hillsides.
Likewise, the forage production program will be conducted on stable soils, in irrigated areas. The
pesticides that will be used will be herbicides, and will be used in doses that are recommended for
efficient use. Increased forage production will alleviate the effects of overgrazing in more fragile
environments during the drought period. The rural public works program will be geared
specifically towards those works that preserve the natural resource base, such as the repair of
terraces and the improvement of rainfall infiltration.
Sustainability
20.   All of the activities that are proposed for financing in this drought component for the
Sierra Sur, are designed with the long term sustainability of the agricultural system and its natural
resource base in mind. The repair of the irrigation systems should improve productivity on the
more stable soils and relieve the pressure on the more fragile hillside soils. These works should
also improve the efficiency of existing water resources. The forage production program will
allow farmers to maintain their herds and therefore avoid their forced sale and subsequent
deterioration. This forage program should also mitigate the effects of overgrazing in the event of
a drought and the subsequent deserfification which is a latent problem in the Altiplano. The seeds
program will bring new seeds to the agricultural system, which should result in stable yields. The
rural public works program is oriented in its entirety to stabilizing the soil resources of the
hillsides with its emphasis on repair and building of terraces, and the construction of infiltration
canals.



-47 -
APPENDIX 4
PREPARATION OF A COMPREHENSIVE DISASTER FORECASTING.
PREVENTION. RELIEF AND MITIGATION STRATEGY
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
There are, at present, many public sector agencies and NGOs involved in one way or
another, and with varying degrees of efficiency, in disaster forecasting, mitigation, prevention,
monitoring and relief There does not appear to exist, however, a clear-cut, comprehensive
strategy and institutional setup in this regard. As a result, there is not one single top-level
institution which, cutting across sectors, would be effectively responsible for designing and
implementing disaster-related activities. The actual roles of the different public sector agencies
are sometimes parallel or overlap with each other, and do not necessarily reflect their legal
mandates. And the relationship between the public sector agencies and NGOs is not always as
effective as would be desirable, even though it would be important for Government to avail itself
of the skills and experience that some NGOs have amassed over time, as well as their close
contacts with local populations. This sub-component will help the GOP design a comprehensive
strategy for disaster forecasting and management.
The objectives of this study are:
(a)    To evaluate existing institutions and current practices in disaster forecasting,
prevention, mitigation, monitoring and relief in Peru,
(b)   To compare the existing situation in Peru against worldwide best practice, and
(c)   To recommend a comprehensive strategy for eventual adoption by the
Government.
Methodology.
(1)   The consultant will identify all the institutions that currently play a significant role in
disaster forecasting, prevention, mitigation, monitoring and relief in Peru. These institutions may
be public sector agencies °, non-governmental organizations" or private sector entities .
10 For instance, the Instituto Geoflsico del Peri (IGP), the Servicio Nacional de Meteorologla e Hidrologia
(SENAMI), the Insfituto Nacional de Defensa Civil (INDECI), the Instituto del Mar del Pera} (MARPE),
the Consejos Transitorios de Administraci6n Regional (CTARs) and/or other authorities at the regional level,
the municipalites, the districts, the Comites de Emergencia, Colegio de Ingenieros del PerM, Colegio de
Arquitectos del Perm, public universities.
For instance, the PREDES, rTDG, Cruz Roja Peruana, Caritas.



- 48 -
The consultant will meet with managers and/or staff of each one of these institutions,
collect and fully familiarize her/himself with relevant written information.
The consultant will prepare a descriptive inventory (diagnostic) of each one of those
institutions, identify their specific institutional objectives (in connection with disaster forecasting,
prevention, mitigation and relief), and ascertain the actual experience each one of them has had in
these four "aspects'13 in connection with recent disasters, particularly since the early 1980's.
The consultant will also ascertain, for each institution, the resources available to them to
carry out its tasks, and the efficiency (cost-effectiveness) with which they use resources in order
to attain their stated objectives.
The consultant will actively seek to understand, for each institution, exactly: (a) what and
how it is supposed to do according to its written mandate; (b) what and how it actually does --
which may or may not be fully consistent with its written mandate; (c) which of its activities
overlap, duplicate or are in conflict, with those of other institutions; and (d) any relevant
constraints, institutional or other, under which it operates.
(2)    The consultant will carry out a comparison between the institutional setup and practices
currently existing in Peru and the best practice available elsewhere in the world. The consultant
will ensure that comparisons are based on facts and clear evidence.
(3)    The consultant will submit an interim report on her/his findings resulting from steps (1)
and (2). The purpose of this interim report would be to elicit Government's views and reactions
before going ahead with the next and final step of the process.
(4)    The consultant will prepare action-oriented recommendations for submission to
Government. The recommendations will be formulated in a manner that makes them amenable to
discussion, debate and decision making within Government with a view to their eventual adoption
as Government's own comprehensive strategy for disaster forecasting and management.
In preparing her/his recommendation, the consultant will keep in mind a number of
important considerations:
(a)    the consultant should indicate how the recommended institutional setup will ensure
that there will be an effective authority that will be able to carry out disaster-
related activities across sectors, regions and levels of government;
(b)    the amount of recommended institutional restructuring and inevitable dislocation
will be kept to a minimum;
12For instance, private universities, private insurance industry.
13 As part of the review of prevention and mitigation activities, the consultant will take a look at institutions
responsible for preparing, and recommending adoption of, building codes (use of hazard resistant building
techniques and standards this is particularly relevant in a country like Peru with significant frequency of
seismic phenomena), and regulations regarding prudent land use planning (particularly in flood-prone
measures).



-49 -
(c)   where applicable, recommendations will be clearly labeled as short-term, medium-
term or long-term;
(d)   it would be important to clearly identify areas where cost effectiveness and
institutional efficiency and coordination may be improved;
(e)   resource requirements, for start up and on a recurrent basis, will be identified;
(f)   if, as is likely to happen, the consultant calls for the private sector, local
communities and NGOs to play a role in disaster management, the
recommendations should elaborate on the modalities under which they will
coordinate with public sector agencies; and
(g)   specialized skllls requirements in disaster forecasting, prevention, mitigation,
monitoring and relief will be identified, and training programs will be proposed.
Oualifications of the consultant.
The consultant should be familiar with best practice worldwide in the area of disaster
forecasting, prevention, mitigation and relief. The consultant should be fluent in Spanish and have
an adequate knowledge of the South American context.



- 50 -
APPENDIX 5
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND CAPACITY BUILDING
1.    This sub-component aims to strengthen the capacity of Peruvian institutions responsible
for collecting data, predicting, monitoring, and better responding to future El Ni o episodes. In
contrast with the emergency nature of this operation, this component is expected to increase the
likely long-term, sustainable impact of Bank involvement.
2.    In consultation with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, four institutions have been
targeted to receive support under this component. All of them are statutory members of the
"Estudio Regional del Fen6meno de El Nino" (ERFEN), which was established by the            k
intergovernmental Comision Permanente del Pacifico Sur, and was recently ratified by GOP.
The four institutions, which are responsible for a wide range of activities, include: Instituto
Geofisico del Peru (IGP), Instituto del Mar del Perui (IMARPE), Instituto Nacional de Defensa
Civil (INDECI), and Servicio Nacional de Metereologia e Hidrologia (SENAMII). Bank
financing will be used to procure data collection and processing equipment, specialized foreign
technical assistance, and training. The following is a summary of the proposals presented by these
entities:
3.    Instituto Geofisico del Perui This sub-component would help the Instituto Geofisico del
Peru (IGP) strengthen Peru's capacity to forecast climate changes, including El Nirio. In order to
do this, IGP aims to use free-of-charge models recently developed by the scientific community
worldwide (including the USA's National Center for Atmospheric Research) as inputs to regional
models of climate change and to high-resolution models of sea surface temperature prediction off
the Peruvian coast. Other inputs required in this regard include real-time parameters of Peru's
atmosphere and coastal ocean which would be collected by automatic instrument platforms as
well as manual measuring operations. These will also provide the basis for short and long-term
weather forecasting.
4.    IGP would be responsible for the execution of this sub-component and may choose to
enter into specific "sub-contracting" agreements with two institutions with which it already has
entered into broad collaboration agreements, namely, the Universidad de Piura (UdeP) and the
Direcci6n de Hidrografiay Navegaci6n (DHN). Similarly, it may also choose to enter into an
agreement with the Instituto del Mar del Perui (IMARPE). Among other things, the above-
mentioned sub-contracting agreements would have to specify the responsibilities of the
subcontractors but clearly indicate that the IGP retains full responsibility for sub-component
implementation.
5.    Among other things, IGP would ask: (a) DHN, and probably IMARPE, to maintain and
operate maritime and coastal instruments; and (b) UdeP to build and, with DHN's assistance,
operate a wind profiler, a sea-state radar in Lobos de Afuera island, and a boundary layer radar.
6.    Regional forecasts would be made available to the Instituto de Defensa Civil (INDECI),
the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Fisheries and the general public via Internet. Real-
time observations of the atmosphere will be shared with SENAMHI. Ocean state parameters and
prediction will be made available to IMARPE.



- 51 -
7.    Financing requested includes (with notional estimates)
Equipment
2 super workstations                  US$ 110,000'
2 personal computers                  US$  6,000
45 data collection platforms14        US$ 810,000
1 Boundary Layer Radar to measure
winds in lower atmosphere      US$ 100,000
2 Ocean-moored buoys to measure ocean
and surface meteorological data    US$ 300,000
150 balloons                         US$ 15,000
5 "logging" stations                  US$ 25,000
1 Sea-state radar and wind profiler  US$ 80,000
HW to link earth station to internet  US$ 40,000
GIS software                          US$ 10,000
Specialized Technical Expertise             US$ 75,000
Training (1 Ph.D. and 2 M.Sc.)              US$ 280,000
8.   Instituto del Mar delPerui  The Instifuto del Mar del Perti (ARPE) is responsible for
continuously carrying out research and monitoring the impact that of several factors (such as
fishing intensity and climate changes) on the biomass off Peru's coast. This is very important in a
country where fishing represents a significant sector of the economy. This sub-component would
help IMARPE strengthen its operations. Financing requested, with notional estimates includes:
(a)   Equipment for 3 coastal laboratories, with a total estimated cost of about
US$500,000. Each coastal laboratory requires various types of equipment,
including microscopes (electronic, composite with microphotography, triocular),
analytical scales (digital, electronic, mechanical), microtomes, cooling and heating
equipment, pumps, programmable tissue processors, personal computers, magnetic
agitators, water analysis and water pollution measuring equipment, sea diving
equipment, anemometer, echosounds, etc.
(b)   Training, estimated cost is US$ 300,000 for 5 M.Sc. degrees (two years each) in
relevant disciplines: biomass management, fish population dynamics, underwater
electroacoustics, chemical oceanography, and physical oceanography.
(c)   Specialized foreign technical assistance, estimated cost is US$ 72,500:
(i)   Study of population growth of minor pelagic species (30 person-days),
estimated cost US$ 17,500, including fee, subsistence and travel
(ii)   Data processing and forecasting (30 person-days), estimated cost US$
17,500, including fee, subsistence and travel
4 This could be reduced in number of platforms and degree of soplustication.



- 52-
(iii) Analysis of pelagic species' fishing volume per unit of effort (30 person-
days), estimated cost US$ 18,500, including fee, subsistence and travel.
(iv)  Integrated coastal zones (30 person-days), estimated cost US$ 19,000,
including fee, subsistence and travel.
9.    Instituto Nacional de Defensa Civil. 5 The Instituto Nacional de Defensa Civil
(INDECI) is responsible for designing and implementing disaster prevention and relief activities in
Peru. It encourages the public and the private sector to carry out analyses of risks and
vulnerability, and aims to improve the availability of human and logistical resources nationwide.
Financing requested, with notional estimates includes,
(a)   Equipment needed to receive data from weather satellites (US$ 42,800), including
a computerized Wefax Explorer antenna system.
(b)   Water level controls and alarm systems to be used in rivers (US$ 10,000).
(c)   Enhancements to existing Geographic Information System (US$ 93,000), including
personal computers, software, digital plotter, remote sensing devices, and laser
printers.
(d)   Integrated countrywide communication system (LJS$ 787,400), including switcher,
servers, personal computers, various peripherals, software and training.
10.   Servicio Nacional de Meteorologia          The Servicio Nacional de Meteorologia
e Hidrologia (SENAMHI) has identified, as its main requirements: (a) improving and expanding
its existing meteorological, hydrological and environmental data collection stations; (b) improving
its communication systems; and (c) improving its climatologic data base. Financing requested with
notional estimates includes: The Direcci6n General de Hidrologiay Recursos Hidricos has
requested financing for about US$ 20,000 worth of equipment and materials. The Direccion
General de Metereologia has requested financing for about US$ 1,200,000 worth of equipment,
including, among other things: a meteorological radar (US$ 735,500), a workstation (US$
120,000), a high-resolution image data drive (US$ 60,000) and digital image processing software
(US$ 60,000). The Oficina General de Operaciones Ticnicas has requested US$ 2-3 million of
financing, including inter alia, 2 doppler radars (US$ 2.5 million), current meters (US$ 245,000),
geothermometers (US$ 70,000) and anemometers (US$ 100,000) The Oficina General de
Estadistica e Informdtica has requested financing for about US$ 140,000 worth of equipment,
including a fully equipped microcomputer (US$ 200,000) and a portable terminal (US$ 65,000).
is INDECI has also requested Bank financing of items to be used during the emergency (blankets, clothes, shelters,
hand tools, portable power generators, portable water tanks, fuel, kitchen and eating utensils, rescue
equipment, food, medicines, etc.). These may be provided by the complementary project through IDB.



- 53 -
Finally, the Direcci6n General de Agrometerologia has requested financing for about US$
165,000 including specialized software (US$ 100,000) and a 4x4 truck.



- 54 -
APPENDIX 6
RESETTLEMENT
Objectives
The agreed objectives of the Project's resettlement operations are to remove people from
areas at risk of flooding and landslide, relocate them to environmentally and socially sustainable
settlements, and provide them opportunities to improve their standards of livelihood in the new
resettled locations.
The resettlement policy to be applied in the case of the above mentioned displacement of
population shall be consistent with the principles contained in the World Bank Operational
Directive 4.30 (Involuntary Resettlement) and the document entitled "LATEN Guidelines for
Review of Projects Where Resettlement Needs are Not Known in Detail at the Time of
Appraisal."
Policy Framework
The following would be some of the policies and elements of the resettlement operations:
(a)   Persons entitled to resettlement shall be those, regardless of tenure status, whose
houses and/or lands are in areas at risk of flooding or landslide and who appear on
the census of affected families conducted by COFOPRI and included in the
Resettlement Action Plan approved by the Bank;
(b)   All affected persons will be resettled at no cost to the affected family;
(c)   All affected persons will be provided a replacement house and plot better than or
equivalent to their previous house and lot (it is currently planned that this be a
house lot of about 120 square meters and a modular house of about 11 square
meters);
(d)   The resettlement areas will be provided with communal kitchens and latrines,
potable water standpipes, public lighting and access and internal roads, all in
adequate conditions of operation;
(e)   The affected persons will be promptly provided freehold titles to lots and houses
which will be recorded in the respective property registry at no cost to the affected
person;
(f)   Each affected person will have access to low-interest credit from the Borrower to
improve and/or expand their modular houses;



- 55 -
(g)   All affected persons, and specifically those that are considered most vulnerable in
socioeconomic terms, such as female-headed households and ethnic minorities, will
be provided special assistance to increase their income-generating capacities;
(h)   All areas that are evacuated will be devoted to reforestation or other public uses in
order to prevent any further human settlement including invasion by squatters;
(i)    To the extent that affected persons to be resettled are squatters on public lands at
risk of flooding or landslide, compensation will be provided for loss of assets in the
form of replacement lot, modular house and basic infrastructure. In other cases,
lost assets will be valued at their replacement cost as to permit continuation of the
social and economic function they had before they were adversely affected.
Institutional Responsibilities
(1)   INDECI and the local governments will be responsible for the mobilization and physical
transfer of the affected people to resettlement sites. All logistical arrangements needed for timely
and orderly moving of such affected people and their belongings both before and during the
emergency rests with these local institutions.
(2)   Regional Governments will be responsible for the development of resettlement sites
including land leveling, survey and division into house plots, and installation of modular houses,
communal infrastructure and public services. For such purposes, such Regional Governments will
establish, and thereafter maintain, regional coordinating committees composed of representatives
of major line agencies of government, INDECI, non-governmental organizations and the private
sector to oversee and coordinate resettlement and reconstruction works.
(3)   COFOPRI (the Borrower's National Commission for Formalization of Informal
Properties) will be responsible for conducting and updating a census of the areas to be evacuated,
for assisting affected families to select plots acceptable to them, for issuing freehold title to house
plots and modular houses in resettlement areas, and for recording titles in the property registry.
To accomplish these tasks, COFOPRI will establish, and thereafter maintain, offices in each
department (departamento) staff with key professionals, including a civil engineer, a lawyer and
an administrative officer. In addition, COFOPRI will establish, and thereafter maintain, in each
department office a social work unit to provide social communications for all affected persons and
special assistance for vulnerable households to increase their income-earning capacities.
(4)   The 01 will be responsible for technical assistance and guidance to all entities and agencies
involved in the resettlement program, timely and efficient allocation of financial resources to
responsible agencies, ensuring timely delivery of social assessments, environmental audits and
environmental assessments necessary for detailed planning of the resettlement operations in
preparation for the Bank's no objection a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) containing site-specific
detailed plans and thereafter implementation of the RAP, monitoring performance of responsible
government agencies at all levels, and periodic reporting of results to the Borrower and the Bank.
For these purposes, the 01 will establish a Resettlement and Reconstruction Team composed of
an anthropologist/sociologist, social worker, civil engineer and an administrator all with prior
experience with resettlement operations.



- 56 -
Financing Arrangements
The total cost of the definitive resettlement operations in northern Peru is estimated
approximately to be US$ 28,805,000.
The Bank is requested to finance, through the loan: (a) institutional strengthening of the
01 as regarding environmental and resettlement operations as well as COFOPRI's departmental
offices, including contracting of technical teams and purchase of equipment and vehicles; (b)
studies to be performed by consultants in connection with environmental and resettlement
operations; and (c) basic infrastructure for the definitive resettlement areas. The estimated cost of
these elements of the project is US$ 18,780,000 (US$1,780,000 for institutional strengthening,
and studies and US$17,000,000 for infrastructure).
The Borrower will finance, out of its own resources the provision of replacement land and
houses, mobilization and transfer of population, public services such as education and health, and
all recurrent administrative, personnel, equipment and vehicle costs of government agencies and
institutions contributing to design and implementation of components of the resettlement
operation. The estimated cost of these elements of the project is US$10,025,00 (US$ 5,493,000
for land and housing, US$ 2,380 for public services, US$ 95,000 for transfer, and US$ 2,056,000
for administrative costs).



PERU
EL NINO PHENOMENON
OBSERVED SEA SURFACE TEMPERATURE ANOMALY(°C)
-2    -1.5    -1    -.5    .5        1     1.5     2      3       4      5
7 - day Average Centered on 1 0 September 1 997
0       1,000      2,000       3,000       4,000      5,000 KILOMETERS (EQUATORIAL SCALE)
I            -------                                                                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominotions and anyother information shown
Source: NCEP/Climate  Modeling  Branch                                                                                                                  on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
acceptance of such boundaries.
10 ~           ------0---W---.-                                                                                                                          V 
-    ,0            (}:0\  ' "                      f ,-               '     lWTI                                                                '-,
0
0-
p a, c, "f    c
---------4---
-  ----------------                                                                                          10.~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ' 
z
0                                                                                          .0--- -77 '
-20,       AUSTRALIA                                                                                                 -----------
'0               ~~~~~~~~~~~140E             10EIA8O- 40                                                                                  -20W-0-                                       00W ;;N}~ 
-41  1                                                                                                                                ------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



0  .    'igo           '78                       76r                       7A'                      72'
7K 7K<0 KEKCU7AA                   0 
iEN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N-
i80  wc}E882 8B8.'Dffl,8, -X<1                                                                        2                          S
K <0 p-"'                                             fr~~~~~~~~~~~L F,R,,T 
i,,E C U ADO                                                                                       O R   Ao L LoEMHB I  A  DS
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2'</                                                               1
i . . i                                                                                                                                              /
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALODS   
8 8E,, 1d ,/ e _g*%_ '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIER                                                                                         8
,KAKKKK<EKKFKKK6"7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
HUkNULCRETO
3Br8~~~~~~~~~~~PSC3                                                                                                      Bf R A  Z/ I L 
0~~~~~~~~<
mA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
,,$I   A"i3gR3g35  '                       '-               B                                        .I                                                        6'
ao6ooK 6FF -3 -0                          j              opo                                                                                       /             -
SANR33R3E3  3                                                          D P AVEDRE
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~A -TK    C                                                                                            OTERN ALL-WEATHER ROD
iiR 0K   ae,83E3B2g33B383g3S3r3g38-gRE  a  i  3N8  g  ° EERRO  DE P  t XJ | B R A Z I L
i 3KEOKKK=6;'K"RK3ii"KKEEA 3                     Ii,o                  sii3R33E 3                       R      3      ,     '-  3RAILROs ADSCO    ompa
m! 0X0i gig~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                      PocoBilpo6g
t0c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K0
r.~~..  4$4E   ;~tJ'-~~4~tM 'c    -I-E<0
3RR    ,,3,3i,0,3K8R8333O                            33R3G3'K3              --33333383833gE338 -ij333e 'N         Roe2;&2e8        o,r  OiTO, o
m 58DilRIgD3233B3D8n83 F4                                                                RA 
m ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ A                    4              VFF    4EM5R4E 88 _4



