Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4250-PE
Loan Agreement
(“El Niño” Emergency Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 17, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4250-PE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period 
of thirty days, or 
Page  2
(b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan,  that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines 
that 
the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or 
(f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by 
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall 
be cancelled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Eligible  Areas” means those departments, departamentos, provinces, 
provincias, or districts, distritos, included or to be included under state of 
emergency pursuant to the Borrower’s Supreme Decree, Decreto Supremo, 031-97-PCM, 
dated June 19, 1997, and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette dated June 20, 
1997, as such decree may be amended from time to time;
(b)
“El Niño Phenomena” means the appearance, from time to time, of 
anomalously warm sea surface temperatures in the Central and Eastern Pacific Ocean 
near to the equator, which gives rise to unusual changes in normal climate patterns 
around the globe, including the Western coastal region of South America, and “El Niño 
Phenomenon” means the El Niño Phenomena of 1997-1998;
(c)
“Flood Reconstruction Subproject” means an investment project to 
reconstruct economic and/or social infrastructure facilities in an Eligible Area 
damaged by the floods that have occurred in the 1997-1998 summer season in Peru and as 
a result of the El Niño Phenomenon and:
(i)
which consists of investments in the areas of irrigation 
and agricultural drainage, river works, urban and rural 
storm 
drainage, cultural property and environmentally 
sensitive areas, 
urban reconstruction, rehabilitation of 
energy facilities, rural 
infrastructure, rehabilitation of 
educational and health facilities 
and other areas which may 
be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
(ii)
which shall be carried out by an Implementing Agency (under 
the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 
(c) if required); 
(iii)
which meets the following criteria (as described in detail 
in the Operating Rules): (A) the damaged infrastructure 
facility existed prior to the anticipated floods; (B) the 
damage to the 
concerned infrastructure facility is a 
consequence of the floods 
in the 1997-1998 summer season 
resulting from El Niño Phenomenon; (C) 
the proposed 
subproject is technically and economically sound in 
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank; (D) an 
environmental assessment of the subproject has been carried 
out and, if the case, a plan of mitigation measures been 
prepared; (E) 
if the proposed subproject would have an 
impact on indigenous 
peoples, a development plan 
satisfactory to the Bank has been 
prepared for 
implementation; and (F) any other criteria set forth 
in the 
Operating Rules;
Page  3
(iv)
which has been approved by the Investment Office in 
accordance with the Operating Rules; and
(v)
which has been included in the list of Flood Reconstruction 
Subprojects referred to in paragraph 8 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement;
(d)
“Implementing Agencies” means:
(i)
in respect of the prevention investments under Parts A.1 
and A.2 of the Project, those agencies and entities listed 
in the 
Implementation Letter;
(ii)
in respect of Parts A.3, B.1, and B.4 of the Project, the 
respective sectoral ministries, FONCODES (the Borrower’s 
Fondo 
Nacional de Desarrollo y Compensación Social), the 
executive 
directorates (direcciones ejecutivas) of INADE 
(the Borrower’s 
Instituto Nacional de Desarrollo), INFES 
(the Borrower’s Instituto 
Nacional de Infraestructura 
Educativa y de Salud) and any other 
national, regional or 
local authority which meets the eligibility 
criteria set 
forth in the Operating Rules;
(iii)
in respect of Part B.2 of the Project, PRONAMACHCS (the 
Borrower’s Proyecto Nacional de Manejo de Cuencas 
Hidrográficas y Conservación de Suelos), FONCODES or other 
entity 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank;
(iv)
in respect of Part B.3 of the Project, COFOPRI (the 
Borrower’s Comisión Nacional de la Formalización de 
Propiedad Informal) and the respective regional and local 
governments;
(v)
in respect of Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower’s 
geophysical institute, Instituto Geofísico del Perú, the 
Borrower’s maritime institute (Instituto del Mar del Perú) 
and the 
Borrower’s national weather service (Servicio 
Nacional de Meteorología e 
Hidrología);
(vi)
in respect of Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower’s civil 
defense institute, Instituto de Defensa Civil, and
(vii)
in respect of Parts C.3 and C.4 of the Project, the 
Borrower, through the Investment Office (as hereinafter 
defined); and “Implementing Agency” means any of the above 
entities or 
agencies;
(e)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter from the Borrower to the Bank of 
even date herewith containing: (i) the principles and guidelines for the resettlement 
program under Part B.3 of the Project; (ii) the Implementing Agencies under Parts A.1 
and A.2 of the Project; and (iii) the specific prevention investments under Parts A.1 
and A.2 of the Project;
(f)
“Investment Office” means the unit within the MEF (as hereinafter 
defined) entitled Oficina de Inversiones;
(g) 
“MEF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance, Ministerio de 
Economía y Finanzas;
(h)
“Operating Rules” means the set of rules and procedures, satisfactory to 
the Bank, to be approved by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 3 (c) (i) of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, for the management and implementation of the Project including, 
inter alia,  the eligibility criteria of Flood Reconstruction Subprojects, personnel 
and terms of reference of the Project coordinating team within the Investment Office, 
contractual and administrative arrangements for the coordination and execution of the 
Project, appropriate mechanisms for community participation in the Project, flow of 
funds and monitoring and evaluation procedures in respect of the Project; 
Page  4
(i)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter dated November 4, 1997, 
from the Bank to the Borrower;
(j)
“Rural Works Program Regulations” means the specific regulations, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of Part B.2 of the Project, such 
regulations to be issued by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) (ii) of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement; and
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
 The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred and fifty million dollars ($150,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after 
the 
initial period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period 
(or, in the 
case of the initial Interest Period, for value 
the Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding 
the first day of such Interest 
Page  5
Period), as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per 
annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans 
or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable on February 15 and 
August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out 
the Project, through the Investment Office with the participation of the Implementing 
Agencies, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the Operating Rules 
and appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure, through contractual arrangements satisfactory 
to the Bank, that each Implementing Agency with separate legal personality adheres to 
the Operating Rules and takes all necessary action to enable the Borrower to fully 
comply with the provisions set forth in this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the above contractual 
arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce such 
contractual arrangements, the Operating Rules or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of  the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. In the event that the anticipated floods or drought do not occur 
in the 1997-1998 summer season, the Bank, without limitation or restriction to the 
provisions of Section 6.03 of the General Conditions, may terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to the Loan amount not required to finance 
the Project activities envisaged to remedy the damages caused by such anticipated 
floods or drought.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Page  7
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
that the Borrower, through the Investment Office, shall have employed, at 
least, a Project coordinator, an environmental specialist, a procurement specialist 
and a social sector specialist, all with qualifications and experience and under terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
that the Borrower and the Bank shall have agreed on the terms of 
reference for the consulting firm to be retained by the Investment Office pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (c) (ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date March 17, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jirón Junín 319
Lima 1
Perú
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Lima, Peru, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By /s/ Jorge Camet
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  8
By /s/ Fred D. Levy
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
     % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
70%
(a)
Goods under
5,000,000
Part A.3  of the
Project
(b)
Other Goods
5,000,000
(2)
Consultants'
5,000,000
100%
services (including 
auditing services under
Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement) and Training
(3)
Civil Works
70%
(a)
Civil Works under  30,000,000
Parts A.1 and
A.2 of the Project
(b)
Other Civil Works  95,000,000
(4)
Refunding of 
  500,000
Amounts due 
Project Prepara-
pursuant to 
tion Advance
Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
9,500,000
__________
TOTAL
     150,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “Training” means expenditures (other 
than for consultants’ services) incurred for: (i) training materials; (ii) rental of 
training facilities; (iii) transportation expenses of trainees; (iv) subsistence 
expenses for trainees; (v) scholarships and fellowships for training courses locally 
or abroad; and (vi) study tours and internships locally or abroad.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$30,000,000, may be made in respect of any Category set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
Page  9
date but after June 19, 1997;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under category (3) (b) in respect of Part 
B.2 of the Project unless: (i) the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to the 
Bank, that a state of emergency for drought reasons has been declared by the competent 
authority in the respective department, province or district and such declaration has 
been made on the basis of a technical report, satisfactory to the Bank, showing that a 
drought has occurred in such department, province or district; and (ii) the Employment 
Generation Program Regulations have been approved by the Borrower and put into effect;
(c)
payments made for expenditures under categories (1) (b), (2) and (3) (b) 
in respect of Parts B and C of the Project unless: (i) the Operating Rules have been 
approved by the Borrower and put into effect; (ii) the Borrower has retained a 
consulting firm, with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, to 
assist, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, the Investment Office in 
the management and coordination of the Project; and (iii) the Borrower has made 
operational a financial management system, satisfactory to the Bank, for the Project;
(d)
payments made for expenditures under categories (1) (b), (2) and (3) (b) 
in respect of Part B.3 (b) of the Project unless the respective resettlement program 
has been approved by the Bank and all competent national, regional and local 
authorities;
(e)
payments made for expenditures under category (3) (a) in respect of Part 
A.2 of the Project unless the civil works carried out under force account procedures 
have been certified and valued by a qualified firm, acceptable to the Bank, and under 
criteria and methodology satisfactory to the Bank; and
(f)
payments made for expenditures under category (3) (a) in respect of Part 
A.1 of the Project unless the civil works carried out have been certified and valued 
by a qualified firm, acceptable to the Bank, on the basis of the flat rates per 
completed unit acceptable to the Bank.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $350,000 equivalent; (b) services under consulting contracts with 
individuals costing $50,000 equivalent or less; (c) services under consulting 
contracts with firms costing $100,000 equivalent or less; (d) training; and (e) civil 
works under contracts costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent except for the first 
three contracts; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower, on an emergency basis, 
to: (a) reduce the loss of human life and a deterioration in living standards, prevent 
damages to the economic and social infrastructure, and rehabilitate damaged economic 
and social infrastructure as a result all from the floods and drought anticipated to 
occur in the 1997-1998 summer season and caused by the El Niño Phenomenon; and (b) 
strengthen its capabilities to forecast and respond to future El Niño Phenomena.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Prevention Program and Emergency Support 
1.
Carrying out of investments in water management, forage production and seed 
production as described in the Implementation Letter.
2.
Carrying out of investments in river dredging, strengthening of river defenses, 
cleaning and construction of storm drainage facilities in urban and rural areas, 
strengthening of bridges, protection of archeological sites and protection of schools 
and health facilities as described in the Implementation Letter.
Page  10
3.
Acquisition and utilization of bailey bridges, mobile power plants and pumps 
(including spare parts for existing plants and pumps), metallic protection structures 
and other capital goods, which may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, 
urgently required during the flood disaster.
Part B:
Reconstruction Program 
1.
Carrying out of Flood Reconstruction Subprojects.
2.
A program of small rural infrastructure works such as the repair of terraces to 
prevent erosion and improve the infiltration of rainfall and the construction of 
infiltration canals and new terraces to capture rainfall in the Eligible Areas 
adversely affected by the drought.
3.
Carrying out of: (a) planning studies for the design of a resettlement program, 
including social and environmental assessments, in connection with the population in 
flood prone areas; (b) a program of permanent resettlement of population in flood 
prone areas including the construction of serviced lots, the issuance of property 
deeds, the installation and operation of basic infrastructure, community participation 
in the operation and maintenance of public works and services, capacity building to 
assist the affected people to restore their economic productivity, social development 
programs particularly for the most vulnerable groups and environmental management 
plans for the resettled areas; and (c) a program to ensure that settlements do not 
reemerge in the areas previously inhabited by the resettled population.
4.
Other activities, which may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, to 
restore economic and social infrastructure adversely affected by the drought or 
floods.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Strengthening of the capabilities of the Instituto Geofísico del Perú, Instituto 
del Mar del Perú and the Servicio Nacional de Meteorología e Hidrología in the 
forecasting of, and monitoring the impact and consequences of, the El Niño Phenomena.
2.
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Borrower’s civil defense 
institute (Instituto de Defensa Civil) in disaster preparedness.
3.
Carrying out of a study to develop a comprehensive strategy for disaster 
prevention and relief.
4.
Provision of technical assistance to the Investment Office  for Project 
implementation.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by  June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 2003
through February 15, 2015
6,250,000
Page  11
_____________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid,  except 
as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable: (i) contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each; and (ii) contracts for 
works shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or more 
each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically-manufactured Goods
 The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International and National Shopping
Page  12
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Goods under Part A.3 of the Project and estimated to cost less than 
$1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 
equivalent, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Small repair works under Part B.1 of the Project estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,000,000 equivalent may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.7 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Small rural infrastructure works under Part B.2 of the Project estimated 
to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $10,000,000, may be procured through direct contracting with the local 
communities and in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Rural Works Program 
Regulations.
4.
Force Account
(a)
Works under Part A.2 of the Project, to be financed retroactively under 
the Loan, and costing $30,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be carried 
out by force account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines. Such works shall be financed under the Loan on the basis of certifications 
issued by an independent firm, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Bank, such certifications to be based on criteria and methodology satisfactory to the 
Bank.
(b)
Works under Part A.1 of the Project, including the rehabilitation of deep 
and shallow wells and land plowing, to be financed retroactively under the Loan, may 
be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of 
the Guidelines. Such works shall be financed under the Loan on the basis of flat rates 
per completed unit, satisfactory to the Bank, and as certified by an independent firm, 
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract procured under international 
competitive bidding procedures; and (ii) the first three contracts procured under 
national competitive bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods procured under the procedures 
referred to in Part C.3 (a) above:
(i)
prior to the execution of such contract the Borrower shall 
provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the 
draft 
contract; and
Page  13
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 
of Appendix to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services under Parts B and C of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection
Services under Part C.3 of the Project which are estimated to cost less than 
$500,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
Page  14
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
Without limitation or restriction to Sections 9.01 (a), 9.06 and 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators satisfactory 
to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on a quarterly basis in each year of Project execution, starting not 
later than June 30, 1998 progress reports on the Project including, inter alia: (i) 
progress achieved against the above performance indicators; (ii) an assessment of the 
problems and issues derived from the implementation of the Project; (iii) updated 
implementation and disbursements schedules; and (iv) status of compliance with the 
covenants contained in the Loan Agreement; 
(c)
conduct during the months of June and December of each year of Project 
execution, starting in 1998, reviews with the Bank on the progress achieved in the 
Project based on the above reports; and
(d)
if, as a result of any of the above annual reviews, or any other reviews 
pursuant to Section 9.01 (a) of the General Conditions, the Bank shall have reasonably 
determined that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the achievement of 
its objectives is not satisfactory, promptly take or cause to be taken, without 
limitation or restriction to any of the Bank's rights under this Agreement, all such 
action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary or appropriate for the 
efficient execution of the Project or for the attainment of its objectives.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain, within the Investment Office, a team of experts and 
support assistants to coordinate the Project, such team to include a Project 
coordinator, a procurement specialist, an environmental specialist, a social sector 
specialist, all with qualifications and experience and under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the Operating Rules.
3.
For purposes of ensuring environmental sustainability of the Project, the 
Borrower shall: (i) employ a team of experts, with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank, to undertake the studies under Part B.3 (a) of the Project; 
(ii) not later than March 31, 1998, exchange views with the Bank on the results of the 
above studies; (iii) not later than April 30, 1998, prepare and submit to the Bank the 
resettlement program, satisfactory to the Bank, to be implemented under the Project 
(such resettlement program to be prepared in accordance with the principles and 
guidelines set forth in the Implementation Letter); and (iv) promptly thereafter carry 
out or cause to be carried out the resettlement program referred to above in 
accordance with their respective terms.
4.
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out, with the assistance of the consulting firm 
referred to in paragraph (3) (c) (ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, an 
environmental assessment of the investments under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project; 
such assessment to cover, inter alia, an analysis of the environmental impact of the 
investments, an assessment of the designs of mitigation or management programs dealing 
with such impacts and evaluation of the compliance with applicable environmental 
criteria and standards in such mitigation and management programs; (b) not later than 
June 30, 1998, exchange views with the Bank on the results of the above assessment; 
(c) not later than September 30, 1998, prepare, on the basis of the above 
environmental assessment, and submit to the Bank environmental management plans, 
satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of the investments under Part A.1 and A.2 of the 
Project; and (d) carry out and cause to be carried out such environmental management 
plans in accordance with their respe
ctive terms. 
5
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) only pesticides approved by the Bank, from 
Page  15
among the list of pesticides which meet the present standards established by the Food 
and Agriculture Organization and the World Health Organization, shall be used on the 
Borrower's territory; (b) persons handling pesticides shall be provided with 
protective clothing and equipment, including health kits, and shall be adequately 
qualified and trained to handle pesticides; (c) adequate advance notice shall be given 
to the local population in the areas to be sprayed with pesticides; (d) the labeling, 
packaging and storage of pesticide containers, and the disposal of pesticides and 
pesticide containers, shall be carried out in accordance with the internationally 
accepted general standards provided for under the International Code of Conduct on the 
Distribution and Use of Pesticides published by the Food and Agriculture Organization; 
and (e) suitable pesticide effluent disposal mechanisms shall be made available to 
prevent environmental pollution and pesticide leakage into groundwater, including 
leakage resulting from the rinsing of pesticide containers.
6.
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out Part B.1 of the Project in accordance with 
time-bound programs, satisfactory to the Bank, for each area of investments; and (b) 
carry out Part B.2 of the Project in accordance with the Rural Works Program 
Regulations. 
7.
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the execution of the Project, the 
consulting firm, or other substitute arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, referred 
to in paragraph 3 (c) (ii) of Schedule 1 of this Agreement.
8.
The Borrower shall submit to the Bank the final list of proposed Flood 
Reconstruction Subprojects not later than one year after the Effective Date.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), or (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $30,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
Page  16
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  17
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
