Document of                   g            ,
The World Bank                          L    CO   Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2493-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPNENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
March 16, 1979
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be dislosed witbont World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (PRO)
US$1           -  Rs 9.90
PRs 1          =  US$0.101
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:   The Provinces of Baluchistan, North West Frontier, Punjab
and Sind
Amount:           $10.0 million
Terms:            Standard
Relending Terms: About $7.5 million of the credit would be relent to the
beneficiaries on the same terms as the IDA credit. The
Government of Pakistan would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would constitute the first, experimental
phase of a long-term program to overcome the major problems
of primary education: inequitable access, high dropout rates,
low achievement, and high costs. The proposed project would:
(a) strengthen the teacher service through an extensive train-
ing program; (b) improve supervision; (c) provide instructional
materials as well as technical assistance to develop new mate-
rials and curricula; and (d) finance the construction of class-
rooms and teachers' residences. Project assistance would
particularly be directed at provision of facilities and serv-
ices that reach females and rural poverty groups. The selec-
tive provision of project elements would establish a basis for
evaluation of their relative contribution to improved access,
lower dropout rates, a better quality of instruction, pupil
achievement, and reduced cost in the delivery of primary
education.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                Local       Foreign       Total
---------- $ million --------
Physical structures           4.3         1.1          5.4
Material and equipment        0.5         1.5           2.0
Local salaries                2.6          -            2.6
Training                      1.1         0.4           1.5
Experiments                   0.1         0.1           0.2
Consultants                   0.2         1.1           1.3
Baseline costs                8.9         4.2         13.0
Contingencies: physical       0.4         0.2          0.6
price        2.6         1.0          3.6
Total Project Costs 1/
(including duties and
taxes of US$0.6 million) 11.8           5.4         17.2
Financing Plan:                                           Total
US$ million
IDA                                     10.0
Government                               7.2
Total                                   17.2
Estimated Disbursements:   IDA FY  1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
-------------- $ million --------------
Annual              0.2    0.8    2.3    2.1    2.0    2.6
Cumulative          0.2    1.0    3.3    5.4    7.4   10.0
Rate of Return:      Not applicable
Appraisal Report:   No. 2305-PAK, dated March 15, 1979
Map:     IBRD 14055
1/   Totals may not agree due to rounding.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent of
US$10 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a primary education pro-
ject. About US$7.5 million of the proceeds of the credit would be made avail-
able to the Provinces of Baluchistan, North West Frontier, Punjab and Sind
on the same terms as the IDA credit.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Development Issues and
Policies" (No. 1924-PAK, dated April 7, 1978) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 11, 1978.
3.        Economic performance during the 1970s compares unfavorably with the
record of rapid growth of output and exports during the 1960s. GDP has grown
at about 3.5% per annum in real terms, compared to more than 6% during the
1960s, and rapid population growth has meant that there has been little
increase in per capita incomes. Output in the major productive sectors
(agriculture and manufacturing) has risen even more slowly than GDP - at
about 2.3% per annum - and GDP itself only achieved a growth rate of 3.5% as
a result of expansion in construction, government and service industries.
4.        To a considerable degree this disappointing performance has been due
to factors outside the Government's immediate or direct control. The 1970s
began in crisis with the war with India and the separation of Bangladesh, and
there followed a series of economic and climatic misfortunes which undermined
the basis for growth. These included a poor monsoon in 1974/75 and serious
floods in 1972/73 and 1975/76, as well as the petroleum crisis and the subse-
quent world recession. Moreover, political instability and uncertainty have
had serious economic implications. It is also, however, true that the policy
response to these problems has in many respects been inadequate and has con-
tributed to the economy's disappointing performance. Changing attitudes to
the private sector, illustrated by a series of nationalizations that began in
1972, had a depressing effect on private investment, while legislation served
to increase real wages in the industrial sector at a time of other cost in-
creases and increasingly difficult export markets. Major increases in public
investment have more than offset declining private investment, but new invest-
ment has been concentrated in capital-intensive, long-gestation projects which
in many cases have yet to result in increased production. This investment
contributed to a massive deterioration in the trade account. To finance
imports, and to cover serious shortfalls in public saving, the Government
resorted to heavy borrowing from abroad, including a major increase from OPEC
countries. Workers' remittances have increased very substantially over the
last few years, but poor export performance and rising debt repayments still



- 2 -
impose a serious strain on the balance of payments while the problem of
domestic resource mobilization continues to constrain economic development.
5.        A start has been made in the process of policy adjustment and mea-
sures have been implemented which go some way towards solving the country's
serious resource management problems. The present Government has shown that
it attaches importance to the private sector. The agricultural processing
industries (except the vegetable ghee industry) have been denationalized,
the area open to private investment has been greatly extended, credit and
tax incentives (especially for export) have been improved and considerable
improvements have been recorded in the labor situation. Agricultural sup-
port prices have been maintained, and in some cases increased, and an effort
is being made to improve input availability to the farmer. Finally, a review
of Government investment and related priorities was undertaken in the context
of the preparation of the revised Fifth Plan, which recognizes the limitations
of overall resources and the need to redirect the pattern of economic develop-
ment away from large public industrial and other long gestation projects and
towards the agricultural and social sectors.
6.        To date the impact of these measures has been limited.  While GDP
at factor cost grew by around 5.3% during FY78, compared to less than 1% in
FY77, this represents in large measure a recovery in agriculture, especially
in the cotton crop which fell disastrously in the previous year. In contrast,
there has been little indication of a significant recovery in private invest-
ment, the budget deficit is likely to remain large in FY79 and inflationary
pressures and the external balance continue to give cause for concern. In
addition, the 1977/78 wheat crop was a major disappointment, with production
well below, and thus import requirements considerably above, the Government's
target.
7.        While the overall economic situation provides little room for ma-
neuver, and the policy changes that have already taken place are in the right
direction, it remains the case that further measures which face basic issues
limiting economic growth in the longer term are needed. These issues include
the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture; the struc-
ture and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the factors lying behind
continued rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service
expenditures; the deterioration in the performance of public sector enterprises
and the administrative machinery generally; the low elasticity of tax revenues
and the problems of public resource mobilization; and the large trade deficit
and the continued dependence on capital inflows from abroad.
8.        Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 55% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Much of agricul-
ture's disappointing performance in recent years is attributable to the decline
in cotton output since other crops (with the notable exception of wheat last
year) have generally fared better. Nevertheless, even for these (wheat, rice,
sugar) there was a major setback in the early 1970s to the 'green revolution'
initiated during the 1960s. While a deceleration in the introduction of new
technologies after several years of rapid growth is not surprising, yields
still remain well below those achieved under comparable conditions elsewhere,



- 3 -
even for the new varieties. Since cropped areas have also failed to respond
to the opportunities created by increases in water availability (e.g., from
Tarbela) production has been well below the potential implied by the resources
and technologies available. Considerable potential still exists for the
additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, but it appears also essential
to give greater priority to evolving complementary policies and programs which
have a direct impact at the farm level. Major improvements are possible in
the water delivery system and in the general level of agricultural practices.
High priority therefore needs to be given to water course improvement programs,
to investments designed to reverse water-logging and salinity and to projects
designed to establish a systematic and effective research and extension
service. Without such initiatives, agricultural growth in the longer term
will suffer and the benefits from the available inputs and resources will
remain well below their technical potential.
9.        Industry contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the 1950s
and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in manufacturing
production have, however, declined from about 10% per year during the 1960s
to little over 2% in recent years. The major structural change in the in-
dustrial sector since 1973 has been the expansion of the public sector from
about 10% to about 25% of industrial assets. Private investment has declined
markedly as a result of nationalization fears, rapid cost inflation, labor
problems, adverse export market conditions and problems in raw material
supply. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts for about 40%
of value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from problems of in-
efficiency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in foreign markets,
while manufacturing growth generally has been affected by the poor performance
of public sector enterprises. A revival in the industrial investment climate
depends on a period of reasonably prolonged stability and a shift in the
overall balance of production towards higher value added products which are
responsive to market opportunities and preferences. Also important will be
progress in, and results from, oil exploration for which there appears to be
considerable potential.
10.       While it is clearly vital to re-establish a base for more rapid
growth in the commodity-producing sectors, it is also true that rapid growth
in population, currently running at about 3% per annum, has seriously handi-
capped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning
programs have unfortunately had little effect and there have been few changes
in the socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany declines
in fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on Government
resources simply to maintain education and health programs at their current
inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy rates, improved health
facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population
growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on social services remain
comparatively low and undue emphasis has been given to such elements as higher
education and urban health facilities. High priority needs therefore to be
given not only to increased allocations for family planning and social service
expenditure but also to its redirection to serve the wider interests of the
population and the economy.



-4-
11.       Policies that face the longer term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will
have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external
resource constraints. Domestic resource mobilization has become a major prob-
lem area in the economy. Public sector development expenditures increased
from 5.5% of GDP in FY71 to 11.2% in FY77 while non-development expenditures
more than trebled. Public sector savings declined, and indeed were negative
from FY72 to FY75, although they recovered to about 2% of GDP in FY78. The
scope for non-inflationary domestic borrowing has been limited by declining
private savings, so that financing public expenditures has become heavily
dependent on external and domestic bank borrowing, with foreign assistance
financing no less than 70% of development expenditures in FY76, and an even
higher proportion of public investment. The share of development expendi-
tures financed through foreign assistance fell to 48% in FY77 because of a
decline in aid receipts. To improve domestic resource mobilization, addi-
tional taxation and improvements in tax administration are needed; non-
development expenditures must be restrained, possibly through selective
reductions in subsidies; and the contribution of public enterprises should
be enhanced, for instance through tariff increases. Given the limits to
domestic and external borrowing, and the constraints on increasing revenues
and decreasing current expenditures, it remains essential to limit the size
and adjust the content of the public investment program. Emphasis needs to
be given to providing adequate resources for agriculture and other areas
where substantial and rapid increases in production and exports appear
possible, as well as to the social sectors, which have been neglected in
recent years. Conversely, the proportion of resources devoted to capital-
intensive industrial and long gestation projects should be reduced.
12.       The external position has been greatly assisted by rapidly rising
workers' remittances from abroad, notably from the Middle East; these have
risen from US$130 million in FY73 to US$578 million in FY77 and to US$1,166
million in FY78. This increase has, however, been more than offset by a
massive deterioration in the trade balance with the result that the current
account deficit increased from about US$130 million in FY73 to more than
US$1,000 million in FY75. It remained at roughly this level in FY76 and FY77,
with rising remittances offsetting further increases in the trade deficit.
The major uncertainty for FY79 and beyond relates to remittances but, assuming
a relatively conservative estimate for these, external financing requirements
are likely to be above US$1,400 million in nominal terms, even allowing for
fairly optimistic trade projections and this will exhaust the recently im-
proved reserves. Provisional estimates for FY78 show a markedly more favor-
able result than expected. A late spurt in exports together with slightly
lower imports and higher remittances combined to reduce the current account
deficit to about US$650 million. External financing requirements were a
little over US$800 million, reflecting the non-payment of US$116 million of
debt service due to Iran and reserves rose by about US$330 million. While
financing in the range of US$1,100-US$1,300 million was obtained during the
mid-1970s, funds from OPEC sources may be more difficult to arrange in the
future and assistance from traditional donors is only likely to be forth-
coming in the required amounts if appropriate development policies are
implemented. Unless workers' remittances rise more rapidly than is now
expected, therefore, the external position is likely to continue tight.



-5-
13.       Total external debt outstanding at the beginning of FY79 amounted
to about US$7.0 billion of which US$3.76 billion was due to Consortium
bilateral donors, US$1.0 billion to OPEC, US$1.08 billion to multilateral
agencies and the balance to other bilateral and private lenders. Contractual
debt service to official agencies rose from US$313 million in FY73 to US$394
in FY77 although the burden of these payments was eased to US$200 and US$310
million respectively as a result of debt relief arrangements. The four-year
debt relief agreement with bilateral consortium members expired on June 30,
1978, and if no further agreement is reached, debt service payments will rise
steeply. In FY79, contractual payments are expected to amount to around
US$535 million and considerably more in subsequent years. As a proportion of
exports, non-factor service payments and workers' remittances, debt service
can be expected to rise from about 15% in the FY75-77 period to around 17.5%
in FY79, assuming substantial growth in both exports and workers remittances.
Pakistan obviously needs to exercise care in protecting its ability to borrow
to meet future requirements, and to restrict commercial borrowing to a minimum.
For this reason, Bank Group lending to Pakistan is currently confined to IDA
credits. Pakistan's debt to the Bank and IDA at the end of FY78 was about 15%
of its external public indebtedness. The share of the Bank Group in total
debt service is now about 9%.
14.       Pakistan's resource endowment, especially in the Indus Basin system.
is substantial and during the 1960s the economy demonstrated a considerable
capacity for growth. Rough estimates suggest that the economy could grow at
perhaps 5-6% per annum over the next five years, and that this could be accom-
panied by a wider distribution of the benefits of growth than was achieved
during the 1960s. A start has been made in the process of policy adjustment,
but it is clearly evident that a wide range of further initiatives are neces-
sary to deal with the causes underlying the economy's disappointing performance
in recent years. Only if these new policies and programs are pursued consist-
ently over a number of years will the basis for longer-term improvements in
living standards for the population as a whole be established.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN 1/
15.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$1.7 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all sec-
tors of the economy. Through FY78, 38% of total commitments were for public
services, 30% for agriculture, 31% for industry (of which 9% was for indus-
trial imports) and 2% for education. Lending for public services has amounted
to almost US$700 million and has included loans and credits for railways,
electric power, gas pipelines, Karachi Port, highways, telecommunications and
1/   Part II is substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report
on the Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan (No. 2446-
PAK, dated January 11, 1979).



- 6 -
water supplies. A large part of past lending for agriculture was for Indus
Basin projects. Lending for industry has been mainly through the Pakistan
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). For most projects for
which loans and credits are being disbursed, construction is now going ahead
satisfactorily. The principal problems being encountered are that the rates
charged by some of the public services have not kept pace with inflation and,
hence, some utilities are not earning adequate returns. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of January 31, 1979 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives.  One of
these is to support the directly productive sectors of the economy and, in
particular, to increase production of import substitutes such as foodgrains,
edible oils, fertilizer and engineering goods and to sustain export growth
in cotton yarn and textiles, rice and a large number of other industrial and
agricultural products. The main part of Bank Group assistance for industry
will continue to be through financial intermediaries. The most important
part of future lending for agriculture is expected to be for the Government's
program to increase productivity in the Indus Basin by controlling salinity
and improving the utilization of surface irrigation and groundwater. The
Bank is the Executing Agency for a UNDP technical assistance grant for
improving agriculture and water planning in the Indus Basin.
17.       Another objective is to support the necessary expansion of, and
to improve the institutions which are responsible for, the principal public
services which have benefitted from Bank Group lending in the past, namely,
the Telegraph and Telephone Department, Karachi Port, Water and Power Devel-
opment Authority, Pakistan Railways, Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Company and
the Lahore Water and Sanitation Agency. A number of these agencies are beset
by institutional weaknesses. In some cases, improvements are being made with
technical assistance financed under loans and credits. In other cases, where
the problems are of such a nature that action by government is required, the
Bank Group is encouraging GOP to take remedial measures.
18.       A third objective is to extend lending operations into areas which
will help to bring economic development to the poorest strata of the popula-
tion. This shift implies increased lending for agriculture and rural develop-
ment and will involve significant lending for projects complementary to the
Indus/Tarbela works. In the urban sector, Bank missions have worked with
municipal authorities on the plans for the urban development of Karachi,
whose population now exceeds 4 million, and Lahore, Pakistan's second largest
city. A Karachi master plan was completed in 1974 with the assistance of
consultants financed by UNDP. Within the framework of the plan, a project
was proposed and appraised for urban upgrading in the Lyari section of the
city. This project, however, has been deferred indefinitely due to Government
reconsideration of the project cost and financial arrangements. Planning in
Lahore is at a much earlier stage than in Karachi and the immediate need is
for technical assistance. Accordingly, the IDA credit for the second Lahore
water supply, sewerage and drainage project includes provision for the financ-
ing of urban studies in Lahore. The emphasis being given to agriculture and
other projects with a low foreign exchange component justifies the financing
of some local expenditures in specific cases.



- 7 -
19.       A number of projects for Bank Group financing are currently under
appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. Projects under appraisal include a
third WAPDA power project, a fourth agricultural credit project, a third
highways project and an agricultural extension project in Sind. Preparatory
work is proceeding on a Karachi bulk water supply project, a grain storage
project, a further irrigation and drainage project, and a vocational education
project.
20.       IFC has made investments in nine Pakistan enterprises for a total
of US$30.2 million, of which US$22.8 million was by way of loans and US$7.4
million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex II). About US$11
million remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include three
in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles and one each in
cement, steel and fertilizers. IFC is also a shareholder of PICIC.
PART III - THE PRIMARY EDUCATION SUBSECTOR
Overview
21.       Primary education in Pakistan has been influenced by constraints
that affect the education system generally. Separate schools are operated for
males and females, and there is a significant disparity in enrollment ratios
between the two sexes (73% for males vs. 33% for females at the primary
level). Educational financing is divided between the Federal and Provincial
Governments, which together allocate less than 2% of GNP to education. In
the past, primary education consistently received a smaller share of the
education budget than secondary and post-secondary levels, though it is
intended to reverse this situation in the current Five-Year Plan. Finally,
both the opportunities and the demand for education, particularly basic
education, are limited; this has resulted in Pakistan achieving only a 24%
literacy rate.
22.       About 5 million children are enrolled in primary schools, about
half the relevant age group (ages 5-9). Enrollments are high in grade 1
(1.8 million) but drop substantially by grade 5 (0.7 million). There are over
52,000 primary schools, about 85% of them in rural areas. Schools are small,
with about 100 students and only one or two teachers. There are twice as many
boys' as girls' schools. Administrative responsibility for the schools is
divided: Provincial Governments are responsible for building and maintaining
schools and employing personnel, but they share responsibility for general
policy, curriculum, development of teaching materials, planning and financing
with the Federal Government. Over 130,000 teachers are assigned to primary
schools. They are trained in 64 teacher training institutes that have a
combined output of 12,000 teachers p.a.; however, less than one third of the
institutes cater to females. The primary curriculum has recently been revised
to cover seven subjects in a 26-hour school week. New texts have also been
developed by provincial authorities.



-8-
Issues in Primary Education
23.       Unequal Opportunity.  Although overall enrollments in primary
schools expanded at an average annual rate of 4.8% during 1966-76, raising
enrollment ratios from 43% to 54%, several factors militate against rural
and female children having equal access to primary education. Rural areas
generally suffer from a lack of adequate facilities and staff. Female stud-
ents are further at a disadvantage because girls' schools are not provided
in many areas.  Also, few female teachers will accept posts in rural areas
because of the poor quality of working and living accommodations, the lack
of promotional possibilities, and social constraints. The attitude of many
rural parents also limits demand for basic education: some parents see little
chance of advancement for their children through education. Girls have tradi-
tionally been taught at home; the attitude of parents is reflected in the 47%
of females who never enroll. Overall, female enrollments represent less than
half of male enrollments and progression rates are lower for girls than for
boys.
24.       Wastage.  High dropout rates contribute to overall low enrollments
and result in less than half of students who enter grade 1 progressing to
grade 5. This means that about half of the money invested in primary educa-
tion is spent on those who fail to achieve literacy. The factors described
in paragraph 23 above that affect initial enrollment also influence retention.
In addition, education competes with farm activities for the child's time, and
education is expensive both because of the indirect cost of labor lost as well
as the cost of textbooks and materials. High dropout, and resultant small
class groups for higher grades, add to inefficiency through under-utilization
of teachers and facilities.
25.       Low Quality.  The quality of instruction is a critical factor in-
fluencing enrollments, retention and achievements. Although a new curriculum
has been introduced, less than half of school time is devoted to basic language
and numeracy skills (two-thirds of school time would be more appropriate).
Science is also often neglected because most schools lack teachers with appro-
priate training. Teaching is especially difficult in small schools, where
multigrade classes are the norm and instruction is based largely on rote learn-
ing. Although texts have recently been revised, they do not have sufficient
regional relevance. Instruction is thus not adapted to local conditions, and
virtually all decisions on running schools are made without community partici-
pation.
26.       A major factor contributing to the low quality of primary education
is the ineffectiveness of teaching staff, both because of the lack of appro-
priate training and because of limited supervision. Facilities at pre-service
teacher training institutes are often inadequate, and staff have generally had
little (if any) exposure to primary education. The curriculum, though recently
revised, still emphasizes theory and advanced subject matter rather than prac-
tical work and thus fails to prepare students for effective primary teaching.
Moreover, about 25% of primary teachers lack any formal training and their
performance is less effective because they receive little supervisory support
on the job. The primary and secondary levels of education are managed and
supervised jointly; this results in a neglect of the primary level compared



-9-
with the secondary level, which is perceived to have greater importance.
Supervision is provided by Assistant Education Officers, who are each expec-
ted to cover about 250 primary schools per year (about 40 schools would be
the maximum for effective supervision). As a result, the schools remain
largely unsupervised and teacher absenteeism is common.
27.       Financial Constraints.  Low levels of government spending have
contributed to the low quality of primary education, which has received only
0.6% of GNP. The higher allocations to the level proposed in the current
Five-Year Plan (1976-1981) should help reverse the past trend for secondary
and higher education to expand faster than the primary level. A persistent
problem in education spending has been the imbalance between federal (devel-
opment) and provincial (recurrent) funds, which should constitute the bulk
of education spending to ensure efficient use of facilities. Thus, even if
the Federal Government now allocates sufficient development funds to the
primary level, the Provincial Governments may not be able to provide the
requisite recurrent funds, especially in view of expected higher enrollments
and the recent general deterioration in provincial budgets.
28.       The problems of unequal access, wastage and low quality need to be
tackled through a comprehensive, long-term program. Conditions vary among
provinces, and different approaches should be developed which take local
conditions into account. The contribution of various measures to effective
delivery of primary education needs to be assessed. Such measures include
increasing the supply of teachers (particularly females) in rural areas;
improving supervision; involving parents and the community in the educational
process; increasing facilities and materials; and adapting the curriculum to
local needs. Strategies should then be formulated with the overall aim of
improving and expanding primary education without generating expenditures that
federal and provincial authorities cannot meet or sustain. This is the thrust
of the proposed project.
Government Strategy
29.       Under Pakistan's first four development plans (1955-75), education
spending was aimed at physical expansion of the system and quality improvement.
The education policy statement of 1972 placed emphasis on primary education
for the first time and the Fifth Plan sets a goal of universal enrollment for
boys by 1987; a new education policy statement in October 1978 sets 1992 as the
target for girls. While these are ambitious targets, the Fifth Plan allocations
reflect the Government's concern with education in general, and primary educa-
tion in particular; allocations for education spending under the Plan have been
increased to 3.7% of GNP, and for the first time primary allocations are higher
than secondary and post-secondary allocations. The Government is also attempt-
ing to ensure that funds allocated to the primary level are not transferred to
other levels.
Bank Group Participation
30.       Three IDA credits totalling US$27.5 million have been made to the
education sector in Pakistan. These projects were mainly (71%) directed to



- 10 -
post-secondary and higher education, and almost entirely (98%) to agricul-
tural, technical and teacher education. The first two education projects
(Cr. 50-PAK, 1964, and Cr. 206-PAK, 1970) provided US$8.5 million and US$4
million, respectively, to improve and expand post-secondary education (an
agricultural university, industrial technician training and an engineering
university). The Third Education Project (Cr. 678-PAK), which is in the
early stages of implementation, is providing US$15 million to assist in
expanding and improving: (a) middle and higher level agricultural education;
and (b) general teacher training, particularly in rural areas and among
females. Shortages of local funds and problems with civil works contractors
and procurement delayed the first two projects, which also had difficulties
in the utilization of technical assistance. The projects were partially
successful in achieving their objectives. The Project Completion Report of
the first project (which was completed in 1976, eight years late, partly due
to wars and floods) concluded that project institutions were producing man-
power in excess of demand -- a situation which has since been altered by the
flow of Pakistani workers to the Middle East - and that the quality of agri-
cultural education had been improved substantially, while the quality of tech-
nical training had not. The manpower objective of the second project has been
met, with enrollments at the NED Engineering University exceeding planned capa-
city; however, quality improvement has been lower than expected. The Engineer-
ing University has prepared a staff development plan to try to alleviate this
problem. The difficulties in raising teaching standards at the Engineering
University and technical institutes have been exacerbated by the emigration
of qualified teaching staff. The actions taken under the Third Project, and
proposed under the Primary Education Project, to avoid a repetition of the
types of problems experienced under earlier Bank education projects are
discussed in paragraph 42 below.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The project was identified and largely prepared by the Government
with the assistance of USAID and was initially intended for USAID financing.
However, because of limitations on available USAID funds, in March 1978 the
Government requested the Association to consider the project. With the
agreement of USAID, IDA accepted the request, assisted in further project
preparation, and proceeded with field appraisal in August/September 1978.
A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2305-PAK, dated March 15, 1979) is being dis-
tributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington in February 1979; the Pakistan delegation
was led by Mr. Masud Mufti, Joint Secretary, Economic Affairs Division.
Objectives and Scope
32.       The proposed project would constitute the first, experimental
phase of a long-term program to overcome the major problems of primary
education. It would pursue four major objectives:
(a) increasing access to primary education, especially for
girls and rural poverty groups by, (i) providing school



- 11 -
facilities and materials, and (ii) promoting parental
demand for primary school enrollment;
(b) reducing wastage, by lowering rates of dropout and
repetition;
(c) improving the quality of instruction through (i) recurrent
in-service teacher training and (ii) local, more frequent
supervision; and
(d) reducing costs by eliminating wastage, introducing assistant
teachers, and moving toward larger class and school sizes.
Experimentation and evaluation would be a central feature of the project.
Comparisons would be made between project and non-project schools to seek
answers and evaluate possible solutions to a number of persistent problems
in primary education, i.e. causes of non-enrollment and dropout, teacher
absenteeism, and low learning achievement of pupils. The project proposes
an approach to these objectives which, while limited in scale, is large enough
to provide an adequate basis for experimentation and research. In addition,
it would develop local research capability through the involvement of local
research staff in project activities, thus preparing for subsequent phases
of the long-term improvement program.
33.       The project would experiment with various means of reducing cost and
improving quality of primary education. It would include about 4,100 schools
(7-8% of the national total), nearly 10,000 teachers, and 380,000 enrolled
students as well as about 400,000 non-enrolled children (70% female). The
scope and coverage of project components would vary by province and would be
higher in disadvantaged areas (in terms of opportunities for girls) in
Baluchistan and NWFP. As well as moving toward more equitable distribution
of education, the project would allow varying approaches to the project compo-
nents to be tested. The project would include: (a) a preparatory period of
about 20 months for selection and training of personnel, construction of
physical facilities, and design of experiments; (b) three experimental school
years (beginning March 1981), during which the project's impact would be
evaluated; and (c) a follow-up period of 6-9 months for final analysis and
recommendations.
Project Components
34.       Teacher Service (Proposed outlay:  $4.6 million equivalent). 1/  The
proposed project would strengthen the teacher service by recruiting assistant
teachers and by providing more intensive in-service teacher training. The
project would finance the salaries of 340 assistant teachers (at least 190
females), who would have grade 8 education or equivalent experience and would
be recruited locally. The assistant teacher positions would be created as a
1/   This and subsequent statements of proposed outlays exclude contingencies.
Cost of experiments, transport, training, experts and salaries have been
divided proportionately between the teacher service and supervision
components.



- 12 -
means of utilizing unemployed rural persons who would be familiar with the
community and could teach near their homes; the use of these teaching staff
represents a promising cost reducing factor and a means of supplying female
teachers in rural areas. Teacher training would comprise pre-service training
of assistant teachers and frequent in-service training of about 10,000 regular
and assistant teachers. Both the pattern and content of training would be
improved. Training would be given more frequently, with each teacher receiv-
ing 2-3 weeks annually of intensive resident training on general topics as
well as 2-3 days in alternate months to deal with specific local needs.   The
training content would focus on more effective teaching methods, including
management of multigrade classes, improving school/community relationships,
and adapting the curriculum to the pupils' needs. The project would finance
trainers' services, and travel and per diem allowances of trainees.
35.       Supervision (Proposed outlay:  $2.5 million equivalent).  The
present system lacks adequate supervision at and below the district level,
resulting in low teacher motivation and performance, and a high level of
absenteeism. The proposed project would aim to improve supervision below
the district level by creating positions for primary school supervisors and
learning coordinators. About 50 supervisors and 460 learning coordinators
would be recruited from among successful primary teachers, with five years'
and two years' experience, respectively. The project would thus create career
opportunities in primary education that allow teaching staff to progress to
supervisory positions. Supervisory staff would work exclusively on project
activities and would receive appropriate training to carry out their duties;
these include providing support for teaching staff, improving attendance and
enrollment, and expanding community participation in the schools' development.
These functions would primarily be the responsibility of the learning coor-
dinators, who would be guided and assisted by the supervisors.
36.       Instructional Materials and Curricula (Proposed outlay:  $1.1
million equivalent). The project would provide financing for textbooks,
teachers' guides, library books and school equipment. It would also include
technical assistance and training to develop new materials and modify curri-
cula to meet local needs.
37.       Physical Facilities (Proposed outlay:  $5.3 million equivalent).
The project would finance construction and furniture for about 1,000 addi-
tional classrooms, mainly extensions to existing schools to achieve larger
school size; residences for about 675 female teachers; and 10 small centers
for in-service teacher training.
Training Program
38.       Successful implementation of the project would depend on the train-
ing received by project personnel. Accordingly, an extensive training program
for about 11,000 staff is proposed. Initially, about 40 project personnel
(trainers, research and administrative staff) would receive intensive local
and foreign training to gain first-hand knowledge of successful primary
systems elsewhere. Project trainers would adapt this knowledge to Pakistan's
needs and promote the use of effective methods in subsequent training programs.
Other trainers and non-teaching staff (260) would receive local training by



- 13 -
the overseas group after it returns, and together the two trainer groups
would be responsible for larger scale training of teachers. Training would
be provided to teaching and supervisory staff (10,800), both before the start
of and during the three experimental school years.
Evaluation
39.       The proposed project would provide experimentation into the contri-
bution of selected inputs to achievement of project objectives. The project
would measure improvements, particularly in female enrollments and achieve-
ments, and cost reductions achieved through provision of such project elements
as appointment of assistant teachers, female teachers' residences, better
teacher training, improved supervision, and greater contact with parents.
Baseline measurements would be collected before the first of the three experi-
mental school years on population, enrollment and attendance; tests of pupil
achievements and attitudes, and of teacher competence; teachers' and parents'
attitudes; and costs. Results of the project would be compared with the
baseline measures. Further comparison would be made with a sample of non-
project schools. Measurement and analysis of project results would be con-
ducted by local and expatriate research specialists.
Technical Assistance
40.       Under the project, technical assistance would be provided to support
planning and organization of training, experimentation, and evaluation. A
total of 12 man-years of consultant services would be provided. In addition,
50 man-years of local specialist services would be engaged. Most of the local
assistance would be involved in experimentation and evaluation, with limited
support (10 man-years) for training activities. The conclusion of consultancy
contracts for training and baseline studies to be completed before March 31,
1981, would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft
Credit Agreement), and all remaining consultancy contracts would be concluded
by December 31, 1980 (Section 3.03 of the draft Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
41.       The total project cost is estimated at $17.2 million equivalent,
inclusive of duties and taxes ($0.6 million). Allowances of $0.6 million and
$3.6 million have been made for physical and price contingencies, respectively.
The foreign exchange component is estimated at $5.4 million or 31% of total
project cost. A summary table of the estimated costs is shown in the Credit
and Project Summary. Consultants' costs are estimated at $75,000 per man-year
for foreign consultants and $6,000/man-year for local specialists. Training
cost estimates are based on detailed breakdowns of training requirements.
Architectural design services are estimated at about 2% of construction cost.
The cost of salaries is based on applicable government salary scales ranging
from $360 to $5,500 per man-year. The proposed IDA credit of $10.0 million
amounts to about 60% of total net project costs and would finance 100% of the
foreign exchange costs and 39% of local costs; the Government would finance
the remaining $7.2 million. IDA financing of salaries and allowances is justi-
fied in view of the project content; the two most important project inputs
rely on the creation of new teaching and supervisory posts, which would be



- 14 -
established and financed under the project with a view to becoming permanent
positions upon successful completion of the project.
Project Implementation
42.       The first two IDA-financed projects in Pakistan suffered implementa-
tion delays and efforts were therefore made under the Third Education Project
to strengthen implementation capacity. Revolving funds were established to
avoid delays caused by rupee shortages; the project director received train-
ing in a Bank-sponsored implementation seminar and was therefore familiar with
IDA procedures; project activities were coordinated through line agencies in
two provinces and provincial project implementation units created in the re-
maining two; a Federal Project Coordinating Unit, linked to the Bureau of
Educational Planning, was established to coordinate all aspects of the project;
and the signing of technical assistance contracts was made a condition for
some credit fund withdrawals. These measures are helping to minimize imple-
mentation delays and the proposed project would draw on lessons learned under
that project.
43.       The proposed project would seek to build a permanent implementation
capacity within the primary education subsector. At the federal level the
Bureau of Educational Planning would assume overall responsibility for imple-
mentation and be strengthened with additional senior personnel in training,
evaluation and research to enable it to coordinate provincial activities. The
proposed project would also strengthen implementation capacity at the provin-
cial level. Additional senior and professional personnel would be appointed
to the provincial departments of education to implement this and other educa-
tion projects. Generally, the provincial project units would organize selec-
tion of field personnel; conduct pre-and in-service training; organize (in
collaboration with the Bureau of Educational Planning) all activities related
to educational research, evaluation and experimentation; and be responsible
for procurement of civil works, local procurement of furniture and equipment,
and provision of architectural services.
44.       Training, Experimentation and Evaluation.  Pre-service training
would be organized by the Provincial Project Units and completed during the
preparatory period (see paragraph 34 above). A general training plan and a
detailed overseas training plan, together with a preliminary plan for experi-
mentation and evaluation have been completed by the Government. The Federal
and Provincial Project Units would have responsibility for preparing research
and evaluation plans. During the preparatory project period (ending in March
1981), benchmark studies of student achievement and related socio-cultural
behavioral measurements would be gathered with the assistance of local re-
searchers working with foreign specialists. The proposed project would dev-
elop the capacity of local university faculties of education and institutes
of educational research by training and utilizing their staff under contract
for experimentation and evaluation. The Government would prepare and send to
IDA for comment (a) by June 30, 1981, a report on baseline measurements and
results; (b) detailed annual reports on project results by June 30, 1982, 1983
and 1984; and (c) by June 30, 1983, a draft comprehensive proposal for expan-
sion and improvement of primary education (Section 3.09 of the draft Credit
Agreement).



- 15 -
45.       Physical Design.  Most construction would involve minor extensions
to existing schools. However, the Government has, with Unesco assistance,
prepared several experimental low cost designs for new schools and some
provincial Public Works Departments are planning to construct a few pilot
project schools using these designs under the project. Preparation of tender
documents, tendering and supervision would be undertaken by the Public Works
Departments in Sind and NWFP; by the People's Work Program in Punjab; and by
the Department of Local Government in Baluchistan. The specific manpower and
administrative structures of these agencies would enable them to implement
small-scale projects in large numbers. Local consultants would help prepare
minor supplemental architectural designs.
46.       School Location Planning.  Criteria for location of project schools
have been developed and selection has been finalized. Over 95% of the project
schools are existing schools whose sites are generally considered suitable for
extension.
47.       Finance Implementation.  Local funds ($5.0 million equivalent) have
been earmarked in the Government's current fiscal year (ending June 30, 1979)
for implementation of the proposed project. Project preparation is generally
well advanced and the Government is anxious to start implementation. Accept-
able designs of most civil works have been prepared. Civil works contracts
signed after November 30, 1978 would be included in the project (advance con-
tracting), although the proposed credit would not finance expenditures prior
to the date of the credit. In order to facilitate timely preparatory work on
training, evaluation and experimentation, it is proposed that the Association
provide retroactive financing of up to $100,000 to cover 100% of expenditures
incurred on or after January 31, 1979 for technical assistance (Schedule 1(4)
of the draft Credit Agreement).
48.       To ensure adequate provision of local funds, the Government would
make budget allocations in accordance with an agreed implementation plan and,
during the implementation period, would consult the Association by March 1
each year to review the estimated fund requirements.
49.       Implementation Schedule.  Project implementation is expected to
take about 5-1/2 years and be completed by September 1984. The preparatory
period began immediately after appraisal and is expected to be completed by
March 1981. This period would include: (a) pre-service training; (b) pre-
paratory work for evaluation and experimentation; (c) all construction; and
(d) all procurement. The main project period would last from March 1981 to
January 1984 and would cover implementation of experimentation and studies,
and recurrent teacher training. Final evaluation would last eight months
beginning in early 1984.
Procurement
50.       Construction for several schools would normally be tendered as one
contract, but few such contracts are expected to exceed $50,000 each. Because
of the small size of civil works and furniture contracts and the geographic
dispersion of the sites, it is not expected that foreign firms would be
interested. Contracts for civil works and furniture (about $5.5 million)



- 16 -
would therefore be awarded on the basis of locally advertised competitive
bidding in accordance with government procurement procedures which are satis-
factory. Direct labor ("force account") could be used at about 20% of project
sites (about US$1.5 million). Because of the small size of all civil works
contracts, prior IDA review of contract awards would not be required. Equip-
ment and vehicle contracts exceeding $50,000 (about $0.7 million) would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank procurement guidelines. Local manufacturers would be given a preferen-
tial margin of 15% over competing imports, or the existing rate of import
duties, whichever is the lower.  Contracts for equipment and vehicles which
cannot reasonably be grouped in packages of $50,000 (about $1.5 million) would
be awarded without prior IDA review on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally in accordance with local bidding procedures acceptable to the
Association. Where competitive bidding is inappropriate, or is not expected
to yield lower prices than local shopping, sundry equipment could be procured
by soliciting at least three price quotations subject to a maximum value of
$10,000 for each such contract and an aggregate total of $250,000. Books
($0.5 million) would be procured in accordance with standard government
procedures.
Disbursements
51.       The credit would be disbursed over about 5-1/2 years to meet:
(a)  100% of the foreign expenditures and 80% of local expendi-
tures for equipment, books and vehicles;
(b)  25% of the local expenditures for civil works and furniture;
(c)  100% of total expenditures for specialist services, includ-
ing civil work designs; training and fellowships; and
(d)  100% of the total expenditures on salaries and allowances
(net of tax) of assistant teachers, learning coordinators
and supervisors recruited for the project.
Since the project would involve about 4,100 schools and salaries of large
numbers of staff, the Federal Project Unit would maintain a documentation file
for each school. Disbursements would be made against summaries of expenditures
prepared by the responsible agency, certified by the Federal Project Unit and
audited annually. Disbursement is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.
Benefits and Risks
52.       The project is expected to lead to substantial improvements in
primary education in terms of access, efficiency, learning achievements and
cost reductions. An attempt has been made to quantify project benefits, but
figures are illustrative only. It is estimated that, in the project areas,
access to primary schooling would be extended to about 15,000 male students
and 30,000 females; overall completion rates would be increased from 50% to
60% for initial male entrants and from 35% to 50% for females; and, conse-
quently, an additional 40,000 males and 50,000 females would be expected to



- 17 -
complete the full five-year primary cycle. In other terms, in the project
areas only about 35% of the males and 10% of the females in the relevant age
groups would normally achieve literacy, but with the project these figures are
expected to increase to roughly 45% and 25%, respectively. Improved attendance,
coupled with better teaching, materials and facilities, are also expected to
contribute to improved learning achievements. Overall, the gains for females
are expected to be proportionately greater than for males. Moreover, the
project is expected to contribute to reduced unit costs through the use of
larger class and school sizes, and lower-paid assistant teachers. Even with
the increased cost of more intensive supervision, annual unit recurrent costs
are expected to decrease on balance by 15-25%.
53.       Though significant, these short-term benefits would be realized only
in the project areas, which constitute less than 10% of the primary education
system. The fundamental justification for the project is the contribution it
would make to finding solutions to the problems of primary education, which
could then be applied over time to the entire primary education system. Thus,
the project could eventually benefit the country as a whole through quality
improvements and cost reductions in the delivery of primary education, which
if applied nationwide would permit an expansion of enrollment coverage by the
same proportion without increases in expenditure. Ultimately, the success of
the project must be measured by the benefits of primary education to the
individual and the positive effects on society. Studies in other countries
point to benefits of a more literate population in terms of higher agricultural
productivity, greater acceptance of population control measures and lower
fertility rates among females, and better understanding of nutrition and
health measures.
54.       The project faces risks in implementation.  It seeks to bring about
fundamental changes in a system which has extensive and formidable weaknesses.
The program proposed is complex, covering not only different components but
also a mix of approaches for each province. To minimize these risks, federal
and provincial implementation units have been strengthened, and design of the
experimentation would be adapted to available administrative resources. Local
staff have become familiar with the project's scope and objectives through
their involvement in project preparation, which should also lessen implemen-
tation problems. There is also a risk that the impact of project inputs could
be lessened because of non-educational factors such as the traditional atti-
tudes of rural parents to the education of their children, particularly
females, and poverty and the costs of education, which lessen parents' concern
with school attendance. To lessen this risk, a comprehensive training program
would prepare project personnel, particularly supervisory staff, for the kinds
of teaching and counseling tasks that could involve parents and the community
in the educational process and thereby attempt to change present attitudes.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, draft Project Agreements between the Associa-
tion and the Provinces of Baluchistan, North West Frontier, Punjab and Sind,



- 18 -
respectively and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors separately. Special conditions of the credit are listed in
Section III of Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness (Section
6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement) include the conclusion of
contracts for consultants' services for training and baseline studies to be
completed before March 31, 1981.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 16, 1979



- 19 -                                             ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                  - MOST RECENT EST1MATEL
TOTAL            803.9                                                    SAME         SAE      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     244.5                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  tb   1970 lb ESTIMATE lb        REGION Le   GROUP Id    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (110)                   60.0       120.0      190.0           167.4       182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       61.0        98.0     183.0             65.7        88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        45.3         59.8      73.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.5         24.8       26.5            12.8        15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        56.0        74.0       91.0            85.2        46.8        42.7
PER SQ. K1. AGRICULTURAL LAND    198.0        246.0      300.0           322.6       254.1        95.0
POPUIATION AGE STR'UCTURE (PERCENT)
0-,4 YRS.                          41.8        43.4      46.5             44.0        43.6        44.9
15-N4 YRS.                         51.8         52.7      50.5             52.9        53.3        52.8
65 IRS. AND ABOVE                    4.6         3.9        3.0             2.9         2.9         3.0
POPUIATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.3         2.9        3.0              2.2        2.4         2.7
URBAN                               5.0         4.0        3.9             4.2         4.0         8.8
CRUDI BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      49.2        47.6       47.4            45.1        44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      26.3        20.1       16.5            17.3        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2         3.7        3.6             3.2         2.9         3.2
FAMIIY PLANNING
AC(EPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..      1908.1    2085.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..         ..            13.7        14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEI OF 1OoD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              81.0       100.0      96.6 Lf          95.6        96.4       104.3
PER (APITA SUPPLY OF
CAlORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRUEENTS)                    84.0        94.0      93.0             91.1        92.3        99.5
PRCrEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           48.5        59.4       54.0            49.6        50.0        56.8
CF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        16.0 Isa    14.0       14.3            12.6        13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..         17.4        ..               ..         ..          7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.1         47.4       49.8             43.1       45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           142.0 Lj&,   124.3     113.0            99.5       102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                =-        21.0       25.0             30.0       26.4        31.1
URBAN                                *-        77.0       75.0            66.3        63.5        68.5
RURAL                                *-         4.0        5.0             17.2       14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         3.0        6.0             15.7       16.1         37.5
URBAN                                ..         12.0      21.0            66.9        65.9         69.5
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             2.5         3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           7450.0 /I   4310.0 Li 3910.0 Li        8830.8    13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    14860.0       8440.0    7180.0 fl        8479.3      6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2070.0      1870.0    1870.0           1624.5      1157.6        786.5
URBAN                             370.0       500.0      560.0              ..       183.3        278.4
RURAL                           22850.0     12390.0   12360.0               ..      1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..               ..       19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAC-E SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.4         5.3         ..               ..        5.2
URBAN                               5.6         5.5         ..               ..        4.8
RURAL                               5.4          5.2        ..               ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               3.1           ..        ..
URBAN                               3.1           ..        ..               ..        1.8          2.3
RURAL                               3.1          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..       25.9         28.3
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..        8.7         10.3



-20 -                                              ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PACISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PAKISTAN                                                a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAM         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MODST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Ab     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Ab       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS                                       m
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                30.0         44.0      51.0             59 1       62.9         75.8
FEMALE               13.0         24.0      31.0/ln          38:4       45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  11.0        14.0      15.0             19.9       14.4         17.7
FEMALE                3.0          6.0       7.0              9.9        8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  1.0          1.5       1.5              1.5        6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIKARY                           39.0         41.0      42.0             38.2       38.5         34.3
SECOhDARY                         24.0         20.0      19.0             23.5        19.8        23.5
ADULT 1ITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        16.0        20.0      21.0/0           35.6        36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTiON
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATION                          1.0         3.0       3.0              2.2        3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATION                          3.0        14.0      15.0             14.9       31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATION                           *-         0.7       1.8               ..        2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   7.0          ..       5.0              6.4         6.0        16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8           ..       3.0 /k            ..         1.4         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL IABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13000.0      18100.0   20.00.0
FEMWE (PERCENT)                     8.7         9.3       9.9             21.3       24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              59.0        57.0      54.8             62.8        60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 17.9        18.7
PARTICIpAtrION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                31.5        28.7      27.9             35.8        39.8        37.8
MALE                                 55.2        50.4      48.6             52.4        53.3        50.3
FEMALE                                5.7         5.5       5.7             15.6        19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6         1.6        1.7             1,3         1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3 /1      17.8      17.3             18.6       20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.3 /1      41.8      41.5             42.8       45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.4 L        8.0       8.4              7.3        5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5 /1      20.2      20.6             19.3       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      65.0             80.2       88.5        155.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      83.0             67.2       71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..               ..      100.8        143.7
RURAL                                *'          .-      48.0             39.8       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      48.0             50.3       46.0         22.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      31.0             44.6       48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geo_tric means, excluding the extrea
values of the indicator asd the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimte, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Incose (S281-550 per capita,
1976);  /f  1977;   A4  Includes Bangladesh;   lh  1960-62;   /i  1962-65;   11  Registered, not all
p-actising il the country;   /k  1972;   11  1963-64.
/a    1977178  estimate  is  54.
fin      1977/78  estimate  is  33.
/o       1977/78  estimate  is  24.                                                          September  1978



- 2 1 -
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL I11DICATORS                                                       ANNEX   I
No1.The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the inldicator and the mosl
populaeted country in each group.  Coverage of countrets among the indicator, depends on availability of dais and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplua Oil Importers and indicators of access to oeter and sexcrete disposal, housiog, incooe diatributionensd poverty ate
simple pop,lation-weighted geometric means without th.exsclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand eq. bin)                                                               Population per hospital bed - total. urben. and rurel - Population  (total,
Total - Total surface area cosprising lend eree and inland waters,                          urban, and rurel) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Aoeicu1tural - Most reos..c estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                  available in public cod private general and epseislised hospital sod r-
or Permanently for crepe, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                      hebilitation centers.  Hiospitals are establishm.ents permanaently staffed by
lie fellow,                                                                               at least one physician.  REtabliehments providing principally custodial
care are noat inkcluded. Rural hoepitals, however, include health and medi-
GNiP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNiP per capitsa.etimnatee at eurrenr marker prices,                  ea1 centers nor permanently staffed by a physician  (but by a medical a.-
calculated by swee  convereion method as World Bank Atlas  (1975-77 basis);               destent, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accomomodatioo and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissione or hospital bed - Total number of adnissonos to or dischargen
ENERGY CONSUMTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of coomaercial energy                       frmhsitals diwided by the oumber of bedo..
(coal sod lignite, petroleum, naturel gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal. electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                    NOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total. urbunt, and rurol-
POPUL.ATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household conisits of a group of Individuals who abate living quartero
Total pop    i    midJ- ear  gmllione -- As of July 1; If not available,                    and their main meals.  A hoarder or lodger may or may not be included in
iiiijioftwo  nd-yar atimaee;1960, L970, and 1977 data,                           the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban populatios fparcant of total) - Ratio of urbam to total populs-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average sum-
of data among countriec.                                                                  her of pereons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied corventional
Population deneity                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structureo sod
Pe   so  k.      id-year population per square kilometer (150 hectares)                     unocoupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to electri.city, (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per eq. be. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Convntional delings with electricity In living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, cod rural dwellings respectively.
Population age etru,ctura (percent) - Children (0-14 yeare), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 ypeer  and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year popalation.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment rstio.
Population growth e,,te (paccent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primary school - total, and female - Total and festle enrollment of all ageu
growth rates of t.'tal and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at the primary level as percentages of respectiv. ly primary school-age
1960-70, end 1970- 75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-li years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (.. thousand) - AoouaI live births per, thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for counc ties with ociversal ed.-
mlid-year populati,co; ton-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                    cation enrollment may emceed 100 percent since 9otme pupils are below or
1970 and five-yea, average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate,                       above the official school age.
Ccude death rate (ocr thousand) - Annual deaths per, thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total, and female, - Computed as above; secoedary educe-
year population; Ian-yaso arithmetic averagee ending in. 1960 and 1970                   cton requires at les..t four years of approved potosry iuatructioc; pr-
and five-year avel age ending in 1975 for moat recent estimaste.                          vides general vocationsl, or teacher training in, tructioce for pupils
Gross reproduction late - Average number of daughters a women will hear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of ago; correspondence courses arc generally
In her normal cepiuductive period if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
oPacificrfortrIliry rates; usualIly five-year averages  ending in 1960,                 Voca.tional  enrollment (percent of .....odaryl  - Vo-tios..l inotituti..s  in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           cude technical, industrial, or, other prograos whichb  perote independontly
Penily ol.anoina - ac:ceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual nombe,, of                       or as departments of secondary iostitutions.
acceptors of birth-control1 devicee under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total otudents  enrolled in
planning program.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers  f  ...rmhars In, rho  -re-
Family plaosins - u,.or (srcent of married woman) - Percentage of                           spending levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (shim tr red and unto) o
devices to sll masried wemen in see  age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 ysarseand over.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUMPTION
Index of food producltion oer capita (1970e100) - lodex number of per                    Paseeesger cars (per thousand population   - Passenges  caro comprisr motor cam.
capita annual production of all food coxaoditias.                                       seating loes  than eight persons; emcludes ambulancis, hearnes sod military
Per cpitasuppl of  aloris (prcent o f requirements) - Computed from              vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food suplies available in country per capita                  Radio receivers (oer thousand population) - All typ.s of receivers for radio
per day.  Available eupplies compriae domeatic production, imports less                 broadcasts to genral public per thousand of popul,tion; excludes unlicenoed
exports, and chanc,es is stock.  Net supplies eaclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers In Countries and in years when registration of radio sero was in
quantities used Ic. food processing, and losese  in distribution.  Re-                  effect; data for recent years say nor be comparbis since mootconre
quirenenlts were estimated by FAO based on phyaiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
mel activity and health conaideriag anvironmemtal temperature, body                    TV receivers ( prtosn   ouain   - TV receivecs for broadcast to genersA
weights, age and tam distributione of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; eacludes un,licenced TV receivrer  in coon-
cent for waste at household level,                                                        triels and is years when registration of TV sets ass in effect.
Per capita supply of  receini  cm,os  e,r day  - Protein content of per                  Newspaper. cidrculation (per thousand poplaultion) - Pf.o-  the avruge clrools-
capita net supply                       Net supply of food is defined as                  lio  of "dily general interest neawspaper", defiled o   periodical pobli-
above.  Raquirenee.ts for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general ne's'.  It In considered to
a  iims, allowance of 60 grens of total protein par day and 20 grams                   be "daily" if it appears at least four times a wsek.
of animal and puls  Protein, of which 10 gram  should be asima1 protein.               Cinema annual atteodsoce per capita per year - Om...c ton ths nber of ticiets
These standards ale lower than those of 7) grams of total protein and                     sold during the year. Including admissionls to drive-in cir,emau and mobile
23 grama of animal protein as an average for the oorld, proposed by                       units.
PAO in the! Third borld Food Survey.
Per capita orotein supply from, animal and pales  - Protein supply of food              EXPLOYMINT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - fc..nomically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) muortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per tbous-                  forces and unemployed but eacluding housewives,  tcd-vtn, etc.  refini-
and in age group 1_4 years, to children in this age group.                                lions in various countries are not compsrablm.
Femal fpercent) - Pamel  labor feros as psecest.ec of total luhb- force
HEALTH                                                                                    Agriculture (perce.nt) - Labor frore In farming, forestry, huocus0 and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                          as percentage o fto tal labor force.
remining at birth; uusilly five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   industr (pren)-Labor force in mining, cons.truccion.  oaoufocrurin6 end
and195                                                                                    electricity, water sod gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infnt mortaltyrat  (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                       Farticipatiss rats (percent) - total, male, and fema.le - Total, solo, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                 female labor force aso percentaies of their, respective ppuplocio-o.
Access to safe water (percen of polation- total, urban, end rural -                         Th... are no-s adjusred psrtioipstior rates refleccicg gr-v-c
Number, of people (total, urban.,sodu rural) wth reasonable access to                      tructorn of tbe populatior, ond 1og lion trend.
safe water supp ly (includee treatad surface waters or untreated but                   Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of populatio.n uder, 15 on  65 cod ove r tc
unc ontamtnatd water such as that from protected borehol.s, springs,                      the labor force ic ago group of 15-b4 years
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urlban area a public fountain or standpost located not mere                    INCOPSE DIISTRIBUTON
than 200 meters.from a houc  mavy be considered as being within te-                   Pecnae  fpiate iecone (both in cash and bind) received by richest 5
sonabl   caccs  of thathouse.  In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percest, and poorest 40 prerct
npip that the hoseife or members of the household do not have to                         of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day In fetching the family's
wate:rneed ts.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET iGROoynvo
Accas to ecret dispsal nercet ofpopulation) - total, urban, soaEtiad  abouepvry_incee level (S( pe .cpib) -  rhac  nd  -rurl
rural - Number of peopl  ( total, urban, and rural) servad by excrete                       Absolute poverty income level is that income level belct. whict a  c-inaI
disposal as percentages of their respective Populations.  fExrrta                         nutritionally adequate diet plus essentIal  ,o-food requlronor,tn  i.n ot
disposal may include the toslectiom mod dospesa1, with or without                         affordable.
treatmeant, of human excreta and waste-wtatr by water-borne systems                    Estimeted relative Poverty inoose level_(US$ per capita) - urban and rural-
at the use of pit Privies and  similar, installations.                                    Relative poverty.income.level is that income level leanthen -one-thi~rd
Po  ulation per physician - Populatioo divided by number of procticing                      pr capita persona  inrcm   of the contry.
physici.an  qualified from  a medical school at university level.                      isrmmead2 .poputien below povory inon  level (pero...t) -  -b-u o-d rurol1
Population pear nursing person - Population divided by somber of                            Percent of populatien  (urban and rural) who are either  a.bsolute poor`y
Practicing male and female graduate nursec, proctiaal nurses, and                         "relative poor'  whichever is greeter.
assistant nurss..
Io,sc..   ad..  co  Ioa  incoc



- 22 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977/78                                                                               ANNUAL BATE OF GROWTH (%  constant prices)
USS billion        7                                                              1972/73-1976/77       1977/7U
GNP at Market Prices                  17.98          100.0                                                                   4.4               5.3
Gross Domestic Investment              3.06           17.0
Gross National Saving                  2.41           13.4
Current Account Balance             - 0.65           - 3.6
Resource Balance                     - 1.66          - 9.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977/781a
Value Added             Labor Force            V.A. Per Worker
US$ million   %         tdillion     %          US$          %
Agriculture             4,945        32         12.0      55           412        58
Industry               3,586        23          4.1       19           875       124
Services                6,904       45          5.8       26         1,190       169
Total/Average       15,435       100         21.9      100           705       100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                                              Cent.ral Government
(Rs billion)            % of GDP                                              (Rs billior   _        % of GDP
1977/78        1977/78      1973/74-1977/78                                   1977/78      19'7/78      1973/74-1977/78
Current Receipts                     26.7           17.5              16.9                                         20.4         1 .4               12.8
Current Expenditures                 27.7           18.1              18.2                                         20.0         1:,.1              13.3
Current Surplus,Deficit              -1.0           -0.6              -1.3                                          0.4          (i.3              -0.5
Capital Expenditures                 15.9           10.4              10.9                                         13.4          i,.8               8.9
External Assistance (net)             6.7            4.4               5.2                                          6.7          z.4                5.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1973/74       1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78
(billion Rs outstandiisg at snd of period)
Money and Quasi Money                            29.2          34.3         42.8         52.8         64.8
Bank Credit to Public Se.,tor (net)              14.2          16.9         22.1         28.7         33.4
Bank Credit to Private S.,ctor                  15.6           19.7         23.1         30.1         35.7
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP               36.6           33.1         35.7         39.7         42.4
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70 = 100)           170.9         211.3        229.4        255.3        268.7
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                            32.8          23.6          8.6         11.3          5.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)              ..             18.6         30.6         29.7         16.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    ..            26.7         17.1         30.4         18.5
/a  Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.  Serious                                                March 1979
underenumeration may exist, especially of women.



- 23-                                                                                   ANNEX I
ANNEX I
BAlANCE OF PAYMENTS                       1975/76       1976/77    19u7/7    _19787___                   MERCHNDIIDSE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 19751 76 - 1978/ 79)
BALANCE OFoPAYMENSS   1975176  }  millii                                  0$US$ million      _
Exports of Goods, NFS                     1,432          1,404       1,644       1,871                   Raw Cotton                    72.1           5.7
Imports of Goods, NFS                     2,587         2,877        3,307       4,221                   Rice                         249.1          19.6
Resource Balance                       -1,155        -1,473       -1,663      -2,350                   Cotton Yarn                  147.7          11.6
Cotton Cloth                170.7           13.4
Interest Payments (net)                  -  145        -  169       -  177      -  185                   Manufactured Goods           339.3          26.7
Workers  Remittances                         335           578       1,166       1,350                   Other Goods                  292.1          23.0
Other Factor Pay.sent  (net)                  18            13          15           9                     Total                    1,271.0         100.0
Net Transfers.
Balance on Current Account               -  947        _1,051       -  659      -1,176                   EXTERNAL DEBT, JUNE 30, 1978/b             US
Public M9LT Loans                                                                                                                                 mollion
Disbursements                             919            829         688         873                   Outstanding and Dieburoed                7,054.4
Repayments                             -  146        -  172       -167        -  390                   Undisbursed                              2,040.4
Net Disbursemests                            773           657         521         483                   Outstanding trcluding Undisbursed    9,094.8
Capital Grants                               120           149         112         .                     DEBT SERVICE BATIO, 1977/7&S 19.7L
Trans.etionon with IMF                       136            41          41          26
Other lt-msL                                  84             6         315         .                     IBRD/IDA LENDING, JANUARY 31  1979 (1S5 million)
Increase in Beservos                     -  166            198      -  330                                                                                IBRD         IDA
Gross Reoroes (year end)                     63b           438         768         .                     Ou,tstanding and Disburord                      338.1        632.4
Net Reserves (year end)                      167        -   80         224         .                     Undishursed                                     102.1        278.0
Outetanding Including Undisbursed              440.2        910.4
FPel and Related Materials
Imports                                   332            381         529         523
of which:  Petroleum                     255            274         341         352
Eoportr                                    20             26          62          52
of which:  Pntroleo                      -              -           -           -
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Throu-h May 11, 1972            May 11, 1972 - February 15. 1973          Since February 15, 1973
US$  =  Rs 4. 7619                        US0   =  11.00                       Us$     9 9.90
Rs   =  US50.2100                         Rs        0.0909                     Ro   =  0 1010
Ia Current year estimate.
/b ERternal public debt only; private debt is negligible.
ft Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor servicer.
/d  Includes errors end csstons and short-term borrowing.
eE loclading net nor of IMF res.ources.
March 1979



ANNEX II
-24 -
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of January 31, 1979)
Loan or                                                                     US$ Million
Credit                                                               Amount (less cancellations)
Number     Year      Borrower      Purpose                        Bank    TW    IDA   Undisbursed
Seventy-one loans and credits
fully disbursed/a                                             572.0          479.3
621        1969      Pakistan      Railways                       14.5           --        .05
206        1970      Pakistan      Engineering Edu,-ation          --            4.0       .53
213        1970      Pakistan      Power DistributLon              --           23.0       .37
422         1973     Pakistan      Karachi Port IIr                --           18.0      1.7
961        1974      Pakistan      Industrial Investment          25.0           --       3.1
492        1974      Pakistan      Karachi Port IV                 --           16.0      8.5
510        1974      Pakistan      Telecommunications III          --           36.0      2.0
1107       1975      SNGPL         Gas Pipeline IV                60.0           --      11.2
546        1975      Pakistan      Industrial Development
(NDFC)                       --           30.0      5.1
1208       1976      Pakistan      Power Transmission              --   50.0    --       34.4
620        1976      Pakistan      Seed                            --           23.0    21.0
1326       1976      PICIC         Industrial Development         25.0           --       8.4
630        1976      Pakistan      Lahore Water II                 --           26.6    19.2
648        1976      Pakistan      Irrigation & Drainage           --           14.0    12.7
1366       1977      Pakistan      Livestock                       --   10.0    --      10.0
1372/684   1977      Pakistan      Railways                       35.0          25.0    48.3
678        1977      Pakistan      Education                       --           15.0    14.6
683        1977      Pakistan      Flood Rehabilitation            --           40.0      4.5
751        1977      Pakistan      Hill Farming                    --            3.0     2.8
754        1978      Pakistan      SCARP-VI                        --           70.0    70.0
755        1978      Pakistan      Hazara Forestry                 --            1.7     1.7
771        1978      Pakistan      Tarbela II                                   35.0    32.5
813        1978      Pakistan      Punjab Extension                             12.5    12.5
846        1978      Pakistan      Fauji Fertilizer                             55.0    55.0
867        1978      Pakistan      Toot Oil and Gas Dev./b                     (30.0)  (30.0)
Total                                                      731.5  60.0  927.1
of which has been repaid                                   351.3   -0-   16.7
Total now outstanding                                      380.2  60.0  910.4
Amount sold                         23.3
of which has been repaid            22.3                     1.0   --      --
Total now held by Bank and IDA/Sc                          379.2  60.0  910.4
Total undisbursed                                           57.7  44.4  278.0   380.1
/a  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects
in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
b Not yet effective and not included in totals.
Pc Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of January 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                                        Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor                 Type of Business            Loan    Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp. of
Pakistan Ltd.           Rolled Steel Products      0.63        -      0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                    Textiles                   0.75        -      0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement                                    5.25     0.42      5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.         Cement
1963-
1969-                            Development                  -       0.52      0.52
1975     PICIC                   Financing
1965     Crescent Jute
Products                Textiles                   1.84      0.11     1.95
1965     Packages Ltd.           Paper Products              2.31     0.84      3.15
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp. Ltd.              Paper                       5.38     2.02      7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.          Fertilizers                1.00      2.92     3.92
1969     Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd.              Pulp and Paper             5.60      0.63     6.23
Total Gross Commitments                           22.76      7.46    30.22
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                       18.25     1.01    19.26
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                  4.51     6.45    10.96
Undisbursed



- 26 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771       Tarbela Dam:  US$35.0 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
This credit, together with other additional contributions arranged
in 1978, is intended to help finance the repairs and additional works required
to complete the project. In September 1973, the Indus River was diverted
through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage -- the construction of
the closure section of the dam -- to be undertaken. By end-June 1974, the main
embankment had been completed to full height, and the first impoundment began
on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficulties were encountered in
the operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one of the tunnels necessitated
the emptying of the reservoir and repair of the tunnels and outlet structure.
Agreement was reached with the parties of the Indus Basin and Tarbela Develop-
ment Funds whereby special contributions were made by a number of parties,
including IDA (Credit 581-PAK), to help with the cost of repairs and additional
remedial works. The stilling basins suffered further damage in August 1975
and again in April 1976. Stilling Basin 3 has now been repaired and operated
satisfactorily during the 1977/78 irrigation season. Serious erosion in the
plunge pool below the service spillway during 1977 necessitated additional
protection works. A first phase of these was successfully completed during
the 1977/78 construction season and further works are in progress. From 1975
through mid-1978, irrigation requirements have generally been met. Power
generation by the first four units began in 1977.
Loan No. 621         Ninth Railway:  US$14.5 Million Loan of June 26, 1969;
Effective Date: August 28, 1969; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
Loan No. 1372        Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and              Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684       Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The Ninth Railway Project is nearly complete and the loan is
nearly fully disbursed. The Tenth Railway Project is proceeding satisfactorily.
PR's 1976/77 traffic level and financial results were adversely affected by
the severe flooding in August 1976, a sharp drop in wheat imports and political
unrest in the first half of 1977. Revised estimates show an improved financial
performance for 1977/78 as a result of a 20% increase in passenger fares and a
12.5% increase in freight rates effective July 1, 1977 and efforts to hold
down working expenses. PR's performance of covenants is generally satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy then. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                   ANNEX II
Credit No. 206       Engineering Education:  US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1970; Effective Date: July 14, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The Credit provides US$4.0 million to finance the relocation of
the NED University of Engineering and Technology, Karachi (formerly NED
Engineering College) and technical assistance for the upgrading of University
staff. Most of the new physical facilities are now in use. In response to
a new staff development plan prepared by the Government, the Association
has granted a final extension of the Closing Date (until December 31, 1979)
to allow for completion of equipment procurement and an ongoing fellow pro-
gram for teaching staff.
Credit No. 213      Power Transmission and Distribution:  US$23.0 Million
Credit of August 13, 1970; Effective Date: December 11,
1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project is now largely completed and final disbursements of
retention payments are being made.
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:  US$18.0 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18,1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Construction work on the Juna Bunder Berths is currently about
15 months behind schedule. Quay piling was substantially completed in June
1978 and shed construction is now scheduled for completion by September 1979.
The initial and subsequent delays in construction of the Napier Mole Bridge
will mean that completion is likely to be delayed until late 1979 - about
18 months behind schedule. Most of Credit 422 has been disbursed. Construc-
tion of the oil berth has been substantially completed. Bids from prequalified
contractors for channel dredging works and dredger procurement have been
evaluated and formal recommendations are awaited. Disbursements total about
US$7.5 million (47%) from Credit 492. Although agreed improvements to KPT's
management and finances have been delayed, a number of actions have recently
been initiated by KPT which address these problems. Cargo handling and other
mechanical equipment has been contracted out for urgent repairs and new
equipment is being obtained. Steps are being taken to modify the priority
system of ship berthing to promote improved berth utilization.
Loan No. 961         Industrial Investment:  US$25.0 Million Loan of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date:  April 3, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Loan was made to the Government and is administered by PICIC.
It has been fully committed and disbursements amounted to US$21.9 million on
January 31, 1979. The Closing Date has been extended by one year to June 30,
1979, to accommodate three subprojects.



-28 -                 ANNEX II
Loan No. 1326        Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25.0 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1980
As of January 31, 1979, subprojects for US$23.7 million had been
approved by the Bank and disbursements amounted to US$16.6 million. PICIC
remains a capable institution, but its operations and collections have been
adversely affected by general economic and political difficulties. Its pros-
pects will depend largely on developments in the textile sector, which
accounts for a large portion of its portfolio.
Loan No. 988         Multan Fertilizer:  US$35.0 Million Loan of May 24,
1974; Effective Date: July 30, 1974; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Delays and escalating prices for civil works and, to a lesser extent,
for foreign equipment have raised the total project cost above the appraisal
estimate by about 102% (US$109 million). Construction delays have been due to
a shortage of civil contractors' capacity in Pakistan and to late deliveries
of critical equipment. The company has obtained the extra financing required,
in equity from the Government and the foreign partner, and in debt from the
OPEC Special Fund and commercial banks. The project's corporate and field
management has been strengthened. Guarantee tests of the plant were satisfac-
torily completed in January 1979 and the plant will be formally inaugurated in
March 1979, about two years later than the appraisal estimate. The project's
economic return is still close to 28%, because of higher forecast international
fertilizer prices.
Credit No. 510       Third Telecommunications:  US$36.0 Million Credit of
September 12, 1974; Effective Date: October 25, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project covered by this Credit is proceeding reasonably satis-
factorily, but is about 12 months behind schedule. Procurement action for
all the main equipment items has been substantially completed, installation of
plant and equipment is making good progress, and about 70% of the additional
subscribers' lines are in service. As part of the project, T&T was to have
been reorganized so as to function more effectively along commercial lines
and to have been given a greater degree of autonomy. This reorganization,
important to improving the efficiency of operation of the sector, was delayed
but has now been initiated. The Closing Date has been extended by one year
to December 31, 1979 to permit the project to be completed.
Credit No. 546       National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30.0 Million Credit of May 15, 1975:  Effective
Date July 17, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
The Credit has been fully committed and US$24.9 million had been
disbursed as of January 31, 1979. It is anticipated that the Credit will be
fully disbursed by this spring. Although NDFC is currently a profitable insti-
tution, the orientation of its activities has been toward commercial banking



- 29 -
ANNEX II
and its development impact would be improved if it redirected its efforts to-
ward analyzing and helping to resolve sector problems in the public industrial
sector. Its rapid expansion has also placed strain upon its limited manpower
resources and newly established systems.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60.0 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Project activities are generally on schedule. A re-estimate of
final project costs (including the additional pipelines and distribution sys-
tems authorized by the Bank) indicates savings in foreign exchange expendi-
tures of about US$7.3 million. The Borrower has applied to the Bank for
permission to apply these savings towards equipment and facilities needed for
handling additional gas supplies from the Potwar basin as well as toward
several other items that are required.
Credit No. 620       Seed Project:  US$23.0 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Equipment contracts have been awarded for the seed processing plants
of the Punjab and Sind Seed Corporations. Related contracts for civil works
have been awarded in the Punjab, while bids are under evaluation in Sind and
an award is expected shortly. The first processed seed from the project
should be available early in 1980. Development of the Corporations' seed
farms is proceeding ahead of schedule. A registered growers scheme has been
initiated in the Punjab and will be started in the Sind this year. Pilot
projects for vegetables and potatoes in Baluchistan and NWFP and for potatoes
in the Punjab have started. Progress of the seed certification agency of the
national seed registration agency has been slower; GOP has recently nominated
directors for these agencies.
Credit No. 630       Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976; Effective
Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The detailed design of the project is now nearing completion, but
this has been delayed and consequently the construction has also been delayed
and is about 18 months behind schedule. Due to this delay and on the basis
of final design, the project cost is estimated to increase by about 24%. It
is recommended that the engineering consulting service financed by UNDP be
strengthened and extended to cover the prolonged project construction. This
new program is under discussion with the Government and UNDP. The technical
assistance program provided by ODM (UK) for engineering and financial manage-
ment, leak detection and training is being reorganized to better meet the
needs of the project.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Physical construction of the 336-mile transmission line between
Faisalabad (formerly Lyallpur) and Guddu and installation of associated
equipment has started with completion scheduled for December 1980. Virtually
all bidding documents for equipment and materials have been issued and awards
made on the major items. Due to lower-than-expected prices, savings estimated
at about $14 million are expected on this loan.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project: US$14.0 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July 31,
1982
Overall progress is about ten months behind schedule due to delays
of about six months in appointing consultants and of a further four months
as a result of political disturbances in 1977. Tenders for the supply of a
major part of the construction equipment were invited in May 1978, bid open-
ings took place in September and are still being evaluated. The Water and
Power Development Authority is completing construction of housing and offices
for the construction colony and is preparing to start construction early in
1979. Agricultural extension activity has begun and program staff are being
mobilized. Aerial surveys have been completed and arrangements have been made
to carry out field work for the Landsat Imagery component in April 1979. The
National Bank of Pakistan plans to provide credit to farmers for land leveling
beginning early in 1979.
Credit No. 678      Third Education:  US$15.0 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
.December 31, 1982
The project, which became effective in July 1977, provides facilities
for: (a) general teacher training and an experiment on adult functional liter-
acy program and related studies; and (b) agricultural education to assist in
developing higher and middle level agricultural manpower, farmer training and
related studies. Project implementation is about five months behind schedule
because of: (a) earlier delays by the Government in confirming the appoint-
ment of consultant architects in the Province of Sind; (b) delays in contract-
ing technical assistance for the project; and (c) disputes over ownership of
project sites. The Government is addressing these problems and the project
is now making reasonable progress.
Loan No. 1366-T    Punjab Livestock:  US$10.0 Million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project implementation has been much slower than anticipated with
delays being experienced in the appointment of consultants and the formation
of Village Livestock Associations (VLA). Weak management is the key constraint



- 31 -
ANNEX II
to project progress. A new Managing Director of the Punjab Livestock Board
(the major project implementing agency) has just been appointed (the third
one in the last year). Four VLA have been operating since October 1978 and
at present they are supplying about 1,200 1 of milk daily to the Lahore Milk
Plant, which continues to operate at a considerable loss. The Sihala Meat
Plant has been closed down. Four consultant contracts to be awarded under
the project have been negotiated and three have been finalized (Artificial
Insemination, Livestock Education and slaughter plant). The next six months
will be critical and the Bank will closely monitor progress during this
period.
Credit No. 683       Flood Damage Restoration:  US$40 Million Credit of
March 8, 1977; Effective Date: April 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The December 31, 1978, Closing Date for this Credit has been met
and the entire US$40 million utilized. All of the civil works restoration
work for the project has been completed and orders placed for the equipment,
materials and assemblies. Credit disbursements are expected to be completed
in the early part of 1979.
Credit No. 751       Hill Farming:  US$3.0 Million Credit of December 1,
1977; Effective Date: March 7, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
This project is proceeding satisfactorily. The aerial survey has
been carried out; demonstration farms have been established; and the pilot
vegetable and apple schemes and the forestry activities have commenced.
Credit No. 754       SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is about nine months behind schedule due to delays in
the appointment of consultants.
Credit No. 775       Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This Credit became effective on July 14, 1978. Short-lists of
consultants for the feasibility study, and for forestry and inventory spe-
cialists have been prepared. There has been good progress in land acquisition,
building construction and local staff appointments.
Credit No. 846       Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55.0 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This Credit became effective on December 19, 1978. Procurement
is in progress.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 867       Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30.0 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 877       Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan:
US$60.0 Million Credit of February 7, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Three years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project:
Provincial Education Departments, coordinated
by the Federal Government and with USAID assist-
ance.
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and date of
first IDA mission to consider project:
March 1978.
(d) Departure appraisal mission: August 1978;
follow-up mission November 1978.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
February 23, 1979.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
June 1979.
Section II:  Special Association Implementation Actions
The Association was instrumental in arranging a tech-
nical assistance mission in November 1978, composed
of specialists from IDA and two bilateral organizations,
which assisted the Government in preparing detailed
plans for training, experimentation and evaluation.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government would prepare and submit to the
Association: (i) a report on baseline data by
June 30, 1981; (ii) annual progress reports by
June 30, 1982, 1983 and 1984; and (iii) a compre-
hensive proposal for expansion and improvement



- 34 -
ANNEX III
of primary education based on project results by
June 30, 1983 (paragraph 44); and
(b) The conclusion of consultancy contracts for training
and baseline studies to be completed before March 31,
1981, would be a condition of effectiveness, and all
remaining consultancy contracts would be concluded
by December 31, 1980 (paragraph 40).



IBRD 14055
P   A6 4 - I6TA    N!                                                                            U .  S    S  .R   . 6                    JA N U A R Y   19 7 9
PAK I STAN                                                                                 )    y--t   Z ~ i CHINA
Proposed Primary Education Project
PROJECT COVERAGE BY DISTRICT                                                                                          .L.
-36-                                                                                                                                  r.  _/,
TYPES OF SCHOOLS                                                                                         _I6
GIRLS                      BOYS                                                                                          '-
_      00           I _          100%                                                                          ) 
40 - 50                     40- 50%
25%            25                                                                                    Ao99a                                           co-t rol
10                         10 %                                                                                     Abbotobod
O  Tehslls                                      \Ct   '._,_,J   t                w      ,   Swablzt '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~('
D,st-it b.u,dr.ries s  \>m&o 
-   a bovnprPceo- byuW aWrles te ff Jou r ,fs S
boortdor,en CAnwon 00  iso ,oato noet rp1ron the part ofthe Worlrd Bnenrd ito                                                           tM N 4rbe                 e   
a f h b e eat ,  n or ju d g e n t    o n   th e   le g a l    rta t o n  o f    a n y   te rrit ory on a rrl   e n d or oe ne ns   o r                 r      J    y ,
aceptrrance. of sorck booooreote.                                                           (t                                                     
342   a4o                                                                                                                                a  .  I



