CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 892 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Primary Education Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 18, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 892 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 18, 1979, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by agreements of even date herewith between the Associa-
tion and the Punjab, Sind, Baluchistan and North West Frontier
Provinces of the Borrower (hereinafter referred to as Punjab,
Sind, Baluchistan and NWFP), Punjab, Sind, Baluchistan and NWFP
have each.agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect
of carrying out the Project; and
(C) the Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the
agreements referred to in Recital (B) above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Punjab" means the Province of Punjab, a political
subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;


﻿-2-
(b) "Sind" means the Province of Sind, a political subdivi-
sion of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(c) "Baluchistan" means the Province of Baluchistan, a
political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(d) "NWFP" means the North West Frontier Province, a politi-
cal subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(e) "the Provinces" mean the Provinces referred to in
paragraphs (a) to (d) of this Section;
(f) "Punjab Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Punjab of even date herewith as the same
may be amended from time to time;
(g) "Sind Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Sind of even date herewith as the same may
be amended from time to time;
(h) "Baluchistan Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Association and Baluchistan of even date herewith
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(i) "NWFP Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and NWFP of even date herewith as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(j) "the Provinces Project Agreements" mean the agreements
defined in paragraphs (f) to (i) of this Section and "the respec-
tive Province Project Agreement" means in relation to any one
of the Provinces, any such agreement to which that Province is a
party; and
(k) "Rupees" and "Rs" mean rupees in the Borrower's cur-
rency.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from che Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
if the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1989, and ending March 1,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Chief Project Director of the Federal
Project Unit referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause the Project to be carried out, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, education and engineering practices, and shall provide
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required 'or the purpose. To
that end, the Borrower shall make and cause Lae Provinces to make,
adequate and timely budgetary provisions for the implementation of
the Project.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall
take and cause to be taken all action which shall be necessary on
its part to enable the Provinces to perform all their obligations
under the Provinces Project Agreements and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Provinces in carrying
out those parts of the Project for which the Provinces are respon-
sible, the Borrower shall make available to the Provinces, the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to them under Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, under procedures, and terms and conditions,
mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower and the Pro-
vinces in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ
or cause to be employed, consultants/specialists whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Contracts for the services of all
such consultants/specialists shall have been concluded by
December 31, 1980.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-5-
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to
be furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and con-
struction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to.visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that appointments of
qualified staff required for implementation of Part A of the
Project shall be carried out in accordance with a program and
timetable mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associ-
ation.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the
Project in accordance with a training program, staffing schedule
and timetable mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
(a) carry out Part E of the Project in accordance with a
program and timetable mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association for its review, by June 30,
1981, a report on baseline measurements of enrollment, attendance
and achievement existing at or about March 31, 1981;
(c) for three consecutive years by June 30 of each year
starting June 30, 1982, furnish to the Association for its review,
detailed annual reports on Project implementation; and
(d) furnish to the Association for its review, by June 30,
1983, a draft comprehensive proposal for the expansion and
improvement of primary education in Pakistan.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall for this Project, establish
and maintain a Federal Project Unit in accordance with responsi-
bilities, functions, staff and resources, as outlined in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall carry out Part D of the
Project in accordance with a plan, including allocation of the
facilities by Province and by sex, mutually satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with


﻿- 7 -
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower and the Provinces
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, or cause to be retained,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure and
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine such records.
(c) The Borrower: (i) shall establish, or cause to be
established, separate accounts for the purposes of the Project;
(ii) cause such accounts for each fiscal year to be audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(iii) shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Association
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the said
accounts for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in Section
4.01 (b) of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of certifi-
cates of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they
were provided; and (iv) shall furnish, or cause to be furnished,
to the Association such other information concerning such accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the departments
and agencies referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, in
respect to activities related to the Project, to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.


﻿- 8 -
Section 4.03. The Borrower and the Association shall exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance
of the obligations of the Provinces under the Provinces Project
Agreements and shall promptly inform each other of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the per-
formance of the said obligations by the Provinces.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any Province shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or other obligation of such Province under the respec-
tive Province Project Agreement; and
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that one or more of the Provinces shall
be able to perform its obligations under the respective Province
Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions: (a) the execution and delivery of each of the
Provinces Project Agreements on behalf of the respective Province
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action; and (b) contracts shall have been con-
cluded for consultants services to provide technical assistance
for training and baseline studies to be completed before March 31,
1981.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that each of the Provinces
Project Agreements has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the respective Province,
and is legally binding upon such Province in accordance with
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date July 18, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:               Telex:
ECONOMIC                     ECDIV - 05 - 634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By Is/ Nisar Ali Shah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Michael H. Wiehen
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                1,700,000         25% of local
expenditures
(2) Furniture                    100,000         25% of local
expenditures
(3) Equipment, vehicles        1,400,000         100% of for-
and books                                   eign expendi-
tures and
80% of local
expenditures
(4) Consultants' services      1,600,000         100%
(5) Training                   1,900,000         100%
(6) Salaries and               2,800,000         100% of local
allowances                                  expenditures
under Part A
of the Project
(7) Unallocated                  500,000
TOTAL          10,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and


﻿- 12 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $100,000 may be made in respect of Categories (4) and (5) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after January 31, 1979.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the Borrower's program to improve
primary education and consists of the following Parts:
A.   Staffing
Strengthening of the teacher service by the introduction
of about 340 Assistant Teachers (of whom approximately
one-half shall be female), about 50 Supervisors (of whom
approximately one-third shall be female) and about 470
Learning Coordinators (of whom approximately one-third shall
be female).
B.   Training
Training of about 11,000 teachers and other staff related
to the Project through the engagement of staff and facilities
of appropriate local agencies.
C.   Equipment and Materials
1.   Provision of books and other instructional materials,
and equipment for about 4,100 schools, 10 in-service
training centers and the Project Units.
2.   Provision of vehicles for Supervisors, Learning Coordi-
nators and Project Units staff.
D.   Facilities and Furniture
1.   Construction of about 1,000 classrooms, residences for
about 675 female teachers and 10 in-service training
centers (of which approximately one-half shall be for
women).
2.   Provision of furniture for about 700 classrooms
and 10 in-service training centers.
E.   Experimentation and Evaluation
Through the engagement of staff and facilities of appropriate
local agencies:


﻿- 14 -
1.   Design the methodology and conduct research to monitor
and evaluate the Project.
2.   Development of experiments to determine the effects of
the Project on the education system.
3.   Development of institutional capability in educational
research.
F.   Consultants Services
About 12 man-years of consultants' services for the implemen-
tation of the Project.
G.   Future Projects Preparation
The preparation of future education and training projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For bidding purposes, equipment and vehicles shall be
grouped to the extent practicable in contracts with estimated
values exceeding the equivalent of $50,000 each, in such a
manner as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, so as to permit bulk procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (Pakistan port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manufac-
tured goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on
imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically
supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to
the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation
shall be included.


﻿- 16 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Pakistan equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Pakistan.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this compar-
ison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which *a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 17 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
groap C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works and furniture manufacture under the Project
may be carried out either (a) by force account, or (b) under
contracts awarded under the Borrower's competitive bidding pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Equipment and vehicles that cannot be grouped in accordance
with the provisions of Part A.3 hereinabove, may be awarded
in accordance with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures,
following domestic advertising, acceptable to the Association.
3.   Books may be procured in accordance with the Borrower's
book procurement procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.   Contracts for certain miscellaneous equipment and vehicles
with values not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 for each
contract, may be purchased through normal commercial channels
after solicitation of at least three price quotations, provided
that the aggregate expenditure for items so purchased shall
not exceed the equivalent of $250,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to any equipment and vehicle items estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more in aggregate:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall


﻿- 18 -
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalu-
ation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copios of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Federal Project Unit
1.   The Federal Project Unit shall be responsible for the imple-
mentation of the parts of the Project to be carried out by the
Borrower and the proper coordination among the staff of Provinces
appointed or designated to assist in the implementation of the
Project. Its functions shall include, inter alia, the following:
(a) coordination of the Provincial Project Unit activities;
(b) assistance to the Provinces in designing, implementing
and evaluating training, research and experiments;
(c) recruitment of specialists and administration of tech-
nical assistance agreements;
(d) intensive public relations program aimed at dissem-
inating project accomplishments outside and within the
Project;
(e) supply of expertise to the Provinces in experimental low
cost school construction;
(f) procurement under international competitive bidding
procedures and coordination of local procurement;
(g) provision of timely and adequate flow of local Project
funds to the Provinces;
(h) communications between the Association and the Provin-
cial Project Units; and
(i) submission of disbursements applications and periodic
reporting to the Association.
2.   The Federal Project Unit shall have at least the following
suitably qualified full-time staff:
(a) Chief Project Director;
(b) three Deputy Directors (Training, Research and Opera-
tions);
(c) Director of Works;


﻿- 20 -
(d) Information Officer;
(e) Accountant; and
(f)  four Research Officers in Training, Evaluation, Experi-
mentation and Information.


