Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22469
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36500; TF-22154)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$21.0 MILLION
TO
UZBEKISTAN
FOR AN
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
06/21/2001
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 5, 2001)
Currency Unit = Cym
Cym793 =  US$ 1
US$ 1 = Cym 793
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBU           Central Bank of Uzbekistan
CEM           Country Economic Memorandum
CSPMP         Committee on State Property Management and
Privatization
EC            European Commission
FBS           Family Budget Survey
FSU           Former Soviet Union
GOU           Government of Uzbekistan
IA           Implementing Agency
IBTA          Institution Building Technical Assistance
MOMS          Ministry of Macroeconomics and Statistics
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOL           Ministry of Labor
PHRD          Policy and Human Resource Development
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
SFSC          State Forecasting and Statistics Committee
SOE           State-Owned Enterprise
SSPR          Social and Strctural Policy Review
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Kiyoshi Kodera, ECCO8
Sector Manager/Director:    Pradeep Mitra, ECSPE
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Fasliddin Rakhimov, ECCUZ/Pervaiz Rashid,
ECSPE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UZBEKISTAN
Institution Building Technical Assistance Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  10
6. Sustainability                                                                      11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     14
9. Partner Comments                                                                    14
10. Additional Information                                                            21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 35
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                    36
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                 45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P009123                                        Project Name: Institution Building Technical
Assistance Project
Team Leader: Fasliddin Rakhimov                            TL Unit: ECCUZ
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR            Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Institution Building Technical Assistance Project    L/C/TF Number: CPL-36500; TF-22154
Country/Department. UZBEKISTAN                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: BI - Institutional Development
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/02/92                                 Effective:  11/01/93           01/27/94
Appraisal:  05/17/93                                   MTR:
Approval:  10/07/93                                 Closing:  10/31/97            10/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN/PIU under Cabinet of Ministers, Department for
Foreign Economic Activities
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                               Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:      Kiyoshi Kodera                             Russell Cheetham
Sector Manager.       Pradeep Mitra                              Kadir T. Yurukoglu
Team Leader at ICR:   Fasliddin Rakhimov and Pervaiz             Cevdet A. Denizer
Rashid
ICR Primary Author:   Richard J. Carroll
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN-Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The assessments made in this Intensive Learning ICR are the result of a broad-based, consultative
process involving Uzbek counterparts and Bank staff at headquarters and in the field. Input from



beneficiaries was received through a comprehensive survey that covered all aspects of the IBTA loan, in
both qualitative and quantitative forms, through a Stakeholder Workshop, and through numerous bilateral
meetings in which individual stakeholders could provide their assessments of the IBTA. On the Bank side,
extensive individual interviews were carried out with the many people involved in preparation and
implementation of the IBTA. In addition, several drafts of this ICR were circulated for comment amongst
members of the country team and the Government of Uzbekistan. These assessments are incorporated in
the main text where possible and in the additional annexes.
Uzbekistan is one of the largest Former Soviet Union (FSU) Republics with a population of about
25 million. The Institution Building Technical Assistance Project (IBTA) was the first World Bank lending
operation in Uzbekistan and was effective on January 27, 1994. The IBTA was an important operation for
the Bank to learn about the country while assisting in its transition to a more market oriented economy.
The original objectives of the IBTA in the short term were to provide support to the Government of
Uzbekistan (GOU) in formulating and elaborating reforms and in the medium term, to provide support for
institution building and developing domestic capacity to ensure that Uzbekistan has the capability to
implement and sustain reforms. Institution building and technical assistance activities were for: (i)
privatization and public enterprise reforns; (ii) legal and regulatory framework, (iii) financial sector, (iv)
social safety netlemployment; and (v) energy and telecommunications sectors. These objectives were
consistent with the national commitment to move to a market based economy. The specific planned
activities to meet the objectives emerged from the Bank's work in drafting the Country Economic
Memorandum (CEM) for 1993.
IBTA was launched in a very difficult institutional and economic environment. Although the labor
force was highly educated, the legacy of 70 years of a central planning approach left the country with little
institutional capacity to support a private economy. The political situation was fairly stable, but the
macroeconomic and legal framework and financial sector had to undergo major restructuring in order to
accommodate the privatization process and achieve competitiveness and growth of newly privatized
enterprises. Previous to the launch of IBTA, the economy experienced drop of 10 percent in real output,
very high inflation (several hundred percent), rising budget deficits (11 percent of GDP in 1992), and rising
current account debt reaching 17 percent of GDP. These results were not atypical for countries in the
initial phase of separation from the FSU. At the same time, the GOU had begun a wide range of measures
toward transition from central planning to market economy. In 1992 the Committee for State Property and
Privatization (CSPMP) was established and by 1993 almost all of the housing stock had been privatized.
By 1994 most small-scale enterprises (SSEs) had been privatized. GOU was also drafting laws to establish
property rights and private enterprises. Trade policy was also being developed, with many restrictions still
in place. Banking reform was beginning with the Central Bank of Uzbekistan adopting new statutes for its
role in the private economy. In addition, the Government was exploring options for privatization
specifically in agriculture, telecommunications, energy and social sectors.
Assessment:
IBTA addressed the key needs of the country and was consistent with the objectives of the Bank's
country strategy to build capacity to manage the reforms, which was reflected in the project components.
The project's objectives and activities were identified from the knowledge gained through a detailed CEM
exercise and extensive discussions with the counterparts. While the political consensus on economic reform
within the country still needed to be developed, the project objectives were broad, clear and flexible to
respond to Uzbekistan's evolving priorities, though somewhat ambitious.
3.2 Revised Objective:
-2 -



No revisions.
3.3 Original Components:
IBTA had five components: (1) Privatization and Enterprise Reform and (2) Legal and Regulatory
Framework, (3) Financial Sector; (4) Social Safety Net/Employment; and (5) Sector Strategies and
Studies. The rationale and activities for each component and their original allocations were as follows.
Privatization ($2.1 million) and Enterprise Reform ($1.9 million). The CSPMP and Uzgosfond
required improved capacity to carry out Government plans to privatize 16,000 of 30,000 small and medium
scale enterprises (SMEs) and the financial and corporate restructuring expertise needed for enterprise
reform. The European Community (EC) was to provide $1.1 million parallel financing for the privatization
sub-component. The planned activities were aimed at building the necessary capacity and included:
*     Assistance to CSPMP and the Uzgosfond including experts to advise on aspects of privatization
and public enterprise reform issues including partner search, financial management, corporate governance,
and information systems design on a long and short term basis.
*     Equipment to establish a basic financial database on enterprises, to facilitate their monitoring, to
expedite review of the privatization process, and to facilitate communications between regional offices and
the headquarters of the CSPMP and the Uzgosfond.
*      Financing training and study tours and providing short term experts in support of the privatization
program.
Legal and Regulatory Framework ($1.8 million). Legal capacity to resolve major gaps and
inconsistencies in the legal framework for commercial activities and privatization needed strengthening.
The corresponding activities were:
*     Assistance to the Legal Department of the Cabinet of Ministers including a long-term legal expert
to help planning long-term strategy in economic reform and legal infrastructure issues; coordinating all
legal technical assistance relating to economic reform, drafting new laws, decrees, supporting regulations,
including petroleum legislation and environmental regulations and reviewing the impact of laws and
regulations on private sector development and privatization.
Short-term experts to provide specialized expertise in these areas when needed.
*     Training programs including seminars, lectures, fellowships and materials on legal issues
concerning the transition to a market economy.
Financial Sector ($8.8 million). Financial institutions needed to improve allocation efficiency and
gain a clearer idea of the condition of the financial sector and, therefore improve the reliability of
accounting standards. The IBTA was therefore designed to include:
*     Assistance to Central Bank of Uzbekistan (CBU) for the initial phase of development of the
payments system ($5.5 million), including short-term improvements in the form of equipment and
consulting services, and financing of a feasibility study for the development of a new payments system over
the medium term.
*     Establishment of external debt monitoring and debt management departments and providing
training and equipment.
*      Strengthening the banking supervisory function, particularly the off-site supervision capacity of
- 3 -



CBU.
*      Introduction of modem accounting and auditing principles for the commercial banks and undertake
diagnostic studies on the current financial status of the state banks.
*      Training for CBU staff.
Social Safety NettEmployment ($5.5 million). The State Forecasting and Statistics Committee
(SFSC) needed to improve their ability to monitor and evaluate social benefit provision, which accounted
for over one-third of GDP. In addition, rising unemployment claims could not be processed without
automation. The EC was to jointly prepare and provide $1.5 million additional parallel financing for
advisory services to the Ministry of Labor. IBTA was designed to fund the following activities:
*     Technical assistance to the SFSC to redesign the existing family budget survey to make it a reliable
basis for developing policy on income support and poverty alleviation and to redefine the poverty line, and
provide training to key staff of SFSC.
*      Enhancing the capacity of the employment service by training and by a major step toward full
automation.
Sector Strategies and Studies ($2.6 million). Although sectoral ministries have qualified staff,
they need specific training in cost-benefit analysis and technical assistance in designing and implementing
sector strategies. The Government of Japan provided $1.0 million additional cofinancing for this
component.
*     Assistance provided to two priority sectors selected by the Government, energy and
telecommunications. For the energy sector, advisors will be provided to Uzbekneftgas, the national
petroleum entity, for petroleum acreage tendering negotiations.
*     Advisors provided to the Telecommunications Ministry to strengthen policy making capacity and to
review and revise the sectoral rehabilitation plan.
The remainder of the loan was mainly contingencies ($2.0 million) and project coordination
(US$0.3 million), for a total loan of US$2 1.0 million (see 5.4 for further discussion of costs). The
components matched the priority constraints in achieving the main project objectives. Issues of
implementing this complex project are taken up in sections 4 and 5. The Uzgosfond and the State
Privatization Committee merged in 1995 to form the State Property Committee (GKI in Uzbek).
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no revisions, nor was there a major restructuring of the project. However, there was
some reallocation of funds during project implementation to accommodate evolving needs. The financial
component allocation increased by $0.3 million and the other category included 2.1 million for the Ministry
of Macroeconomics and Statistics.
Component                                     Planned              Actual
Privatization and Enterprise Reform                2.8                2.7
Legal                                               1.8                1.6
Financial                                           8.7                9.0
Social                                              3.9                3.8
Sector Studies                                      1.5                1.3
Other (Incl. Project Management)                    2.3                2.5
Total                                             21.0               20.9
-4 -



Assessment:
IBTA was launched in a very challenging environment as the political consensus on reforms within
the country needed to be developed. It was also a demanding project for the country to implement since it
was Uzbekistan's first experience with a Bank financed project. The project activities identified were
consistent with country needs and priorities. The project was however complex and ambitious in view of the
scope and the number of ministries and agencies (ten for the various components) in addition to several
levels of beneficiaries involved under a component. Implementation required coordination across these many
government department and agencies, and good task management. The lack of adequate implementation
capacity and full awareness of Bank policies also contributed to slow implementation.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated satisfactory by the ICR. The objectives were consistent with
Government priorities and, for the most part, proven feasible, despite the fact that the policy climate
became less reform minded. Counterparts were involved in all phases of project preparation and the design
was responsive to national priorities. In addition, the knowledge gained from the CEM exercise helped
identify activities of the IBTA, which is consistent with best practices. This approach was particularly
important because the Bank had a small knowledge base and no project experience in Uzbekistan. The
satisfactory rating is in accord with the stakeholder survey results. The project was ambitious, especially
in the context of working in a new country undergoing a profound transformation. The project design did
not provide for a fully staffed, dedicated project implementation unit (PIU). Rather, components were
implemented autonomously by individual implementing agencies (LAs) under the general direction of a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Cabinet of Ministers. This PIU consisted of a head with several
assistants, but who had responsibilities for other projects as well. The rationale for this approach was that
capacity could be built faster among a wider range of government agencies if they were not heavily
dependent on a self-standing PIU (see section 7). This approach was ahead of its time because it is now in
line with the current Bank policy regarding PlUs. The IBTA did not have a clear set of monitorable
indicators. However, the appraisal did lay out specific actions and expected results (which are examnined in
Annex 1).
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall rating for IBTA in terms of achievement of objectives is satisfactory, which agrees
with the results of the stakeholder survey. In reviewing the achievements of objectives, it is important to
distinguish between the success in implementing the specific activities of the IBTA and the success of the
reform program that it was intended to support. Although the development impact was modest in places
and the associated reform process slow, Uzbekistan achieved a broad range of objectives important to the
transition to a market economy as is detailed in the next section.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The review of activities, objectives and achievements here corresponds to the planned component
activities of section 3.3 and the summary of objectives, achievements and impacts in Annex Table 1.
Privatization and Enterprise Reform
-5 -



The plan at appraisal for the IBTA to support the Government privatization and enterprise reform
program was carried out with some changes. For example, a number of separate consultancies to support
GOU privatization efforts envisioned at appraisal were consolidated into one umbrella contract. The
activities were either fully implemented or partially implemented with grant funding from USAID
substituting for the remainder of the activities. The elaboration of the GOU privatization plan, for instance,
was also supported by USAID grants. Computer and office equipment funded by IBTA helped the GKI
monitor and implement the privatization program and link central to regional offices. IBTA supported GKI
promotion of foreign investment through production of investment brochures and launching a website:
www.government.gov.spc/. Software provided to the Depository of Shares (formerly Uzgosfond) was
essential to a functioning secondary equity market and stock exchange.
The IBTA helped set up the GOU's Privatization Investment Fund (PIF) program. In this program
the Government divests shares in medium and large-scale enterprises including the sale of shares to the
public and PIF shareholder thresholds. Over 300 enterprises have been sold to PIFs. LSE privatization is
still in its early stages. The IBTA has supported the Government in its case-by-case approach in the
privatization of LSEs. This approach follows market methods of valuation that includes financial
assessments consistent with generally agreed accounting principles (GAAP). GOU developed several lists
of enterprises planned for privatization (Resolution No. 477 of the Cabinet of Ministers, November 18,
1998, "On Measures to Promote the Participation of Foreign Capital in Privatization of State Property").
Key LSEs identified for majority foreign ownership include Uzbek Telecom, Andijan Cable, Almalyk
Mining, and Uzbekneftgas. National Bank of Uzbekistan (NBU) is listed for partial foreign ownership.
The IBTA funded the identification of 40 medium-scale and large-scale enterprises (MSEs and LSEs) as
candidates for privatization. Only two of the 40 companies were sold to foreign investors. The main
reason may stem from the disadvantageous macro-framework with the multiple exchange rate regime. The
Enterprise Institution Building Loan (EIBL) is following up with further efforts to privatize two companies
on this list (Uzbek Telecom and Ahangaran Cement). These companies are targeted for privatization by
the end of 2001. The most recent list of MSEs and LSEs for case-by-case privatization was published as
an annex to Resolution 119 in March 2001.
The assessment of impact of IBTA on privatization and privatization itself is problematic. As the
Social and Structural Policy Review (SSPR) for Uzbekistan pointed out in August 1999, data on actual
privatizations are scarce. However, it is known that all state-owned small-scale enterprises (SSEs) were
privatized by 1995 through transfer of ownership to workers and managers, thus meeting the SSE
privatization target, but had little to do with the IBTA. Housing units were largely privatized by 1993
(entirely before IBTA). The quality or impact of privatization is very difficult to estimate because there is
virtually no data on before and after privatization performance of enterprises. Institution building through
the PIF, provision of computers to establish the computer network and drafting laws and regulations rather
than the attainment of privatization targets are the essence of this component's achievements. Still, because
there have been no large scale privatizations, the true test of capacity building has not yet happened. Thus,
although the component activities of IBTA specifically were largely carried out, the impact has been
modest and warrants a marginally satisfactory rating.
Legal and Regulatory Framework
TA activities to draft laws and regulations supporting the development of the private sector, along
with training programs and equipment provision for the judiciary and lawyers, and support to the
development of legal framework and infrastructure were completed. The legal framework for private sector
development was upgraded through new laws such as the Law on Joint Stock Companies and Shareholder
Protection, the Law on Securities and the Stock Exchange, the Civil Code, the Law on Competition and
- 6 -



Restraint on Monopolistic Behavior and the Bankruptcy Law. Other important decrees and resolutions
include Resolution No. 220 of the Cabinet of Ministers (June 18, 1996, entitled "On Measures for
Organization of the Activities of Investment Funds"), Resolution No. 410 (September 25, 1998, "Measures
to Perfect the Activities of Investment Funds and Privatization Investment Funds") and the Resolutions 477
and 119 (related to foreign investment).
It should be pointed out that most of these activities were not carried out under IBTA, but rather
USAID grant financing. The fact that GOU secured substitute grant funds does not count against the
rating for this component. What is important is that, as USAID reported, the impact of legislation to
support foreign investment was severely weakened by GOU's deletion of key provisions citing
inconsistencies with the Uzbek Constitution.
Initially, a contract was signed with an international law firm to cover all planned areas of this
component. After the first contract phase, the GOU decided to exercise its option to terminate the contract.
This action freed $600,000 which the Bank agreed to reallocate to computer and office equipment
($200,000) and vehicles ($400,000) to support the activities of the MOJ. Training programs including
overseas study and English training for judges were carried out.
Key petroleum legislation was also drafted, but has not yet been enacted. This legislation would
accommodate participation of foreign investors and specifically acreage tendering which was also
supported by the sector studies component (see Sector Studies below). Issues over foreign ownership of
natural resources are still hindering passage of significant legislation. Thus, while a number of activities
envisioned under the project were carried out through either the IBTA or other donor funds, the impact has
been modest and this component is therefore rated marginally satisfactory.
Financial Sector
All major activities including the implementation of a Central Bank payments system,
establishment of accounting and audit practices at commercial banks consistent with IAAS, diagnostic
studies of state banks, and activities in bank supervision and external debt management were carried out.
This component is rated satisfactory.
The establishment of the payments system was the most significant accomplishment of this
component and perhaps the entire IBTA. IBTA financed not only hardware and software, but achieved a
working system. The payments system installed with IBTA financing far exceeded the appraisal plan as
even district level branches (approximately 900 offices) were connected to the CBU payments system. It
was originally envisioned that IBTA would connect only the regional level (13 offices). This more
comprehensive payments system has substantially reduced interbank clearing and settlement times and is
processing 58,300 transactions per day (average for the year 2000), representing a saving of millions of
days of transactions time, and a doubling of daily transactions only two years before. Transactions that
would take days and even weeks to clear, are now handled in minutes. Other efficiency improvements
include the reduced costs of floating money and payments uncertainties. The good system performance
also attests to the success in training people in the new systems at central, regional and district levels.
Monetary payments can be made in a timely fashion and banks can better manage their liquidity.
Considerable private local capacity was built in implementing this component through the successful use of
a Uzbek consulting firm in installing the system.
Although the system represents a great stride forward in efficiency, it can be further developed by
the incorporation of debit orders (for utility bills, tax payments, etc.), risk management and enhancements
- 7 -



to accommodate effective centralized liquidity management (presently, every bank must leave funds in the
branches' corresponding accounts with no overdrafts allowed) to allow for a consolidated account. To
remedy these limitations, CBU plans to implement a centralized Real Time Settlement System in
compliance with intemational rules of risk and liquidity management. A Financial Institution Building
Loan (FIBL) is pursuing these system improvements.
Financial institutions have also been strengthened with the establishment of an extemal debt unit at
the MOF. Previously there was no portfolio analysis, risk control or centralized monitoring. A specialized
debt management database (DMFAS) was implemented. A new chart of accounts has been introduced and
accounting and auditing systems are in place and in the process of becoming fully operational. Over half of
commercial banks have already been audited according to IAAS. The diagnostic studies were carried out
for three large banks (Uzzilsber Bank, Uzpromstroi Bank, and Pakhta Bank), but might have been
premature as restructuring measures have been delayed.
Social Safety Net and Employment Policy and Services
This component is rated satisfactory. The automated nationwide employment registry and services
system was successfully installed. As a result, job seekers can register with the system and access
placement services. The automated register allows the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MOLSP,
merged in February 2001) to calculate allowances more accurately. Computerization has made possible a
20 percent reduction in employment services staff. The MOLSP reported that job seekers can be placed in
new jobs, on average, within two months of registering, which is well below the 6-month period allowed to
collect unemployment compensation. On average 40,000 people register monthly and seven out of ten are
placed This employment service of the MOL has the advantage that, by law, employers who announce
vacancies must accept the job candidates provided through the employment services system. The
subcomponent dealing with the development of employment policy was financed by EC-TACIS along with
other technical assistance. Citing staff changes, neither the EC-TACIS office in Tashkent nor Brussels
could provide an assessment of the work done other than that the funds were fully dispersed. Records show
that 125 staff were trained on issues relating to employment policy, employment services, and labor market
development. However the MOL commented at the conclusion of the TACIS exercise that the TACIS
experts tended to be theoretical in their approach which limited their contribution to efforts to establish
employment services. Moreover, in discussions with current staff at MOLSP, it appeared that the TACIS
funded exercise did not have any substantive impact in reforming employment policy.
The Family Budget Survey (FBS) was finally implemented after a prolonged delay, which
necessitated the third of the project's three extensions. The FBS was a significant accomplishment because
previously there was little information on poverty or labor market conditions that the international
community believed was reliable. The IBTA financed the production of primary and secondary data sets.
These data sets are expected to provide a number of benefits. FBS would establish the basis for poverty
profiles including regional and demographic dimensions. The FBS also may give a first hand look at the
labor market and would provide a basis to assess poverty and develop a poverty reduction strategy.
Because the FBS was implemented only at the very end of IBTA, activities envisioned at appraisal such as
the redefining of the poverty line and an overall poverty assessment have not yet been carried out. The
training to monitor family expenditures has resulted in the capability of MOMS, the implementing agency
(IA), to independently carry out the ongoing FBS.
Sector Strategies and Studies
This component is rated satisfactory.
- 8 -



Telecommunications
The main impact of IBTA was to support the creation of regulatory and legal documents to effect
the transition to the private sector and to create conditions to attract foreign investment and liberalize the
sector. Consultants carried out two important studies and provided advisory services to the Ministry. The
studies were Strategy for Telecom Development (1996), which included network modernization and
organizational development, and the Recommendations of the Advisor to the Minister (1999), which
included justification for privatization, and the separation of the regulatory and supervisory functions. The
first study was very important to liberalizing tariffs, building acceptance of foreign investment in telecom,
and in analyzing the technical conditions and market structure. The second study was implemented as the
Ministry of Telecommunications was divided into the Agency for Telecommunications and Post, a
regulatory body, and Uzbek Telecom, the operational part of telecom, thus separating the two functions.
The telecomnmunications sector was also the first in Uzbekistan to engage in licensing of services. Uzbek
Telecom is currently in the process of privatization (supported under EIBL) and is seeking majority foreign
ownership.
Energy
IBTA also provided TA for acreage tendering Uzbekneftgas especially for attracting private
capital. Gas fields have been tendered and investment blocks created to attract foreign investors. The
study was effective in locating private foreign partners and strengthening market knowledge and negotiating
skills at Uzbekneftgas. Foreign investment in the sector still faces legal barriers of foreign ownership of
natural resources. The Government indicated that, subsequently, $200 million of production sharing
agreements were signed to explore and develop oil and gas deposits.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of IBTA was achieved through the provision of consultants,
training and equipment, which strengthened the lAs and supported the transition to a more private sector
oriented economy. There was a major adjustment in the mix of consultants and equipment with the
reallocation of over $6 million to the equipment category, $3.35 million from consultant services, $2
million from the unallocated category, and $0.7 million from the refunding (Project Preparation Facility)
category. This reallocation gave additional support to the establishment of four major computer networks
for four agencies: GKI, CBU, MOL and MOMS. At district, regional and central levels capacity was
built by the installation and use of these systems. The CBU benefits of accelerated transactions are being
fully realized. GKI has also largely realized the benefits of monitoring the progress of privatization. The
MOL is actively placing job seekers. FBS information under MOMS has not been utilized but is expected
to provide the basis for poverty policy. The implementation of the FBS was not only an exercise to acquire
data on the country, but also was a capacity building exercise in which the whole process of gathering data
-9-



and building a database for use in policy formulation was learned. The increase in local consulting
capacity has been significant as demonstrated by the successful use and increasing responsibility of an
Uzbek consulting firm. The effectiveness of the associated training is reflected in MOMS' ability to
continue the survey exercise independently. The database is expected to have an impact if the GOU
follows through on defining a poverty line and a poverty alleviation policy, and if the data is shared with
the international community.
IBTA also built GKI capacity by providing equipment and software for the National Depository
which now supports the secondary securities market in Uzbekistan. The Republican Stock Exchange was
also strengthened through computer equipment to handle buying and selling. The capacity to manage
external debt was significantly strengthened, albeit from  a rudimentary starting point.  However,
weaknesses remain in debt analysis and policy formulation which contributed to a high accumulation of
debt during 1998-99, and the agenda to improve debt management, including the overhaul of the top-down
decision making and lack of transparency, remains substantial. The policy-making capability of the
Agency for Telecomnunications and Post was also strengthened through advice and equipment which
helped develop a rehabilitation program for the sector and prepare Uzbek Telecom for privatization
scheduled before the end of 2001.
In general, Uzbekistan's ability to utilize TA funds has advanced since the beginning of the start of
IBTA. GOU is more able to match TA to its specific preferences, and has developed the capability to
present bankable projects that exceed the availability of funds.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During supervision missions IBTA was rated satisfactory in most aspects throughout the project
life (Annex 8). Again, these ratings are consistent with stakeholder feedback (see Annex 9). The
evaluation of implementation performance of IBTA must be seen in the context of normal delays for all
Bank-funded projects in Uzbekistan. Most importantly, IBTA was the first project in Uzbekistan, with the
Bank having to learn local conditions and constraints and the Government having to learn Bank procedures
for the first time. The PIU was also supported by a procurement specialist from the resident Bank mission
which eased this problem. Although the project had three extensions, it was 99 percent disbursed. The
final extension was granted to carry out the FBS, which was a critical exercise in developing a database for
labor market and poverty analysis.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
IBTA management was anchored in the Cabinet of Ministers in a small PIU in the Office of
International Coordination which had responsibility for a number of other projects at the same timne.
Because the IBTA did not have a fully staffed, dedicated PIU, implementation was difficult at times,
especially given that the IBTA was a complex project as well as the first operation in the country.
However, IBTA did fully disburse and IA institutional development benefited in the long-run from having
to independently carry out project management functions.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.
Although generally successful activities were carried out, the policy environment hampered the
impact. In particular, exchange controls and some degree of re-nationalization diminished the benefits
- 10 -



expected from privatization. On the implementation side, the Govermment (MOMS) was slow to implement
the household budget survey. The delay resulted from the Government's reluctance to use loan funds for
TA activities such as the FBS, preferring instead to use grant funds if they could be raised. Ultimately, the
survey was carried out and is ongoing.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project costs estimate at appraisal were US$25 million. The IBRD loan amount was
US$21 million of which US$20.9 million, or 99 percent, was disbursed. The loan was made on standard
IBRD terms with a term of 20 years and five years grace. The remaining financing planned at appraisal
was as follows: GOU-US$0.4 million, European Commission-US$2.6 million, and Japan-US$1.0 million.
The funds from Japan were used for the sector studies which were carried out.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as likely. Institutional development is sustainable in the financial sector as
the payments system is now part of regular operations. LAAS is in place at commercial banks. The
automation of management in privatization is sustainable (beyond result in lasting changes in energy and
telecom sector restructuring and foreign participation in the sectors. For the FBS, the capacity to carry out
expenditure surveys has been developed and the exercise is part of ongoing operations in the regions.
Sustainability will result in lasting changes in energy and telecom sector restructuring and foreign
participation in the sectors. For the FBS, the capacity to carry out expenditure surveys has been developed
and the exercise is part of ongoing operations in the regions. Sustainability will be enhanced if the data is
released to the research community, including think tanks, universities, donors and local NGOs.
Sustainability is somewhat at risk because there is no fornal plan to replace and upgrade the large
amount of hardware financed under IBTA. Sustainability is also compromised by the lack of follow-up
reform operations that the Bank envisioned at the time of appraisal of IBTA. In terms of hardware
replacement, Uzbekistan may be in a better position than most FSU countries because of foreign exchange
advantages due to gold production, and energy and grain self-sufficiency. Thus, purchasing replacement
computers may be within Government means if it is assigned priority.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Ongoing projects that carry out further work initiated under the IBTA include the Enterprise
Institution Building Loan (EIBL, effective September 1998 with a closing date of December 2003) and the
Financial Institution Building Loan (FIBL, effective August 1999 with a closing date of June 2004). The
EIBL follows up in a number of areas initiated under the IBTA, especially at GKI. The goals of the EIBL
are to improve the efficiency of already privatized enterprises and support the implernentation of
case-by-case privatization to enhance enterprise efficiency and attract foreign capital and know-how,
expand public participation in capital markets and strengthen govenunent institutional capacity to facilitate
reform. EIBL is also financing a contract to prepare and privatize Uzbek Telecom, another follow-up from
IBTA. IBTA supported the FIBL by financing a feasibility study and the EIBL by financing office
equipment for the PIU.
The FIBL follows up in the IBTA initiated areas in the financial sector. The FIBL's goals are to
- 11 -



improve corporate governance and management capacity of commercial banks in preparation for
privatization in the medium term, increase competition and efficiency in the banking system and improve
prudential regulations and supervision capacity of the CBU along with the reporting capacity of
commercial banks. A Government Financial Management Reform Project is also planned that would cover
budget planning and execution, fiscal management, payments systems, monitoring systems, debt
management, tax administration, customs administration and other activities. These activities would help
sustain the impact of IBTA, especially in the areas of government interface with the private sector and the
social safety net. Other donors such as the Technical Assistance for the Confederation of Independent
States (TACIS) Programme, funded by the European Union that provides substantial support (between $15
and 30 million annually) in the form of grant TA will also contribute to sustaining institutional development
in the broad areas that were covered by the IBTA. Areas where there is little or no follow-up are at the
MOL employment services and policy, and poverty alleviation.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Bank performance was satisfactory. The project design was ambitious given the broad scope, the
lack of country knowledge at the Bank (as the first loan to the country), the mixed record of TA projects,
and the weak economic conditions. These factors at times overloaded both the Bank and the Borrower
implementation capacity. In addition, the project life was too short (four years) as it underestimated the
time needed to effect knowledge transfer in a complex, multi-sector project. The three one-year extensions
reflect this underestimate. The Bank did make the right choice, however, in not specifying too many
activities, but leaving the components designed in a general way. Over-specifying might have necessitated
additional amendments to the loan agreement. The operation did fulfill most objectives and was
appropriately designed for a reform-minded Government, which appeared to be the case at the launch of the
IBTA.
7.2 Supervision:
A weakness during supervision was caused by the many changes in task managers (three) and
program team leaders (four), a position which was created in 1997. The result was often a lack of
continuity and of clear assignment of responsibility and follow-up from headquarters. There was also little
effective transition between management changes.
In February 1997, task management was officially transferred to the Resident Mission. The task
manager at the Resident Mission could have used substantially greater support from headquarters in terms
of consistent coaching as opposed to ad hoc responses from a wide variety of people. As a result of the
lack of cohesive management on the Bank side from headquarters, the benefits of completed tasks did not
circulate to other members of the Bank team as effectively as they could have. The recommendations from
the petroleum sector study and the telecom studies, for example, did not circulate well among the relevant
sector staff and did not feed back into the policy dialog to the extent that they should have.
Management decision-making occasionally lapsed because of frequent changing of task managers.
For example, for a period there was confusion over who should sign off on no-objection letters. It was also
difficult to keep abreast of the history of the project, thus requiring staff to re-learn local constraints and
implementation quirks (such as in procurement difficulties). One result was that the IBTA had exceeded its
limit of local shopping procurement. A 1997 assessment at supervision by QAG rated the IBTA
marginally satisfactory, which was a time when implementation was slow and dialogue with the country
- 12 -



more strained. The assessment cited only marginally satisfactory Bank focus on development impact.
However, it did acknowledge the difficult implementation culture in Uzbekistan, especially regarding
procurement.  Bank staff continuity was rated marginally satisfactory, while supervision was rated
satisfactory.
The Bank's management of the project improved significantly late in the project as the Resident
Mission and headquarters in 1998 began taking a more proactive stance in implementation and completion
of the project. The exceeding of the international shopping limit was rectified by shifting later
procurements to non-local shopping (ICB, etc.) procurement. Improved management after the beginning of
1998 also included greater attention to development impact, improved dialogue on project related policies
and issue which led to the two successor projects, the FIBL and the EIBL. Bank budget expenditures were
high in preparation/appraisal (US$370,000) and in the first three years (FYI 994-96) of supervision (about
US$500,000), but averaged only about US$50,000 annually for FY1997-FY2001 (US$250,000).
Supervision costs were low in the last five years of the project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. The IBTA design was ambitious, but was largely
fulfilled and had significant development impact. With three extensions granted by the Bank, most major
objectives were achieved and the funds were 99 percent disbursed.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's implementing agencies were deeply involved in the design and preparation of the
project. As mentioned, IBTA did not over specify its activities, but left flexibility within an overall
institution building framework. The project was prepared in a reasonably short period of time and the PIU
within Cabinet of Ministers mobilized to oversee implementation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government, as in a number of other countries, was often reluctant to borrow to pay
intemational consultants, preferring instead to secure grant funds. GOU preferred to use a greater part of
loan funds for equipment. However, all major activities were carried out with the supplemental use of
other donor financing where such funds could be mobilized.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The PIU was under salary from the Government and no one was paid from the project account.
Thus, PIU costs were very low (approximately US$70,000). Actual implementation was carried out by the
individual lAs including the procurement of goods and services and monitoring consultancies. lAs were
committed to the objectives of their components. They sometimes sought alternative (grant) financing for
some of the consultancies, which they sometimes secured but which also caused delays (such as the FBS),
or non-implementation (MOL employment policy TA). The MOJ basically carried out its activities, but
weakened impact of some legal refonns citing inconsistencies with the Constitution.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
- 13 -



Taken as a whole (Government and IA), Borrower performance was satisfactory. The Borrower
maintained continuity of project management at the Cabinet of Ministers as the same person was in charge
for all but the very early stage of the IBTA. Most objectives were carried out and the loan was fully
disbursed. In addition, the Borrower has begun implementation of two key follow-up loans, the EIBL and
the FIBL.
8. Lessons Learned
*     TA projects, especially in FSU countries, need ample time for implementation. TA projects
that are in a country that is new to the Bank and have many components take at least 5 or 6 years for an
effective skills transfer. The IBTA time frame clearly did not allow for the challenging situation, delays in
implementation, and complexity. This underestimate was underscored by the three extensions required for
implementation.
*      Holding out for grant financing can cause major delays in implementation. The Government
was very slow in implementing FBS. Not until the second extension of the IBTA did FBS implementation
begin, and only after it was clear that alternative grant funding was not forthcoming. The cost of not
carrying out the FBS would have been substantial because there would not be data to establish a
meaningful profile of the Uzbekistan economy.
*      Impact of TA can be diminished when it is not linked to a successful reform program. IBTA
was, in retrospect, largely a stand alone TA project. It was only weakly linked to the subsequent
Rehabilitation Loan. The Rehabilitation Loan itself was only a quick disbursing operation and without
follow-up structural operations. The impact of IBTA was also less visible because it was not closely
linked to a policy operation and it achieved little leverage in the reform program.
*      It is important at the design stage to consider the sustainability of project activities beyond
project life, especially for projects financing large amounts of equipment. IBTA really did not
incorporate measures to enhance sustainability of equipment supply and maintenance. Although there was
the expectation of follow-up projects as a way to continue the activities, there was no strategic approach to
lessen the dependency for further procurement support.
X      A PW whose role is limited to general management and oversight limits bureaucratic layers,
is cost efficient, and allows [As greater opportunity to develop project management skills. The PrU
for the IBTA occupied a high authority, the Cabinet of Ministers. This high authority dictated the progress
of the project components, while leaving operational responsibilities to the lAs so that they could directly
acquire skills in procurement and budgeting as they managed their own components.
*     Lawyers who draft laws have to know local language and be familiar with local circumstances
IBTA legal TA would have been more effective had local specialists been more extensively used. There
was too much reliance on translators and not enough time spent in country to become acquainted with local
conditions. As a result, the GOU was not satisfied with some of the legal TA such as petroleum legislation.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
- 14 -



FINAL REPORT
on the completion of the project implementation of
Institution Building/Technical Assistance Project
IBRD Loan No. 3650-UZ
Introduction
1.    The IB/TA Loan in the amount of 21 million US$ was granted by the World Bank to
support the efforts of the Government of Uzbekistan aimed to assistance in forming market
infrastructure in Uzbekistan, rendering consulting services and staff training in privatization,
strengthening the legislative base of economic reforms, forming the financial system, conducting
research works in principal industries of economy, computer and informational supplying the
ministries and institutions which are the beneficiary of the institutional loan.
2.    The IB/TA Loan was the first lending operation of the World Bank in Uzbekistan. The
Loan Agreement was approved by the Board on October 22, 1993 and became effective on
January 27, 1994. The original closing date, October 31, 1997 was extended three times and
finally closed on February 28, 2001. In accordance with the Resolution No.37 of Cabinet of
Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan in January 26, 1994 the Loan assets were distributed to
following ministries and agencies: the State Property Committee (GKI), the Ministry of Justice,
the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank, Uzbekneftegas, the Ministry of Labor, the Ministry of
Macroeconomics and Statistics, the Telecommunication Agency and Project Implementation Unit
under the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
3.    The proposed IB/TA Loan was aimed to finance Institution Building/Technical Assistance
activities for:
Privatization and Enterprise Reform;
Legal and Regulatory Framework;
Financial Sector;
Social Safety Net;
Sector Strategies and Studies;
Project Implementation.
Assessment of Outputs and Project Objectives Achieved
1.    Privatization and Enterprise Reform
GKI. Goskomimushestvo was provided with 2,840,000 US$, including acquisition of
1,257,000 US$ computer and office equipment, and 1,583,000 US$ consulting services for the
development of the restructuring and privatization program as well as the development of the
state enterprises reform program and the computer system establishment. Mostly the objectives of
the component have been achieved. The component is assessed as partly satisfactory.
2.    Legal and Regulatory Framework
- 15-



MOJ. The Ministry of Justice received 1,420,000 US$ from the IBTA, including: 490,000
US$ for legal refonns, 440,000 US$ for development of normative base and 490,000 US$ for
development of the special laws. According to the recommendation of the Cabinet of Ministers,
Republic of Uzbekistan and IBRD, in April 1994 the above mentioned funds were redistributed as
follows: 800,000 US$ - remuneration for consulting services, 400,000 US$ - for acquisition of
computer equipment and 220,000 US$ - for training. Assessed as partly satisfactory.
Uzbekneftegaz. Uzbekneftegaz was allocated by 330,000 US$ to be disbursed from
March 1994 to May 1995 for the development of the Legislation on petroleum. However, after
coordination with the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan and IBRD, the allocated
sum was reduced by 30,000 US$ and became 300,000 US$. As the result of tender with five
participated companies, Uzbekneftegaz has concluded the 300,000 US$ contract on development
of the petroleum legislation with "Clifford Chance" company (England). In view of delayed
execution of the contract terms by the above mentioned company, as of 28.02.2001, 200,000 US$
are actually disbursed (as the result of the 2  stage works). The sub-component is assessed as
satisfactory.
3.    Financial Sector
CBRU and MOF. The Central Bank together with the Ministry of Finance allocated
8,650,000 US$ to be disbursed in 1994-1996 (for CBRU 8,529,950 US$ and plus 120,050 US$
for MOF).
Allocation for sub-components includes:
Payment System -5,440,000 US$; Bank Supervision -480,000 US$; Diagnostic Studies
-1,270,000 US$; Accounting and Audit -1,220,000 US$; External Debt Management -240,000
US$.
The aimed objectives achieved fully and assessed as highly satisfactory.
4.    Social Safety Net
MOL. 2,970,000 US$ were allocated to the Ministry of Labor for the employment offices
computerization. As the results of conducted tenders, the preference was given up to the "
Siemens Nixdorf' company out of the eight participated companies. The 3,470,000 US$ contract
was signed with the above mentioned company (the contract was signed on May 28, 1997) of an
allocated sum.
US$500,000 were allocated for the development of employment service policy. Partially,
these means were redistributed for the computer equipment acquisition at the request of the
Ministry of Labor. All the objectives of the sub-component are achieved and rated satisfactory.
Ministry of Macroeconomv and Statistics.   475,000 US$ were allocated to
Minmacroeconomstat for the poverty supervision program and for the survey. As a result of
tender, conducted among four companies, the preference was given up to the USA based
company "Research Triangle Institute" (RTI). The 490,000 US$ contract (excess on 15,000 US$
- 16 -



was agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan and the World Bank) was
concluded with the above mentioned company and Minmacroeconomstat, on rendering consulting
services, delivering computer hardware and software, as well as on training of the experts from
republican state statistics bodies. At some stage a contract dispute arise and finally as the RTI
refused to fulfill their obligations the contract was terminated. After some time, thanks to third
extension of the loan, contracts with an foreign individual consultant and a local firm was
concluded and the work was successfully finalized.
US$2 million were allocated for computerization of the Minmacroeconomstat Main
Computer Center. In December 1996, tenders were conducted among six companies. By results
of tenders the preference was given up to "Hewlett Packard" company (England). 2,070,000
US$ of the contract sum are actually disbursed, including 70,170.51 US$ for training and
1,999,829.49 US$ for purchasing of equipment. The objectives have been achieved. Assessed
highly satisfactory.
5.    Sector Strategies and Studies
Posts and Telecommunications Agencyu 935,000 US$ and 1 million as the Japanese
Government's grant were allocated to the Posts and Telecommunications Agency for the
development of telecommunications systems strategy, communication networks modernization
and organizational restructuring, with terms of disbursement from February 1994 to June 1995.
The total amount was 1,935,000 US$. All the objectives have been achieved and the outcome is
assessed as highly satisfactory.
Uzbekneftegaz. For rendering the advisory assistance to Uzbekneftegaz in an evaluation
of the geological and economic characteristics of tender perspective of oil and gas fields, 580,000
US$ were allocated with terms of disbursement from January 1994 to June 1995. As agreed with
the Cabinet of Ministers and IBRD, the allocated sum is reduced by 280,000 US$, and has made
300,000 US$. As result of tender, conducted among five companies. Uzbekneftegaz has
concluded the 300,000 US$ contract on rendering expert services on evaluation of tender
deposits with "Wood Mackenzie" (Scotland) company. The allocated means are completely
disbursed. 27.10.1994 a contract with the firm "Foster Wheelers" (USA) was signed for
consulting services in the amount of 185,000 US$. Actually disbursed - 95,000 US$, unused
means - 90,000 US$. Activities under this contract resulted in issuing the Evaluation Report for
oil-and gas-potential, and for the perspective sites, offered to licensing on the 1 st International oil
- and gas - tender in Uzbekistan (1993-1994), as well as recommendation for attraction of
International oil-and-gas companies to joint hydrocarbons development in Uzbekistan. The overall
objectives have been achieved and assessed as satisfactory.
6.  Price and Physical Contingencies
Minmacroeconomstat. 2,0 million US$ were allocated for computerization of the
Minmacroeconomstat Main Computer Center. In December 1996, tenders were conducted among six
companies. By results of tenders the preference was given up to "Hewlett Packard" company (England). In
March of the current year IBRD approved tender results. Minmacroeconomstat has begun contract
negotiations on equipment delivery. 2,070,000 US$ of the contract sum are actually disbursed, including
- 17 -



70,170.51 US$ for training and 1,999,829.49 US$ for purchasing equipment.
7.    Project Implementation
DCEEA CM RU 300,000 US$ were allocated to the Department for coordination of
Foreign Economic Activity at the Cabinet of Ministers of Republic of Uzbekistan, from which
60,584 US$ are used in 1994-1995 years on advisory services of the Government's adviser. The
rest of allocated means of 239,416 US$ is delayed to use for creation of an inter-ministerial
computer network ("UzNet"). Out the 400,000 US$ the amount of 399,726 US$ is actually
disbursed for the purchase of equipment and the contract is completed fully. Work of the PIU
was satisfactory. Overall Project implementation is rated as satisfactory.
Meeting Commitments by the Government
IB/TA Loan implementation is satisfactory for all components. The IB/TA Loan got a
slow start with modest implementation pace during the first three years and continuing through
the old regime, except for some low cost, but high impact activities. Most of beneficiary agencies
did not have adequately trained administrative officials to draft terms of reference and letters of
intent, evaluate proposals, negotiate and monitor contracts. The shortage of training was
aggravated by high personnel turnover. These shortcomings translated into a reluctance to move
forward once the individual activities were identified. The PIU did it's best to ensure that the
equipment that was purchased for the components were appropriate to their needs. The
Government did provide offices, visa and other support to cover the local expenses of the
consultants and covered the audit expenses.
However, implementation rate increased and major objectives were achieved and assessed as
satisfactory.
The Role of the Bank
The Bank played a key role in assisting the Government in developing recommendations
on the program of economic reform. The main criterion in developing such recommendations was
the need for more speedy and painful reforms. In other words, the desire to achieve as much as
possible within the shortest time was there in the case of the Republic of Uzbekistan as well. The
government did appreciate that the task management was shifted to the Resident Mission and
that played very much positive role in the project implementation. With three extensions granted
by the Bank, most major objectives were achieved and the funds were fully disbursed.
An especially important area of the Bank's assistance was the following:
*     flexible approach to the solution of project implementation issues and mutual
understanding;
*     three times project extension and as a result full utilization of granted funds;
*     funds reallocation as per Government's request;
*     timely response of the Bank to the proposals and queries of the Government;
*     close cooperation with Bank's Resident Office in Uzbekistan.
- 18-



The Bank demonstrated flexibility with respect to developments and initiatives in
Uzbekistan. Thus, the Bank gave greater priority to the interest of the client than to meeting
disbursement targets.
In summary, the Bank, with the Government of Uzbekistan, created a complex, very
specific project that, despite often weak implementation, had a strong positive development
impact. The Bank coped well with the challenges of a new country in difficult circumstances
undergoing a radical transformation. The Bank became more knowledgeable of Uzbekistan and its
capacities. The Bank's performance is rated satisfactory
Sustainability
The Bank and the Government of Uzbekistan set in motion on ongoing process of
capacity building that supported a successful structural reform program. Sustainability of the
IB/TA Loan initiatives as a whole is promoted because most of the measures are in place, have
effected a substantial reorientation of Uzbekistan institutions, and are mutually reinforcing. In a
project heavy on consulting, the transfer of skills is a key indicator of sustainability. In most
instances, the project management capacity developed quickly, especially the procurement
fimctions.
Sustainability of the results achieved is high in components Social Safety Net, Sector
Strategies and Studies, Financial Sector and lower in the other components. It is remarkable that
the Government of Uzbekistan has begun implementation of two key follow-up Loans, the EIBL
and the FIBL. The EIBL follows up in a number of areas initiated under the IB/TA Loan,
especially at GKI. The FIBL follows up in the IB/TA Loan initiated areas in the financial sector.
Thus the sustainable progress of the privatization and financial sectors is continuing.
Despite the small number of members of the PIU that Department of the Cabinet of
Ministers for Coordination of Foreign Economic Activity, serious delays in implementation due to
changes in government and personnel, overall continued progress in implementing the objectives
of IB/TA Loan was satisfactory. Future planned operations support a continued process of reformn
that will promote and accommodate growing sectors of economy.
Lessons Learned
The Government of Uzbekistan considers that the implementation of IB/TA Loan has been
satisfactorily achieved. In our opinion, the project objectives like strengthening the government
institutions and agencies which have a central role to play in the reform effort, through providing
a broad range of experience and the institutional capacity necessary to design and implement
structural reforms and to manage all economic sectors, were achieved. The most immediate
needs of Uzbekistan, in order to make transition to market economy, were development of the
necessary managerial, institutional and technological capabilities to implement such
transformation. IB/TA Loan was specifically designed to help build these capabilities and this
objective has been achieved.
- 19-



During the implementation of IB/TA Loan there were major factors which affected the
project:
Positive factors
Minimal expenditures in implementation of the project as salaries for PIU staff and
consultants;
Decentralized implementation, obtaining experience of project implementation and World
Bank' procurement procedures;
The beneficiary agencies did implement the project, procured equipment for themselves,
hired consultants etc. using their internal resources and expertise;
PIU was appropriately situated in corresponding Department of Cabinet of Ministers
having proper authority and monitoring capacities. It was important for effective project
coordination and management;
Resident Mission was providing very significant operational and procedural advice and
support to the PIU.
Negative factors
PIU staff was not working full time on the project, which caused certain difficulties during
the project implementation;
There was no full time accountant, special consultant and specialists for providing
corresponding expertise on components and financial reports and etc.
The Government shares the above conclusions expressed in the ICR.
The different agencies financed by IB/TA Loan had significant achievements on the
transition process and the Government shares the findings of the ICR in relation to major
accomplishments in Privatization and Enterprise Reform, Legal and Regulatory Framework,
Financial Sector, Social Safety Net, Sector Strategies and Studies, Project Implementation and the
Agency of Posts and Telecommunications.
The Government states that the numerous extensions of the Project could be avoided if
not so many components and sub-components had been presented in the original design of the
Project. It is very much difficult to coordinate and keep the same pace of the project
implementation in all the components.
In conclusion, IB/TA Loan has made a significant contribution to the process of
transformation to a market economy by strengthening and building the capacity of the beneficiary
- 20 -



institutions which were responsible for carrying out the implementation of the different
components of the Project.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable
10. Additional Information
Supervision Reviews of IBTA-1994-2000
PSR/590 Date  6/29/00 12/28/99 6/30/99 3/22/99 7/6/98 7/8/97 2/14/97 7/5/96 6/24/96 10/26/95 6/1/95 9/30194
Component
Consultant       S        S       S       S      S     S      S      S       U
Services
Goodsl           S        S       S       S      S     S      S      S       S
Training         S        S       S       S      S     U      U      S       U
Proj. Devel.     S        S       S       S      S     S      S      S       S       S       S     NR
Objectives
Implementation    S       S       S       S     S      S      S      S       U       S       S      U
Prog.
Counterpart      S        S       S       S     S      S      S      S       S       1       1       1
Funds
Project         NA       NA      NA       S     S      S      U      S       U       2       2      3
Management
Procurement      S        S       S       S      S     S      S      S       S       2       2      2
Resettlement    NR       NR      NR      NR    NR   NR    NR    NR          NR      NA      NA     NR
Environment     NR       NR      NR      NR    NR   NR    NR    NR          NR      NA      NR     NR
Environmental   NA      NA       NA      NR    NR   NR    NR    NR          NR      NA      NR    NR
Plan
Financial        S        S       S       S    NR   NR    NR    NR          NR      NR      NR    NR
Covenants
Other Legal      S        S       S       S      S     S      S      S       U       I      NR      2
Covenants
WIDN NR   NR   NR   NR  NE  NR  NR   NR   NR   NR   NR   NR
Monitoring &    NR       NR      NR      NR    NR   NR    NR    NR          NR      NR      NR     NR
Evaluation
- 21 -



Back To Office Report from ICR Mission
THE WORLD BANK/IFC/M.I.G.A.
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
DATE: April 10, 2001
TO:   Pervaiz Rashid, Lead Specialist (ECA)
FROM: Richard Carroll, Consultant
EXTENSION:   34107
SUBJECT:    BTO for IBTA Completion Mission
1.    During March 12 to March 26, 2001, I led the mission for the Implementation Completion
Report for the Institution Building Technical Assistance Project (IBTA). Because it was an
intensive learning ICR, I also planned and carried out a workshop (with support from the resident
mission) and conducted a survey. I arrived one week before the workshop, which was held on
March 19, 2001, and worked with the resident mission in final planning and implementation of the
workshop and survey. Messrs. Pervaiz Rashid and Marc Blanc arrived shortly before the
workshop. I also held a number of meetings with government agencies and non-government
stakeholders for additional input on the IBTA operation.
2.    The purpose of the workshop was to obtain feedback, assessments and lessons learned
from the IBTA, and help the Government would increase ownership of the continuing program.
Mr. Rashid and I made presentations on technical assistance projects in general and the survey
results for IBTA in particular. The goal of these presentations was to allow the workshop to
begin at a more advance point with some major issues already identified. The workshop schedule,
which ran from 9:00 AM to 4:45 PM, emphasized working group sessions which were divided
along the lines of the IBTA components. Several Bank staff of the Resident mission attended the
workshop and assisted during the working groups.
3.    The working groups convened for two hours focusing on the impact and follow up of
IBTA. Participants from each working group made brief presentations. A wrap-up from myself,
Pervaiz Rashid and Mr. David Pearce Resident Representative concluded the workshop.
4.    Invitees to the workshop included both medium and high level government officials. All
groups worked diligently to summarize the impact of their components and gave pertinent
presentations. Additional surveys were collected at the workshop bringing total survey responses
to 22. This number is a good level of response in light of the fact that a number of respondents
were under the impression that only one completed survey per implementing agency was required.
5.    Workshop participation was moderate with about 30 persons attending even though many
- 22 -



invitations were issued on short notice. The list of attendees is found in ANNEX 10 of the ICR.
6.    I compiled the quantitative and qualitative responses of the stakeholder survey in ANNEX
9 of the ICR. I held additional meetings with non-government stakeholders to supplement the
feedback from the surveys. All Government agencies provided responses, however, the Ministry
of Justice participation could have been stronger, both at the workshop and in terms of survey
responses.
7.    The staff at the World Bank resident mission in Tashkent were very helpful, especially Mr.
Fasliddin Rakhimov, and Ms. Sevara Atamuratova. The ICR for JBTA is scheduled to be
finalized by May, 2001.
cc: M. Blanc, F. Rakhimov, S. Padilla
Persons Met and Interviewed
Government of Uzbekistan
Cabinet of Ministers
Nariman Mannapbekov, Head of PIU and of Department for Foreign Economic Activities
Alisher Ubaidullaev, Former PIU Head, Cabinet of Ministers
Sobirj on E. Yuldoshev, Consultant to the Department for Coordination of Extemal Economic
Activities
Post and Telecommunications Agency
Abdulla N. Aripov, First Deputy to the General Director
Mikhail Nikitovich Koj akin, Deputy to the General Director
Khurshid A. Karimov, Head of International Relations Coordination Department
Central Bank of Uzbekistan
Karim M. Umarov, Director of Payment System and Informatization Department
Alexander Stupak, Deputy Head of Information Department
Jacques Gilman, Senior Advisor Financial Sector Development Agency
GKI
Zokhir T. Mukhitdinov, Leading Specialist, International Programs Department
Ministry of Labor
Alexander Novotny, Head of the Department of Labor Market Monitoring
- 23 -



Bukhara (Regional Offices)
Olim A. Jumaev, Deputy of the Hokim of Bukhara Region
Manakova, Head of Regional Statistics Department, Ministry of Macroeconomics and Statistics (
MOMS)
Akmirdov, Chief Statistician FBS (MOMS)
J. Tugoshiva, Statistics Specialist (MOMS)
Ilkhom Omonov, Head Regional Labor Department, MOL
Juraev Usman, First Deputy of the Legal Department MOJ
Juraev Rakmatullah, Deputy of Legal Department, MOJ
Erkin K. Faiziev, Deputy Head of Regional GKI
World Bank and Other Donors
Bakhtiyor Abdullaev Operations Officer EIBL and FIBL
Asad Alam, Senior Country Economist,PREM
Ulugbek Isayev, Project Management Specialist, USAID-Tashkent
Alexander G. Kalashnikov, Project Management Specialist, USAID-Tashkent
Juan Navas, Operations Officer IFC
Kazuko Ogawa, Senior Country Officer
David Pearce, Resident Representative Tashkent, Uzbekistan
Vayeen Rajagopalan (Task Manager 1995-97)
Fazliddin Rakhtimov, Operations Officer and Task Manager of IBTA
Mansoora Rashid, Human Resources Specialist
Pervaiz Rashid, Lead Specialist
Peter Reddish, Team Leader-Support to National Coordinating Unit, EU TACIS Programme
Svetoslav Tintchev, Senior Telecommunications Engineer
- 24 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Objectives/a              Planned Project Activities/a  Actual Implementation    Impact
I. Privatization and Public
Enterprise Reform
Strengthen policy         Provision of two long-termn    Partially implemented.  List of 40 companies was
development and           experts for further elaborating  Under umbrella contract  made with 3 companies
implementation capacity for  GOU's privatization     (Deloitte and Touche) instead  prepared for sale. Only two
privatization and public  program, including assistance  of individual experts.  companies have been sold to
enterprise reform, develop a  with implementation and                            date. Companies on list are
framework for enterprise    foreign partner search                               to be privatized under EIBL.
reforms.
Specialist to work on special  Implemented. Under      Counterparts developed
transactions that require  umbrella contract (Deloitte    expertise in legal process for
sector specific expertise as  and Touche)              privatization
well as on legal issues.               _
Provision of two public    Implemented. Under          Restructuring plans were
enterprise management      umbrella contract (Deloitte    drafted. Preparation for
specialists to develop a   and Touche). Funded by      privatization has lagged, but
framework for enterprise   EC-$1.1 million.           moved forward.
reforms.
Computers and office       Implemented. Local          Critical to monitoring and
equipment for CSPMP and     company installed computers   managing the privatization
Uzgosfond HQ and some of    as planned (at GKI, the    process, although the overall
their branches              merged entity of Uzgosfond    process has been slow.
and CSPMP).
Training of CSPMP and       Implemented. Under          Application of training was
Uzgosfond staff in privatization umbrella contract (Deloitte    limited because of low
methodologies and techniques  and Touche)              number of significant
as well as enterprise                                  privatizations.
management.
Software for National      Made possible the operation
Depository. Allowed registry  of the Stock Exchange.
and control for transactions in
the Stock Exchange.
- 25 -



Objectivesla                Planned Project Activities/a   Actual Implementation       Impact
II. Legal and Regulatory
Framework
Support the design and      Long-term legal advisor to    Started but cancelled contract  Minimal from IBTA
articulation of a strategy for  coordinate legal reforms and   of int'l law firm as firm did
legislative and regulatory    to assist govemment in the  not meet government
reform, in particular the   articulation of laws          performance requirements.
development of the private                                Other donors carried out
sector.                                                   planned activities (USAID,
GTZ)
Legal expert with strong      Not implemented by IBTA,    IBTA identified need, but
expertise in corporate and    but by other donors.          minimal impact as reported
commnercial law.                                            by USAID.
Short-term legal experts to  Not implemented by IBTA, but  IBTA identified need, but
work on specific laws.       by other donors.               minimal impact as reported
._____________ _             .by  USAID.
Advisors for petroleum        Implemented. Draft            If enacted, law would pave
legislation and model contracts. petroleum law was prepared.   way for foreign participation
See also sector studies.     in petroleum sector
Training programs, seminars  Implemented.                  Post training, MOJ specialists
and other materials.                                       continued drafting key
legislation for privatization
including resolutions for
foreign participation,
corporatization, bankruptcy
law and regulatory issues.
Computers and office         Implemented. Case              Judges can access case
equipment for MOJ            information can be logged in.   information for better
preparation of adjudication.
Vehicle provision for courts    Greater facility for judges and
(reallocation from cancelled    staff to reach meetings and
legal advisor funds)         adjudication sites, more
efficient use of time.
- 26 -



Objectives/a              Planned Project Activities/a  Actual Implementation    Impact
HII. Financial Sector
Support the modernization    Payments system feasibility    Not implemented. Feasibility  Govemment design led to
and institutional         study.                      study was not needed because  installation of functioning
strengthening of the Uzbek                            CBU already designed system   payments system.
financial system and thereby                         in consultation with Bank.
improve its ability to
facilitate economy wide
reforms.
Equipment, software and     Implemented. 14 CBU         Reduced payments
consulting for the initial  branches were linked       transaction time.
improvements of the present
payments system.
This component also linked  Transaction time reduced
900 branches at district level   from days to minutes,
going far beyond the original   improved record keeping and
plan.                       progress toward unified
account for liquidity
management (under the
follow-up FIBL).
Equipment and consulting for  Implemented. (USAID added  Off-site bank supervision
banking supervision.        funds in this area.)        capacity was significantly
improved.
Expert assistance for      Implemented. New chart of    New accounting and auditing
implementation of international accounts is in place.  standards have been adopted,
accounting and auditing                                but not fully operationalized.
standards for commercial banks
Undertake diagnostic and    Implemented. Saving Bank    A strategic step toward
strategic policy studies for  and two other large banks  restructuring and sale of
leading sectoral banks and  (Uzpromstroy Bank and       major banks, although
Saving Bank.                Pakhta Bank) underwent     restructuring and sale have
diagnostic studies.        been delayed.
Consultants, equipment and    Implemented. External debt   External debt monitoring is
software for external debt  units were established at the    centralized, but the efficiency
management.                 CBU and the MOF.            of external debt management
could be significantly
upgraded.
Training programs for CBU    Implemented.              Helped implement the
managers, accountants,                                 adoption of accounting and
auditors and information                               auditing standards consistent
technology specialists.                                with IAAS.
- 27 -



Objectives/a              Planned Project Activities/a  Actual Implementation    Impact
IV. Social Safety
Net/Employment
To develop a system for   Finance consulting services    Implemented. A new      New comprehensive data will
redefining the poverty line   and equipment to redesign  nationwide Family Budget    lead to more reliable policy
in order to better target  the family expenditure     Survey was carried out and is  making and poverty
social assistance, and    survey.                     an ongoing exercise.       targeting. However,
improve capacity to provide                                                      redefinition of the poverty
benefits and services.                                                           line has not been finalized.
Expert assistance to improve   Implemented through EC   Reports from current staff
policy making of the MOL on  financing (part of IBTA), of   suggest minimal impact.
employment issues.          $1.5 million.               (EC-TACIS could not
________ _  _     elaborate.)
Computerization of labor    Implemented. Functioning    Better information for job
offices.                    employment services was put  seekers and faster filling of
in place.                  vacancies for employees.
Reduction of time in locating
jobs. On average job seeker
spends two months finding a
job (maximum unemployment
compensation period is six
months).
Expert assistance to train SCFS  Implemented.           SCFS (MOMS) staff are able
staff with poverty monitoring                           to continue survey work
and targeting issues and to                            independently.
train MOL staff.
Objectives/a              Planned Project Activities/a  Actual Implementation    Impact
V. Sector Studies
To initiate policy making  Experts to assist          Implemented.                Gas fields have been
and sectoral development    Uzbekneftgas with petroleum                          tendered. Investment blocks
capacity of the agencies in   acreage tendering                                  were created to attract foreign
energy and                negotiations.                                          investors.
telecommunications sectors.
Advisors to develop policy  Implemented. Both a policy   Improved tariff policy and
making capacity of the      and a technical assessment    plan for physical upgrade.
Ministry of Telecom.        were carried out.
Experts for institutional   Implemented.                Ministry was restructured to
restructuring of the Ministry                          form Agency for
Telecommuncations and Post
and Uzbek Telecom, officially
separating the regulatory
from the operational
functions.
Advisors to review the     Implemented.                Privatization of Uzbek
sectoral rehabilitation plan                           Telecom is being supported
by the follow-up EIBL.
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)               __
Appaisa    ActaiiiLatest   Per6entne of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraial
Project Cost By Component             US$ milion    US$ million
Privatization and Enterprise Reforms                 4.00            4.00            100
Legal and Regulatory Framework                       1.80            1.60            89
Financial Sector                                     8.80            9.00            102
Social Safety Net                                    5.50            7.00            127
Sector Strategies and Studies                        2.60            3.30            127
Project Implementation                               0.30            0.07            23
Total Baseline Cost                                 23.00           24.97
Physical Contingencies                              2.00            0.00
Total Project Costs             25.00          24.97
Interest during construction
Total Financing Required             25.00           24.97
- 29 -



Project Costs b Procurement Arran ements (A  raisal Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent)
Exedtr Caegi                               NC            tte2NF.                 TotalCost
1. Works                      0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      8.05           0.00         0.70          0.08          8.83
(8.05)        (0.00)        (.0           (0.00)       (8.75)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          9.85          3.32         13.17
Consultancies and             (0.00)       (0.00)         (9.85)        (0.00)       (9.85)
Studies/3,4
Govemment Overhead            0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Training and Study         0.00           0.00          1.70         0.60          2.30
Tours                         (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.70)        (0.00)       (1.70)
Refinancing of PPF            0.00          0.00          0.70          0.00         0.70
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.70)        (0.00)       (0.70)
Total                       8.05          0.00         12.95          4.00         25.00
(8.05)        (0.00)       (12.95)       (0.00)        (21.00)
1. N.B.F. includes cofinancing , parallel financing and Government contribution
2. International Shopping - $700,000
3. Consultant services procured in accordance with Bank guidelines
4. Includes direct contracting for $100,000
roject Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                      0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)    L (j.0)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      11.50         0.00          3.10          0.08         14.68
(11.50)       (00)(3.10)                 (0.00)       (14.60)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          6.40          3.52         9.92
Consultancies and             (0.00)        (0.00)       (6.40)        (0.00)       (6.40)
Studies/3,4
Govemment Overhead            0.00          0.00          0.00          0.40         0.40
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Training and Study         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
Tours                         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Refinancing of PPF            0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      11.50          0.00         9.50          4.00         25.00
(11.50)       (0.00)        (9.50)       (0.00)       (21.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Government contribution of offices and personnel.
- 30 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Pementage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate          ActuaILatest Estimate
Bank      .ovL      Coa.      Bank       .ovt.    CoP.    Baink  GOVL  .CoF.
Privatization and        2.84      0.06      1.10      2.60       0.06      1.10    91.5  100.0  100.0
Enterprise Reforms
Legal and Regulatory     1.75      0.05      0.00       1.61      0.05      0.00    92.0  100.0  0.0
Framework
Financial Sector         8.65      0.15      0.00      9.90       0.15      0.00    114.5  100.0   0.0
Social Safety Net        3.95      0.10      1.50      4.27       0.10      1.50    108.1  100.0  100.0
Sector Strategies and    1.52      0.05      1.00      2.55       0.05      1.00    167.8  100.0  100.0
Studies
Project Implementation   0.30      0.00      0.00      0.07       0.00      0.00    23.3   0.0    0.0
Contingencies/Others*    2.00                          0.00                          0.0
Total                    21.00     0.40      3.60      21.00      0.40      3.60    100.0  100.0  100.0
- 31 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 32 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performanc Ratin
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
November 1992                5   E,L, Pr, P                          S             S
Appraisal/Negotiation
February 1993                5   E, L, F, P, Pr                      S             S
Supervision
September 1994               5   TM, F, P, L, Pr                     S             S
June 1995                    5   TM, F, P. L. Pr                     S             S
October 1995                 5   TM, F, L, P, Pr                     S             S
June 1996                    5   TM, F, L, P, Pr                     S             S
July 1996                    5   TM, F, L, P, Pr                     S             S
February 1997                2   TM, L                               S              S
July 1997                    3   TM, L, F                            S             S
March 1998                   2   TM, P                               S             S
July 1998                    2   TM, P                               S             S
March 1999                   2   TM, P                               S              S
May 1999                     I   TM                                  S             S
June 1999                    1   TM                                  S              S
December 1999                2   TM, P                               S              S
June 2000                    1   TM, P                               S             S
ICR
March 2001                   3    TM, E, F                           S             S
TM - Task Manager, E - Economist, F - Financial, P - Procurement, Pr - Privatization, L - Lawyer
(b) Staff:
I     Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              117.2                        310.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                    21.3                         62.2
Supervision                             299.6                        751.6
ICR                                     12.0/a                      40.0/a
Total                                   395.0                      1,028.5
- 33 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
N Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
2 Sector Policies                        OH   OSUOM  O N  * NA
0 Physical                               OH OSUOM ON ONA
E Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
F Institutional Development              0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
IEnvironmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Gender                            OH OSUOM ON *NA
D Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
* Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
F Public sector management               0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
0 Other (Please specify)                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 34 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
M Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
Z Supervision                                        O HS * S  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
Z Preparation                                        OHS OS   O U   O HU
F  Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS OS  0  U  0 HU
@ Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 35 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President on a Proposed Loan to the Republic of
Uzbekistan for an Institution Building/Technical Assistance Project, September 9, 1993.
Quality Assurance Group Supervision Assessment, 1997
Social and Structural Policy Review (SSPR)
Supervision and Project Status Reports
- 36 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
ANNEX 8A.
UZBEKISTAN: INSTITUTION BUILDING/
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (IBTA)
IMPACT ASSESSMENT SURVEY FORM
Affiliation: Government Agency/Company Name:
Title (during program/loan):
Current Title:
Length of time working with the program:
Component of the program on which you worked:_
Date
PART A.        Design, Objectives and Quality at Entry of the IBTA
(In your responses, please compare your experience with the attached overall and component descriptions)
i) Was the design of the overall IBTA appropriate and responsive to the main problems?
(4)    Very appropriate
(3)    Appropriate
(2)    Somewhat Appropriate
(1)    Not appropriate
ii) Was the design of your component appropriate to the problems faced?
(4)    Very appropriate
(3)    Appropriate
(2)    Somewhat Appropriate
(1)    Not appropriate
iii) How strong were the roles of major stakeholders in designing the program?
Government    NGOs  Private Sector
(4)    Very strong
(3)    Strong
(2)    Minor
(1)    Negligible
iv)    Were the objectives of the overall program and component clear?
Overall IBTA          Your Component
(4)    Extremely clear
(3)    Clear
(2)    Somewhat Unclear
(1)    Unclear
v)     How would you rate the quality of the IBTA at the time it was launched?
Overall IBTA?        Your Component?
(4)    Very high
(3)    Good
(2)    Could have been much better
(1)    Poor
- 37 -



vi)    Were the objectives achieved:    Overall IBTA?       Your Component?
(4)    Completely
(3)    Mostly
(2)    Partially
(1)    Not at all
vii)    Were there adequate resources to accomplish the objectives?
Fundine
(4)    Abundant/More than enough
(3)    Comfortable, no shortages
(2)    Adequate with some shortages
(1)    Insufficient
Staffing
(4)    Abundant/More than enough
(3)    Comfortable, no shortages
(2)    Adequate with some shortages
(1)    Insufficient
viii)   What improvements, if any, would you have made to the design and/or objectives of the IBTA?
PART B.        IBTA's Impact Capacity Building
ix)    What quantitative indicators do you have that measure the effects of your component of IBTA
(number of people trained, number and value of enterprises privatized, new laws enacted, etc.)?
x)     How would you rate the increased ability to carry out the reform program?
Because of            Because of
Overall IBTA          Your Component
(4)    Greatly improved
(3)    Improved
(2)    Somewhat improved
(1)    Not improved
xi)    Did the IBTA improve the efficiency and effectiveness of your section?
(4)    Greatly improved
(3)    Improved
(2)    Somewhat improved
(1)    Not improved
xii)    How did IBTA perform with respect to major areas of intervention?
Improving Incentives for Carrying out the Reform Program (through clearer goals. instituting better
rewards for good performance. etc.)
Overall IBTA          Your Component
(4)    Very strong
(3)    Strong
(2)    Moderate
- 38 -



(1)    Weak/Insignificant
Improving Institutional Ability to Carry out the Reform Program and to Operate within a Reformed
System
Overall IBTA          Your Component
(4)    Very strong
(3)    Strong
(2)    Moderate
(I)    Weak/Insignificant
Improving Skills and Transferring Knowledge Reguired for a New System (through consultants and
training)
Overall IBTA          Your Component
(4)    Very strong
(3)    Strong
(2)    Moderate
(1)    Weak/Insignificant
Direct Contribution to Institutional Reform (through actual privatizations, reorganizations. legal changes.
etc.)
Overall IBTA          Your Component
(4)    Very strong
(3)    Strong
(2)    Moderate
(1)    Weak/Insignificant
xiii)   How effective was the training conducted under IBTA?
Overall IBTA          Your Component
(4)    Very effective
(3)    Effective
(2)    Somewhat effective
(1)    Not effective
xiv)   How effective were the consultancies carried out under IBTA?
Overall IBTA          Your Component
(5)    Very effective
(4)      Effective
(3)    Somewhat effective
(1)    Not effective
xv)    What, if any, were the negative impacts of the overall IBTA and/or your component?
xvi)   What, if any, unexpected positive impacts were there?
PART C.   Sustainability (the Likelihood that the Improved Capacity Will Last After IBTA and
Supervision)
xvii)   How sustainable are the initiatives and accomplishments of the program?
- 39 -



(4)    Highly
(3)    Probably
(2)    Possibly
(1)    Unsustainable
xviii)  What were the most important factors in sustaining IBTA's achievements
(1- being most important, 6 is least important)
-      Level of Government participation and commitment
-      Factors beyond the control of the Government
-      Level of participation of non-Government stakeholders
-      Quality of staff
-      Sufficient budget resources
-      Legal issues
xix)   Are the gains of IBTA sustainable in the areas of:
Training?        Procurement Function?
(4)    Highly
(3)    Probably
(2)    Possibly
(I)    Unsustainable
xx)    How would you describe the importance and quality of World Bank supervision?
PART D.       Lessons Learned from IBTA and Suggestions for the Future
xxi)   What would you have done differently in implementing the program if you
were the World Bank?
xxii)   What would you have done differently in implementing the program if you
were the Central Government?
xxiii)   What strategies in implementation and design were particularly effective?
Name (optional):
-40 -



Please email your response to:
Or Fax to:
ANNEX 8B.
Uzbekistan: IBTA Impact Assessment Survey Quantitative Results
Question                                                               Com onent 1/ Rating 2/
A.     Design, Objectives and Quality at Entry of IBTA            1        2  3    4     5    All
(i) Was the design of the overall IBTA appropriate to the main problems in  3.0  3.0   3.0   3.2   3.0   3.1
capacity building?
(4) Very appropriate (3) Appropriate (2) Somewhat Appropriate (I)
Not appropriate
(ii) Was the design of your component appropriate to the main problems in  3.0   3.0   3.2   3.3   3.0   3.2
capacity building?
(4) Very appropriate (3) Appropriate (2) Somewhat Appropriate (1)
Not appropriate
(iii) How strong were the roles of major stakeholders in designing the
program? (4) Very strong (3) Strong (2) Minor (I) Negligible
Government                                                    3.0  3.0   3.2   3.7   3.5   3.3
NGOs                                                          2.0   0     3.0   2.0   1.0  2.0
Private Sector                                                2.0   0     3.0  2.6   2.5   2.5
(iv) Were the objectives of the program and component clear?
(4)    Extremely clear (3) Clear (2) Somewhat Unclear (1) Unclear
Overall                                                       3.0   3.0   3.3   4.0   3.0   3.5
Your Component                                                3.3   3.0   3.0   3.6   3.0   3.3
(v) How would you rate the quality of the IBTA at the time it was
launched? (4) Very high (3) Good (2) Could have been much better (1)
Poor
Overall                                                       3.0  3.0  2.8   3.0   3.0   2.9
Your Component                                                3.0  3.0  2.3  3.1   3.0   2.9
(vi) Were the objectives achieved? (4)    Completely (3) Mostly (2)
Partly (1) Not at all
Overall                                                       3.0  2.0   3.5   3.2   3.0   3.2
Your Component                                                3.3   2.5  3.3   3.4   3.0   3.2
(vii) Were there adequate resources to accomplish the objectives? (4)
Abundant/More than enough (3) Comfortable, no shortages (2)
Adequate w/some shortages (1) Insufficient
Funding                                                       2.8   1.0  2.8   2.5   3.0   2.6
Staffing                                                      2.8   2.0   2.2   2.3   2.5   2.3
1/ Components: 1. Privatization and Enterprise Reform; 2. Legal and Regulatory Framework;
3. Financial Sector; 4. Social Safety Net; and 5. Sector Strategies
Note: Based on 22 responses.
2/ Survey form 9a defines the rating for each question.
-41 -



Question                                                           Compnent Rating
B. IBTA's Impact on Capacity Building                        1    2    3    4    5    All
(x) How would you rate the increased ability to carry out the reform
program? (4) Very strong (3) Strong (2) Moderate (1)
Weak/Insignificant
Because of the Overall IBTA                              3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0
Because of Your Component                                3.0  3.0  3.0  2.8  3.0  2.9
(xi) Did the IBTA improve the efficiency and effectiveness of your
section? (4) Greatly improved (3) Improved (2) Somewhat
improved (1) Not improved                                  2.8  3.0  3.0  3.0  2.5  2.9
(xii) What were the component's impacts? (4) Very strong (3)
Strong (2) Moderate (1) Weak/Insignificant
Improving incentives for carrying out the reform program
Overall                                               3.0  2.0  2.7  2.4  2.0  2.5
Your Component                                         3.3  2.5  3.3  3.4   3.0  2.8
Improving institutional ability to carry out the reform program
Overall                                                3.0  2.0  3.5  3.2  3.0  2.9
Your Component                                         3.3  2.5  3.3  3.4  3.0  2.8
Improving skills and transferring knowledge needed for a new
system
Overall                                               3.0  2.0  3.5  3.2  3.0  2.4'
Your Component                                        3.3  2.5  3.3  3.4  3.0  2.5
Direct contribution to institutional reform
Overall                                               3.0  2.0  3.5  3.2  3.0  2.3
Your Component                                        3.3  2.5  3.3  3.4  3.0  2.6
(xiii) How effective was the training conducted under IBTA?
Overall                                                3.0  3.0  2.5  2.4  3.0  2.6
Your Component                                         2.5  3.0  2.7  3.2  2.5  2.8
(xiv) How effective were the consultancies carried out under IBTA?
Overall                                                3.0  3.0  2.7  2.4  3.0  2.6
Your Component                                         3.0  3.0  3.0  2.6  3.0  2.9
- 42 -



Question                                                           Component Rating    -
C. Sustainability of the Program                              1    2    3    4    5   All
(xvii) How sustainable are the initiatives and accomplishments of the
component? (4) Highly (3) Probably (2) Possibly (1) Unsustainable  3.0  4.0  3.2  3.5  3.0  3.3
(xviii) What were the most important factors in sustaining IBTA's
achievements. (1- being most important and 6- least important)
Rank
1. Level of Government participation and commitment    2.3   0    1.0  1.0  1.0  1.4
2. Legal issues                                  3.3   0    1.7  3.0  2.0  2.5
3. Quality of staff                              3.0   0    2.2  3.3  3.0  2.8
4. Sufficient budget resources                   3.0   0    3.3  2.0  3.5  2.8
5. Level of participation of non-Government stakeholders  4.0   0    5.0  5.0  5.5  4.8
6. Factors beyond the control of the Government  5.5        5.0  6.0  4.5  5.3
(xix) Are the gains of IBTA sustainable? (4) Highly (3) Probably (2)
Possibly (1) Unsustainable
Training                                                  3.0   0    3.0  2.1  3.0  2.7
Procurement function                                      3.0  3.0  3.2  3.0  3.5  3.1
ANNEX 8C. Qualitative Results
In addition to the quantitative responses, the survey respondents made a number of comments on
performance of the IBTA and suggestions for improvement. A tally of the responses are divided according
to design, implementation and supervision and results and outcomes of the project.
The responses reveal several themes. The importance of the Bank understanding local conditions
and constraints is brought up by a nunber of respondents. Unfortunately, it was not made clear in the
workshop exactly what local conditions were not considered and, therefore, how these conditions could be
incorporated into project design and implementation.
Another theme deals with consultants. The Govermment would have liked greater assistance from
the World Bank in selecting consultants, ostensibly to avoid the problems encountered during
implementation of IBTA. Respondents would have liked the World Bank to have taken a stronger role in
general in supervising the project. There was also the concem that the Bank took too much time in making
decisions (approvals) for project activities.
Training is clearly an area that respondents feel is important and most comments concerning
training indicate the need for increased training allocation. There was not any specific proposal for
imnproving the efficiency of training.
Finally, although the Government as a whole sometimes displayed reluctance to use IBTA funds to
hire consultants, there were a number of suggestions that additional consulting expertise was needed,
particularly in the areas of oil and gas development and banking supervision and accounting.
Specific comments from the surveys are listed below.
Design
Expand objectives and functions of the IBTA
Complex implementation approach must incorporate local conditions
- 43 -



*     IBTA covers most buming aspects of institutional development (social statistics)
*      Privatization approach should recognize existing conditions
hIncrease allocation for training (incl. Project team)
*      Regular training is needed for regional personnel
*      More technical assistance is needed for oil and gas
*      More Technical assistance is needed for banking supervision and accounting
Implementation and Supervision
*      Reduce time for WB decision-making
*      Improve coordination between linked components
*      Stage by stage implementation with strict deadlines under IBTA was a good approach
*      Closer monitoring by the WB from the very beginning and render advice and intervention
*      Improved selection of experts
*      Personnel in the statistics department are not retained
*      Additional consulting services to introduce the new chart of accounts and accounting for banks
is needed
*     The Bank did not intervene adequately in the consultancy for the legal aspects of oil and gas
*      The complexity of IBTA required greater Bank supervision effort.
*      More active PIU involvement needed to achieve better results.
Results and Outcome
*      IBTA achieved objectives in every component
*     World Bank must understand client constraints and local conditions
*      Sector restructuring and development of laws
*      Implementation of Government reforms
*      All components achieved good results.
*      Government should set up an inter-ministerial agency for statistical research
*      Simplify the structure of the project and eliminate the lack of conformity in procurement
procedures between the Bank and the Government
- 44 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
Annex 9A.
Uzbekistan: Institution Building/Technical Assistance Project (IBTA) - Loan 3650
Impact Assessment Workshop
March 19, 2001
9:00 AM - 4:45 PM
Intercontinental Hotel, Tashkent
AGENDA
9:00-9:15    Chairman's Welcome and Opening Remarks - Mr. David Pearce, Resident
Representative, World Bank
9:15-9:30    Opening Remarks from the Government - Mr. Nariman Mannapbekov, Cabinet of
Ministers, Head of Project Implementation Unit
9:30-10:30   Review of Survey Results for the IBTA - Messrs. Richard Carroll and Pervaiz
Rashid
10:30-10:45  Coffee Break
10:45-11:45  Government Comments on IBTA (by component)
11:45-1:00   Working Groups (1. Privatization and Enterprise Reform, 2. Legal and Regulatory
Reform, 3. Financial Sector, 4. Social Safety Net and Employment Services, and 5.
Sector Studies)
1:00-2:00    Lunch
2:00-3:00    Working Groups (continued)
3:00-3:30    Component Working Group Presentations and Discussion: Lessons Learned for
Future
Operations
3:30-3:45    Coffee Break
3:45-4:30    Working Group Presentations (continued)
4:30-4:45    Summary and Closing Remarks
-45 -



Annex 9B.
Workshop Comments
Detailed Comments from Working Groups
In addition to the qualitative and quantitative survey results, there were specific comments submitted
by certain working groups at the Stakeholder Workshop that are included here. The comments are
particularly concerned with the privatization and social components.
Privatization and Enterprise Reform
Achievements
*     Creation of the Intranet for the GKI offices (data exchange, integrated database). Fundamental
changes in the main software of the Central Depository (it complies with international standards; allows for
electronic data exchange with other information systems on the stock market).
*     Assistance in developing regulatory framework and privatization strategy (Deloitte & Touche
involvement in the development of privatization strategy for large enterprises with foreign investors).
Assistance in developing regulatory framework (capital market development; the key laws
regulating
operation of securities market and JSC for the purposes of privatization through corporatization).
-     Creation institutional framework for the future WB projects. Facilitation to establish the two
LKBL PIUs with office equipment. The project has identified the main objectives and tasks for the next WB
project financed through the EIBL(Enterprise Institutional Building Loan).
Sustainability of the achieved results
a)    For the present the technical facilitation obtained under the loan is sustainable However, the
lntranet has to be further improved to keep apace with the advancements in information and computer
technologies.
Further improvement of securities storage and record reliability through the establishment of a
backup
center.
b)    In the areas where consultancy services had been provided, the positive results were not
sustainable. For instance:
*     The results of the automobile market survey had been used neither by the GKI, nor the WB project
in their future operations;
*     Of the 40 enterprises surveyed, only two had been privatized with foreign investments. No
systematic work had been done on the others.
Lessons learned:
*     No component implementation unit was established which resulted in major staff rotation at the
GKI and thus affected the project implementation.
- 46 -



*      Lack of experience of the GKI staff in dealing with international financial institutions and projects
(drafting terms of reference and bidding documents, negotiating with consultants). It is therefore advisable
to begin a project with training the PIU staff in Bank procedures.
*      Better use could have been made of the local experts' capabilities and potential.
Social component
Achievements included:
*      A new design of the family budget survey which is the main source of information on living
standards and employment and provide reliable information appropriate by intemational standards.
*     Computerization of employment offices allows a new and better information system on demand and
supply in the formal/official labor market.
*      Skills transfer-staff who have worked on the component implementation gained new
internationally accepted skills and experience of work.
These results are considered to be sustainable as (1) they are introduced in the activity of
statistical
and labor agencies; (2) as information based on FBS is regular and systematic; (3) the
ground for
further activities has been created.
Participants of the discussion group also focused on lessons they learnt during the project work,
what helped and what was weak, what they found to be desirable. Professionalism at all levels including
the WB-consultants- recipient agency is regarded as a necessary condition of success in implementation.
Inclusion of the local experts in the team facilitates implementation. Strong partnership relations are
required for all types of project work. Patience and persistence are necessary. If the work were to be done
differently, more attention would be paid to the qualifications of international consultants. Lack or absence
of coordination and linkage between governmental agencies related to procurement was stressed as a
weakness and a barrier. The project could be designed better, and significant changes like changes in labor
offices could have been done on a pilot basis. The project design leaves room for better time-frame.
Financing was not always adequate.
The group made the following recommendations on possible ways to improve project implementation
basing on lessons leamt:
1. Improve selection of international consultants and the Bank's staff to help more actively in consultants
selection.
2. Better train local specialists who would be implementing a project.
3. Improve intergovernmental coordination under the Cabinet of Ministers.
4. Implement pilots before large procurements (this relates to labor offices where procurement of software
and computers had complications). Better identification of priorities and sequencing of procurement and
works.
5. Beneficiary agencies should monitor the work of specialists trained; and improve the selection
(procedure) of specialists for training.
Main Presentation Points from Working Groups
In addition to these more detailed notes, working groups made presentations from flip charts. The
- 47 -



main points were translated from the charts and are presented below by component. Many of the points
reinforce the results of the Stakeholder Survey.
Privatization and Enterprise Reform
*      Project implementers need more training from the beginning of the project.
*      Good skills transfer occurred during negotiations and procurement.
*      Consultants need to understand local conditions and work closely with local counterparts.
Financial Sector
*      The implementing agency went far beyond expectations in terms of the scope of the Payments
system with transactions times reduced from days to minutes.
*     World Bank was slow to believe in the local financial capacity.
Social Component
*      With the implementation of the Family Budget Survey, the Govenmment went far in overcoming
intemational non-acceptance of social data.
*     The RTI contract was a victory for the client (GOU) asserting its rights and insisting on adherence
to contract provisions. Main lesson was to select consultants very carefully (consultants familiar with local
conditions).
-     Bank provided good expert advice and was not just in the role of a creditor). However, the Bank
should help more in consultant selection
Sector Studies
*     For both the Telecom and Uzbekneftgas consultancies, the main impact was the change in
mentality helped by the consultants (Mckinsey, NTTI/DETECON).
*      On the Telecom side, the studies were successful in all aspects.
*      However, the ability to pay off existing loans in Telecom is exhausted (implying that proceeds
from the privatization of Uzbek Telecom are needed soon).
For Uzbekneftgas, the acreage tendering study was successful, but follow-up legal and negotiations training
is needed.
General ICR Comments on the Workshop
Strategic Solutions. Although the workshop was comprehensive and participants were fairly candid in
their comments, there seemed to be a lack of strategic thinking in many of the presentations. For example,
it would have been valuable to go beyond expressing the need for improvement in skills transfer,
maximizing consultant benefits, inproving work with the Bank, and training. The Bank presented the
survey results as a starting point for discussions, reported areas where respondents expressed the need for
improvements, and provided guidelines for working groups discussions and presentations. Still, it was very
difficult to elicit strategies for achieving these improvements. These areas of needed improvement (shown
in Annexes 9A and B) will require continued follow up, in order to identify specific improvement strategies.
Staff working on the FIBL and EIBL should be aware of these specific areas and work to devise new ways
to achieve better use of loan resources.
- 48 -



Workshop Format. Although work group sessions were very useful, the Stakeholder workshop as a whole
is perhaps too formal for the give and take type of exchange needed to produce deeper lessons learned and
strategic solutions. Participants also need a clear incentive to attend. Perhaps this could be achieved by
enlisting stronger support of the managers of the people who actually attend the workshop.
ANNEX 9C.
LIST OF ATTENDEES BY WORKING GROUP
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
IBTA Implementation Completion Workshop
TASHKENT, March 19, 2001
COM, PIUs and Component's representatives:
l.    Mr. Nariman Mannapbekov, Head Department for Foreign Economic Activities
2.    Mr. Shukhrat Vafoev, Chief, Department for Foreign Economic Activities
3.    Mr. Sobirjon Yuldashev, Consultant
4.    Mr. Bakhtier Khamraev, Procurement Specialist
5.    Mr. Zavikhulla Nasriddinkhodjaev, Information Department
MOF
6.    Mr. Abdulaziz Muradov, External Debt Component Coordinator
7.    Mr. Ilkhom Babajanov, Leading Economist
GKI
8.    Ms. Fiagul Mirgalieva, Chief Technologist, Depositary
9.    Mr. Zohir Muhiddinov
10.   Mr. Haydarov, Sector Development
Uzbek Post and telecommunication Agency
11.   Mr. Abdulla Aripov, First Deputy General Director
12.   Mr. Khurshid Karimov, Head of International Economic Relations
13.   Mr. Mikhail Kojakin, Deputy General Director
MOL
14.   Mr. Abdurakhmon Tolipov
15.   Mr. Nurmamad Tursunov
MOMS
- 49 -



16.   Ms. Reiganat Makhmudova, Head of Poverty Monitoring Departnent
17.   Mr. Pyotr Dolgopolov
CBRU
18. Mr. Karim Umarov
19.   Mr. Elibay Jabbarov, Deputy Head of Information Department
20.   Mr. Alexander Stupak, Deputy Head of Information Department
Deutsche bank
21.   Mr. Miyassar Olimova,
UZBEKNEFTEGAZ Corporation
22.   Mr. Anvar Gulyamov
Expert Fikry
23.   Mr. Alisher Ilkhamov, Director
CER
24.   Mr. Bahodur Eshonov, Director
25.   Mr. Ulugbek Olimov, Expert
World Bank
26.   Mr. David Pearce, Chief of the Resident Office
27.   Mr. Pervaiz Rashid, Lead Specialist
28.   Mr. Marc Blanc, Regional Operations Advisor
29.   Mr. Fasliddin Rakhimov, Operation Officer
30.   Mr. Richard Carroll, Consultant
31.   Ms. Rada lankina, External Affairs
32.   Mr. Bakhtier Abdullaev, Operations Officer
33.   Mr. Bekzod Shamsiev, Operations Officer
34.   Ms. Dilnara Isamiddinova, Operations Officer
35.   Mr. Anatoly Krutov, Operations Officer
36.   Ms. Oxana Mushtatenko, Disbursement Assistant
37.   Ms. Sevara Atamuartova, Intern
38.   Mr. Sergei Osipov, Interpreter
39.   Ms. Tatiana Okunckaya, Interpreter
40.   Ms. Raisa Kabaeva, Interpreter
- 50 -



IBRD 28006R2
55-                                                           60                                                          65'                                                           70'
|               7 iX   ) ' .,71                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~UZBEKISTAN
KAZAKHSTAN                                                      .-                                                                                                              UZ'I-A
/! Y7]J <9 j ; ' -;- C SELECTED CITIES
45'     Ooyne.  .                                                                                  '                                                                                                   OBLAST CAPITALS
Aral                                                                                                                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL
ii _.                                                                                                                           MAIN ROADS
/ ,,,   J                                                                                                          _ 5  _!    '  _'_'  _ ' ' >%  RAILROADS
-    RIVERS
- -    s      ,4X< .................. .... I4                                                                                                                w  . . ---. INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
             \           j _               _-1 ~~~~~~~~~~~990 I-l ofAral Sea- 
X                        {   '                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19601evelofAralS.._--_  
Nkus- w                                                                                                                    ; KAZAKHSTAN    f 
To~~ ~ ~ \.UenI                                              kh    of o  n                   >                                                            JM-
[hyb~~~~~~~~~o~                                                    NMrnthr,                                                                            Cho,dr, ^ Shmsnsd nt;rWlfmk ,Soedkn--h<~
Nukus~~
55                                                                                                                                                                                   KAAHTN r/, ,4 _ 0, ,' DAhn
.  J;   j;   t;                                                   >                   ,,       _     1               ,              Li7n7u,g tfq 11 b     i                   /           2~~~~~~~~D~g to
40                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        40A4'o2   07  toI sI0Klmsr  >S.,h        uyt  
Noyci~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  nzio
S,>s on6opo9STAN 00o25 S0  lOhie ok                      TURKME  AGHNISTAN                                                                                        (                                             >
G,t,p  >-e AFGHANISTAN 5 l--- Is;TERNATloNAL   <I.R. OF IRAN                                                        S                       ?.9sdi               | ;>                            7                               PA        _
50  60   70'  80 *'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~. 50'  Chordzhoo ~      ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     efani
-P~~~~~~~~~~-
KAZAKHSTAN 
%kk .          kRGYZ RE P. "10Kontn
~~~    40'                       0~~~~~~~1 25 510 75 100 125 10Kl.t
44    rrt           CHINA                                K____y____
TURKMENISTAN \"     4--
tTAJI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4TAN~~~~~~~~AKSA



