Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3650 UZ
                          Loan Agreement
        (Institution Building/Technical Assistance Project)
                              between
                      REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated October 22, 1993
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3650 UZ
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 22, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF
UZBEKISTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B)   to assist in the financing of the Project, the Borrower
intends to obtain: (i) a grant in an amount equivalent to one
million dollars ($1,000,000) from Japan on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Bank as administrator of grant funds, provided by Japan; and
(ii) a grant in an amount equivalent to two million six hundred
thousand dollars ($2,600,000) from the European Community (EC) on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and EC; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "PIU" means Project Implementation Unit established
within the Department of the Coordination of External Economic
Activity of the Borrower's Cabinet of Ministers;
      (b)   "CSPMP" means the Borrower's Commission for State
Property Management and Privatization;
      (c)   "SFSC" means the Borrower's State Committee of
Forecasting and Statistics;
      (d)   "Uzgosfond" means the Borrower's agency within the
Ministry of Finance to manage the state's share in privatized
entities, established by Cabinet of Ministers' Decree No. 518 dated
November 10, 1992;
      (e)   "Uzbekneftgas" means the Borrower's state agency for the
development of oil and gas resources, established by Presidential
Decree No. V11/518 dated December 23, 1992;
      (f)   "Project Agencies" means, collectively, the Borrower's
ministries and other governmental agencies referred to in the Annex
to Schedule 2 of this Agreement;
      (g)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated September 3, 1993 (PPF Agreement Letter
P220-UZB) between the Borrower and the Bank; and
      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty one million dollars ($21,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in
Page  3
respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
Page  4
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through
the Project Agencies set forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and management
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purpose of overall administration of the
activities to be carried out under the Project and the procurement
of goods and services required thereof, the Borrower shall maintain
the PIU headed at all times by a coordinator, whose qualifications
and experience shall be acceptable to the Bank, and who shall be
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers and having
appropriate skills.
      Section 3.04. The PIU shall:
      (a)   submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports in a
format and degree of detail acceptable to the Bank; and
      (b)   based on information provided by the Project Agencies,
prepare its contribution to the project completion report within six
months of the Closing Date, covering all related activities during
project implementation.
      Section 3.05. Regarding the training programs to be carried
out under the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
approval of the content of each of such programs as well as the
schedule for its implementation and the criteria for the selection
of trainees.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
Page  5
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that:
      (a)   Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section the right of
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
thereof; and
      (b)   Subparagraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such
suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such agree-
ment; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Page  6
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Mustakillik Meydani
            Tashkent
            Republic of Uzbekistan
                                           Telex:
                                             116360 IKBOL
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
                         By /s/ Bakhtiayr Sultanovich Hamidov
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia
Page  7
                           SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Computers,                 8,550,000      100% of foreign
      equipment and                             expenditures,
      materials                                 100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost), and
                                                75% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(2)  Consultants'                9,750,000      100%
     services and
     training
(3)  Refunding                     700,000      Amounts due
     of Project                                 pursuant to
     Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                    of this Agreement
(4)  Unallocated                 2,000,000
                                __________
       TOTAL                    21,000,000
                                ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures".
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) provide assistance
in the elaboration and formulation of the Borrower's economic reform
policies and programs; and (ii) help build the institutional
capacity and skills base to carry out these reform policies and
programs.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  8
Part A:     Enterprise Reform and Privatization
      Strengthening the institutional capacity of the CSPMP and
Uzgosfond through provision of expert assistance, training and
equipment required for:
            (i)   designing strategy and methodology on
                  privatization and public enterprise reform;
           (ii)   establishing a basic financial database on
                  enterprises to facilitate monitoring of the
                  privatization process and to develop com-
                  munications between regional offices and the
                  headquarters of the CSPMP and Uzgosfond; and
          (iii)   carrying out public information campaign
                  regarding the Borrower's privatization program to
                  inform the public and other prospective
                  investors.
Part B:     Legal and Regulatory Framework
      Provision of assistance required for designing and establish-
ment of a legal and institutional framework for the private sector
development, including petroleum legislation and model contracts,
through legal advisory services, legal training and equipment
necessary for the foregoing.
Part C:     Financial Reform
1.    Provision of assistance to the Central Bank of the Borrower
in:
            (i)   developing an efficient and modern payments
                  system that will link up regional clearing
                  centers and launch a long term payments system
                  study;
           (ii)   establishing external debt monitoring and debt
                  management department; and
          (iii)   strengthening the banking supervisory function,
                  including both on-site and off-site supervision.
2.    Assisting the establishment of adequate infrastructure for
financial sector reform through:
            (i)   the introduction of modern accounting and
                  auditing principles for the commercial banks and
                  enterprises; and
           (ii)   undertaking diagnostic studies on the current
                  financial status of the state banks.
Part D:     Social Safety Net
1.    Provision of assistance to SFSC of the Borrower to redesign
the existing family budget survey to establish the basis for
developing policy on income support and poverty alleviation.
2.    Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Ministry of
Labor through assistance in: (i) developing its labor market policy;
and (ii) enhancing the capacity of the employment service.
Part E:     Sector Strategies and Studies
1.    Energy Sector: Provision of assistance to Uzbekneftgas in the
preparation of tendering program for petroleum development and in
Page  9
negotiating petroleum production agreements.
2.    Telecommunications Sector: Provision of assistance to the
Ministry of Communications in strengthening its policy making
capacity  and to review and revise the institutional developments.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 1997.
                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
                 Project Agencies Responsible for
                     Execution of the Project
Part of the Project                 Agency
Part A                              CSPMP/Uzgosfond
Part B                              Legal Department of the
                                    Cabinet of Ministers
Part C                              Central Bank of
                                    Uzbekistan/Ministry of Finance
Part D (1)                          SFSC
Part D (2)                          Ministry of Labor
Part E (1)                          Uzbekneftgas
Part E (2)                          Ministry of Communications
                           SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                     Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*
June 15, 1999                             395,000.00
December 15, 1999                         405,000.00
June 15, 2000                             420,000.00
December 15, 2000                         440,000.00
June 15, 2001                             455,000.00
December 15, 2001                         470,000.00
June 15, 2002                             490,000.00
December 15, 2002                         505,000.00
June 15, 2003                             525,000.00
December 15, 2003                         545,000.00
June 15, 2004                             565,000.00
December 15, 2004                         585,000.00
June 15, 2005                             610,000.00
December 15, 2005                         630,000.00
June 15, 2006                             655,000.00
December 15, 2006                         680,000.00
June 15, 2007                             705,000.00
December 15, 2007                         730,000.00
June 15, 2008                             755,000.00
December 15, 2008                         785,000.00
June 15, 2009                             815,000.00
December 15, 2009                         845,000.00
June 15, 2010                             875,000.00
December 15, 2010                         910,000.00
June 15, 2011                             940,000.00
December 15, 2011                         975,000.00
June 15, 2012                           1,015,000.00
December 15, 2012                       1,050,000.00
June 15, 2013                           1,090,000.00
December 15, 2013                       1,135,000.00
Page  10
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                        0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                        0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                          0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                       0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                        1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Page  11
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
international recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into
packages.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Uzbekistan may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.    Subject to prior approval by the Bank, contracts for goods
which are of proprietary nature or which require standardization
with existing equipment may be awarded after direct negotiations
with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract procured under
International Competitive Bidding set forth in Part A of Section 1
of this Schedule 4 and the first two contracts procured under
international shopping the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
Page  12
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
Page  13
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
Page  14
