Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                     JAPANESE GRANT RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 3650 UZ
                     Japanese Grant Agreement
        (Institution Building/Technical Assistance Project:
                   Telecommunications Component)
                              between
                      REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                  as Administrator of Grant Funds
                         provided by JAPAN
                      Dated October 22, 1993
                    JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 22, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF
UZBEKISTAN (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as Administrator (the
Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
      WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a Loan Agreement (Institution Building
Project), dated October 22, 1993, between the Recipient and the Bank
(the IBRD Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to extend to the
Recipient a loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty one million dollars ($21,000,000) to assist in the financing
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the IBRD Loan Agreement
(the Project);
      WHEREAS (B) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990
between Japan and the Bank and International Development Association
(the Association), Japan has requested the Bank and the Association,
and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant
funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain
programs and projects supported by the Bank and the Association, as
the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of such letter
agreement;
      WHEREAS (C) Japan has agreed to make available to the
Recipient a grant out of said grant funds (the Grant) to assist the
Page  2
Recipient in carrying out the Project on the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph
(b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement:
            (i)   Article I;
           (ii)   Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9),
                  (10), (11), (18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
          (iii)   Section 3.01;
          (iv)    Section 4.01 and the first sentence of
                  Section 4.09;
            (v)   Article V;
           (vi)   Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i)
                  and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
          (vii)   Section 8.01 (b);
         (viii)   Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
                  9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
           (ix)   Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
            (x)   Article XI.
      (b)   The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
            (i)   the term "Bank", wherever used in the General
                  Conditions, other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and
                  6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term in
                  Section 5.01 thereof, means the International
                  Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting as
                  Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the letter
                  agreement between Japan and the Bank and the
                  Association referred to in Recital (B) of this
                  Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the term
                  "Bank" shall also include the International Bank
                  for Reconstruction and Development acting in its
                  own capacity;
           (ii)   the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General
                  Conditions, means the Recipient;
          (iii)   the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the
                  General Conditions, means this Agreement except
                  that in Section 6.02 (a), the term "Loan
                  Agreement" means the IBRD Loan Agreement;
           (iv)   the term "Loan", wherever used in the General
                  Conditions, means the Grant;
            (v)   the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the
                  General Conditions means the Grant Account, an
                  account opened by the Administrator on its books
                  in the name of the Recipient to which the amount
                  of the Grant is credited; and
           (vi)   Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
Page  3
                        "Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall
                  be made in dollars; provided, however, that if
                  the expenditures to be financed out of the Grant
                  have been paid or are payable in another
                  currency, the Administrator shall, at the request
                  of the Recipient, purchase such currency with the
                  proceeds of such withdrawal."
      Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions, in the Recitals to this Agreement and in the IBRD Loan
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Grant
      Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to
the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, a grant in an amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn
from the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, for
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Part E.2 of the Project and to be financed out of the
Grant.
      (b)   The Recipient shall, for the purposes of Part E.2 of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in
a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, goods and services to be financed out of the Grant shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the IBRD
Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later
date.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein,
Articles III, IV and V of the IBRD Loan Agreement, including the
Schedules referred to therein, are hereby incorporated into this
Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, it being understood that all references in said
Articles to the "Bank" shall be deemed to be references to the Bank
as Administrator of the Grant under this Agreement, all references
to the "Borrower" shall be deemed to be references to the Recipient,
and all references to the "Loan" and the "Loan Account" shall be
deemed to be references to the Grant and the Grant Account,
respectively.
                            ARTICLE IV
                           Effectiveness
      Section 4.01. (a) This Agreement shall become effective upon
the Effective Date of the IBRD Loan Agreement, and the Administrator
Page  4
shall promptly notify the Recipient of such date.
      (b)   This Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereto
shall terminate if the IBRD Loan Agreement shall terminate pursuant
to Section 12.04 of the General Conditions for failure to become
effective.
      Section 4.02. Subject to Section 4.01(b) of this Agreement,
this Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled
their obligations hereunder.
                            ARTICLE V
                          Representation
      Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Recipient:
            Ministry of Finance
            Mustakillik Meydani
            Tashkent
            Republic of Uzbekistan
                                          Telex:
                                            116360 IKBOL
      For the Administrator:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names as of the day and year first above
written.
                  REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
                  By /s/ Bakhtiayr Sultanovich Hamidov
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT
                  as Administrator of the Grant
Page  5
                  By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia
                           SCHEDULE 1
                      Withdrawal of the Grant
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the
Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items
so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Grant Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed          Expenditures
      Category               in Dollars)        to be Financed
(1)   Consultants'            920,000           100%
      services and
      training
(2)   Computers,               80,000           100% of foreign
      equipment                                 expenditures, 100%
      and materials                             of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost), and 75% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally
                            _________
            TOTAL           1,000,000
                            =========
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of the IBRD Loan Agreement.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part E.2 of the Project and to be financed out of the amount of the
Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Category¦iesá in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $100,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  6
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient,
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Administrator shall
                  specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient,
                  withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Recipient
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures. All such deposits shall be
                  withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant
                  Account under the respective eligible Categories,
                  and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
                  shall have been justified by said documents and
                  other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special
Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Administrator such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Administrator shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient
directly from the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories for Part E.2 of the Projectá, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to Part E.2 of the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter,
withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts
E.2 of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Administrator
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
Page  7
(or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the
Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until the
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund
to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
