Page  1
CEO Endorsement Template: 
 
September 2006
 
1
GEFSEC P
ROJECT 
ID: 
647
A
GENCY
’
S
P
ROJECT 
ID:
 P041396 
C
OUNTRY
:
Morocco 
P
ROJECT 
T
ITLE
:
Integrated Solar Combined 
Cycle Power Plant 
GEF 
 
IA/ExA:
 The World Bank 
O
THER PROJECT EXECUTING AGENCY
(
IES
): 
Office National de l'Electricite (O.N.E.) 
D
URATION
:
6
years 
GEF F
OCAL 
A
REA
:
Climate Change 
GEF S
TRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
:
S5 
GEF O
PERATIONAL 
P
ROGRAM
:
OP 7 
C
OUNCIL 
A
PPROVAL 
D
ATE
:
May 1999 
C
OUNCIL 
A
PPROVED 
A
MOUNT
*: 43.2 M 
CEO E
NDORSEMENT 
A
MOUNT
*:43.2 M 
E
STIMATED 
S
TARTING 
D
ATE
:
February 2007 
 
PROJECT EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
39070 
R
EQUEST FOR 
CEO E
NDORSEMENT
 
FINANCING PLAN ($)
 
PDF Project 
A
B
GEF 
 
C
700,000
43,200,000
GEF Total 
700,000
43,200,000
Co-financing 
(provide details in Section b: Co-
financing) 
GEF  
IA/ExA
 
O.N.E. 
     
16,280,000
AfDB 
     
160,130,000
Co-financing 
Total 
176,410,000
Total 700,000
219,610,000
Financing for Associated Activities If 
Any:       
Approved on behalf of the 
World Bank
.
This proposal has been prepared in accordance with GEF 
policies and procedures and meets the standards of the GEF Project Review Criteria for CEO 
endorsement. 
 
Steve Gorman 
GEF Executive Coordinator 
 
Elsie Garfield 
Project Contact Person 
Date: November 15, 2006 
Tel. and email:202 473 5007   
egarfield@worldbank.org 
Page  2
CEO Endorsement Template: 
 
September 2006
 
2
1. 
FINANCING 
 
a) Financing Plan 
 
Sources of Fund
 
Classification 
Amount ($) 
GEF Grant 
43200000
Bilateral/Multi-lateral donors 
160130000
Implementing/Executing Agency 
16280000
Total Sources of Funds 
219610000
Uses of Fund
 
Project Components/Outcomes 
GEF ($) 
Co-financing ($)
 
Total ($) 
EPC cum O&M contract 
43200000
142190000
185390000
Transmission lines 
11240000
11240000
Substations 
9040000
9040000
Access Road 
3800000
3800000
Boreholes 
350000
350000
Land acquisition 
870000
870000
Gas pipeline 
1510000
1510000
Environment and social dev. & Mangt 
2310000
2310000
Consulting services 
5090000
5090000
Total Uses of Funds 
43200000
176410000
219610000
b) 
Co-financing 
(indicate if cash or in-kind) 
 
Name of Co-financiers 
(source) 
Classification Type 
At Work 
Program 
(million $) 
At CEO 
Endorsement 
($ million)* 
IA Multilat. 
Agency 
Cash 
0,35 
0 
Other International 
Multilat. Agency 
Cash 
0.53 
0 
Government 
Nat’l government 
Cash 
0.18 
0 
Private sector 
Private sector 
Cash 
69.40 
0 
O.N.E. 
Exec. Agency 
Cash 
      
16.28 
African Development 
Bank 
Multilat. Agency 
Cash 
      
160.13 
Total Co-financing 
70.46 
176.41 
*
Reflect the final commitment amount of co-financiers and attach documents from co-financiers confirming co-
financing commitments.   Describe any difference of final commitment compared to those expressions of interest 
at concept stage or at work program inclusion. 
 
Page  3
CEO Endorsement Template: 
 
September 2006
 
3
2. 
RESPONSE TO REVIEWS 
 
a) C
OUNCIL
 
The replicability is considered very high but I feel that this is too optimistic given the low 
fossil fuel prices. As the STAP review suggests, the costs per ton CO2 emissions avoided are over 
US$170 and thus extremely high. The capital costs are also very high and it is debatable whether 
a
substantial decrease would be possible. In this respect, I would like to note that the GEF 
response to the STAP Technical Review is acceptable except the point on the likely medium to 
longer term cost reductions which can be expected for this technology.. From the point of view of 
GEF procedures and criteria, there is no reason to withhold approval of the project.  
The 
Council comment was made in 1999 when oil prices were low.  The picture has since 
dramatically changed with persistently high oil prices.  The price of oil has more than doubled 
between 2000 and 2006 by moving from $30 a barrel in 2000 to about $70 a barrel in 2006.  As 
more ISCC power plants come on stream, the high capital cost is likely to go down due to 
learning and economies of scale.  The prospects of capital cost reduction are analyzed in a recent 
study
1
undertaken by the World Bank GEF Program which is summarized in Annex 18 of the 
Project Document.  The three projects being supported by GEF are not an isolated experience, as 
other projects are being developed worldwide.  For example, Algeria has recently signed a 
contract with a Spanish firm to build, own and operate a hybrid solar combined cycle power 
plant and several ISCC plants are under development in Spain.  Many factors have an effect on 
the cost of power: plant configuration, including size, location, solar resource, financing 
structure, and tax incentives.  While, for example, increasing plant size offers the easiest 
opportunity for reducing the cost of power, there are a number of technological advances that are 
coming on stream that can also reduce costs significantly such as increasing the collector size (if 
sufficient land is available) and improvements in receiver coatings, etc.  (paras. A2 and B6, and 
Annex 18 of the GEF Project Document, pp. 8-9).    
 
Providing a 40% contribution for a plant with a capacity of 150 MW seems incompatible 
with the general guidelines for government intervention in the electric power sector.  OECD 
members as a whole have ceased to develop such plants, because individual countries cannot 
afford them.  The plants are likely to prove economically non-viable in light of current prices per 
barrel and probable price trends over the next 10 years.  Consequently, the World Bank should 
provide further justifications and arguments in support of its decision, and a project such as this 
needs to be modified, because as it stands it has more to do with very long-term research than 
with the development of a beneficiary country.  
The size of the plant is 227 MW and is co-
financed by O.N.E., the African Development Bank (AfDB) and GEF.  Their respective share in 
the financing of the project is 7, 73 and 20 percent.  OECD countries such as Spain and the 
United States are developing solar thermal as well as hybrid solar thermal combined cycle power 
plants.  As stated earlier, the current price of the barrel of oil is quite high and the latest price 
projections predict that they will remain high.  Furthermore, the solar thermal and the combined 
cycle power technologies are well proven and in use in several parts of the world.  Their 
integration does not pose a special technical problem and the technology is well past the research
 
stage. The technology is slowly being integrated in power sector expansion plans. As already 
1
World Bank GEF Program: 
Assessment of the World Bank/GEF Strategy for the Market Development of 
Concentrating Solar Thermal Power, 
Washington D.C. 2006 
Page  4
CEO Endorsement Template: 
 
September 2006
 
4
mentioned, Algeria has recently signed a contract with a Spanish firm for an IPP based on the 
hybrid integrated solar combined cycle power technology.  (para. 3 of the GEF Project 
Document,  pp.4)  
 
Solar thermal power has been proven technologically viable in California (about 354 
MW installed and
 operated since the mid 80’s which compares to the total 120 NEW SPV 
potential production per year. There it serves as a peak generation power production (cooling 
loads are maximum during  day). Its cost per unit of peak power installed is significantly less 
than Solar Photovoltaic. For various reasons, this technology has not been replicated on a large 
scale in recent years. There are various developments at research stage for different 
technologies of solar thermal based power generation as well as system integration.  
 
Solar thermal power generation is a very promising technology for the 21st Century. 
 
Main Concerns 
 
1) Fossil fuel cost: 
 
·
Located on the gas pipeline, the gas is actually extremely cheap. The incentive to run a 
solar plant are somewhat artificial. A contract will define conditions for the minimal 
solar output to be met. With the present political willingness, it may work fine, but it may 
change.  
As stressed earlier, oil prices are high and rising and there is therefore a very 
strong incentive to maximize generation from the solar component.  Furthermore, there 
are penalties in the EPC cum O&M contract for not meeting target generation from the 
solar component (Para. B4 and B5 of the GEF Project Document, pp. 6 and 8).  As part of 
the bidding process, firms are obligated to fill out and submit a detailed technical and 
financial model that includes penalties for not meeting operating and performance targets 
for the solar component).  
 
2
)
Site selection: 
 
·
The foreseen location shows about 20-25 % less solar irradiation than the optimal sites 
in Morocco. Even if preliminary studies show that the site is optimal, it would be of 
interest to reconsider that when performing a detailed feasibility study.  No integration of 
the power plant with any large scale industry requiring heating/cooling has been 
mentioned.  
The pre-feasibility study financed by the European Community (EC) 
provided the economic analysis for the 11 alternatives studied at the Jerada and Ain Beni 
Mathar sites. The alternative at Ain Beni Mathar (about 80 km south of Oujda), which 
provided the lowest levelized tariff and the highest rate of return, was selected. The 
selection also included criteria about the sun level, the availability of cooling water, and 
the location with regards to the electricity grid and gas network.  The solar field is 
integrated with a combined cycle power plant to produce more electricity to feed into the 
grid to satisfy demand. (para. B6, pp.8 of the GEF Project Document).  The solar thermal 
technology could be used separately (i.e. without the combined cycle power plant) to 
supply industries requiring heating or cooling in their process.  This is however not the 
case in this project.  The main purpose of the heat generated by the solar field of the 
Morocco Integrated Solar Combined Cycle Power Plant is to generate electricity.  This 
Page  5
CEO Endorsement Template: 
 
September 2006
 
5
electricity is fed into the national grid and used by a variety of domestic, commercial and 
industrial users and is not intended to meet a specific industry’s requirements.
 
3) Information exchange:  
 
·
For a project of this size, and with such GEF contribution, no systematic exchange of 
information has been described (to the knowledge of reader).  There are other similar 
projects in the pipeline (India, Egypt, …) which would ideally be coordinated with this 
one. For practical reasons (different national mechanisms) it may be difficult to do so, 
but at least monitoring and lessons learned out of the various projects should-be shared.
 
Dissemination of experience and lessons learned and encouraging the sharing of 
knowledge about the construction and operation of the proposed Morocco Integrated 
Solar Combined Cycle Power Plant is at the heart of the comprehensive monitoring and 
evaluation plan, including quantitative and qualitative indicators, that has been put in 
place. (Paras. B2 and B3, pp. 5 and 6; Para C3, pp. 10 and 11, and Annex 3, pp. 29, 30 
and 31 of the GEF Project Document).
.
Furthermore, the three Bank teams involved in 
the preparation of the Mexico, Egypt and Morocco projects are closely working together 
and exchanging their respective experience as they prepare these projects for GEF 
approval. 
 
4) Technological choice, bidding process: 
 
·
The technological choice will be left to the project developer. This bears an important 
risk.  The normal procedure is to award the contract to the lowest bid. In such a project, 
and depending on the technical options, the lowest bid may not be the best choice. 
 The 
bidding for the project was done in two stages: In the first stage, bidders responded to 
broad specifications of the desired power plant.  A conference was held with the bidders 
at the end of which new specifications, representing a broad consensus, were issued to 
bidders who were invited to submit technical and commercial proposals for the second 
stage. Concerning the contract award, the normal procedure is to award the contract to the 
lowest 
evaluated
bid.  This means, in particular, that the bid with the lowest price will 
not necessarily be awarded the contract because there are technical and commercial 
conditions to be met as well.  Therefore, having the lowest price is no guarantee that a bid 
will win a contract. (Para. A2,  pp. 3 and B6 of the GEF Project Document, pp. 9)
 
5) Impact in the region:  
 
A
project of this size should not hamper the development of other smaller scale initiatives 
in the same technology. Integration of power plant with industrial processes even though 
difficult at a  large scale present a bright future for solar thermal power generation with 
cogeneration applications. 
We agree with the Council 
member’s concern that the project 
should not hamper the development of other smaller scale initiatives using the same 
technology.  However, we do not, for our part, see a crowding out of smaller uses of the 
technology which is at a very early stage of development in Morocco.  We also agree 
with Council that the integration of solar thermal with a combined cycle power plant to 
produce more electricity is only a first step in the use of a very promising technology. 
Page  6
CEO Endorsement Template: 
 
September 2006
 
6
b) R
EVIEW BY EXPERT FROM 
STAP R
OSTER 
 
“
……the O&M contract should contain appropriate incentive structure for both maximizing 
the total plan reliability as well as maximizing the utilization of the solar field over the long 
term.  The PAD only discusses the latter issue, but the O&M contract will need to address 
both issues…”
 
See Section B. Para. 4 and 5 of the GEF Project Document
.
Please see also 
our answer to the council member’s concern on fossil fuel cost above. 
 
“
……
Finally, the use of only pre-qualified bidders is likely to allow the selected EPC 
contractor and key suppliers to capture technology and organizational learning effects that 
are essential to achieving long-
term cost reductions for solar thermal power.”  
See
 
Section 
C.  Replicability.  Long-term cost reductions in solar thermal power will result from three 
factors:  reduced component costs due to increased manufacturing volume, economies of 
scale from increased plant size, and technological improvements.  The experience gained by 
one EPC contractor has a minor effect on competition and cost reduction over the long term. 
 
“
……One question that this reviewer could not assess from the PAD is whether the bidder 
prequalification includes the potential manufacturers of the solar collectors and heat 
collection elements.”
 
The prequalification of consortia that have both combined cycle and 
solar thermal power experience ensures the effective integration of the solar field and the 
combined cycle power plant.  Section A. Para 2 and Section B, Para. 4
.
“
….
As the technology selection will be left to the EPC Bidders, who will all be pre-
qualified, the bid documents must establish minimum requirements for the solar thermal 
steam raising component to ensure that the minimum solar share target can be met.  Effective 
integration of the steam systems for the solar thermal field and the gas-fired combined cycle 
plant is essential to achieving significant cost reductions and proper performance of the 
power plant.”   
Section B. Para. 4.   Please see also our answers
 to the council member’s 
concern on fossil fuel cost and to STAP reviewer’s question 12 below. 
 
“
….. The selection process should review plant designs to ensure that the plant operates 
effectively in all modes. In particular, integration and control of the system should allow the 
solar contribution to be consistently maximized.  In addition, the system should allow power 
to be efficiently generated on natural gas only, if required (during nighttime or if the solar 
field is not operational).”   
Included in the bidding documents and the Engineer, Procure 
and Construct (EPC) and Operation and Maintenance (O&M) contract.  
 
“
…
…
the O&M contract should contain appropriate incentive structure for both 
maximizing the total plant reliability as well as maximizing the utilization of the solar field 
over the long term. “ See 
Section B. Para. 4 and 5, pp. 6 and 8 of the GEF  Project 
Document.
 
Please see also our answer to the council member’s concern on fossil fuel cost 
above. 
 
“
…
…..strong importance needs to be placed on training of O.N.E. power plant staff in the 
requisite skills for operating and maintaining an ISCC power plant during the construction and 
initial operation of the plant.”
 
We agree.  A strong emphasis has been placed on O.N.E
.’s staff 
training in various aspects of the ISCC technology and an indicator has been included in the 
Page  7
CEO Endorsement Template: 
 
September 2006
 
7
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) plan
.
Staff training is included in the EPC cum O&M 
contract
.
Section B. Para. 3 and 4, and Annex 3. 
 
“
…
…
In addition, successful implementation of the Project should provide local 
manufacturing and job opportunities within the region,”   
Agree.  The project provides jobs and 
economic activities in the region.  The development of local manufacturing should be left to the 
private sector and is likely to evolve over time. 
 
3. 
MAJOR CHANGE SINCE WORK PROGRAM ENTRY
 
The project was approved in May 1999 as an independent power producer (IPP) scheme.  
The major change that has occurred is that following an unsatisfactory response to a competitive 
bid for an IPP, Morocco
’
s
public power utility decided to finance the integrated solar thermal 
combined cycle power plant itself through an Engineer, Procure and Construct (EPC) cum 
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) contract.  The actors have therefore changed and so have the 
scope and the cost of the project.  The capacity to be installed at work program was 150 MW.  
Demand for electricity has increased substantially since then and the new capacity of the 
combined cycle power plant is now 227 MW.  The total cost of the project has nearly doubled.  It 
was expected to be $114.36 million at work program entry, and it is now estimated at $219.61 
million.  The co-financing from other sources has more than doubled.  It was estimated at $70.46 
million at work program.  It is now about $176.4 million.   
 
4.
 
REQUIRED ATTACHMENTS 
 
a)  Project Appraisal Document 
b)  Confirmed letters of commitments from co-financiers (with English translations)
 
