Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF GRANT NUMBER  TF058314 -MOR 
 
Global Environment Facility  
Trust Fund
 
Grant Agreement 
 
(Integrated Solar Thermal Combined Cycle Power Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
and 
 
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L’ELECTRICITE 
 
Dated  April 20, 2007 
 
Page  2
Page  3
GEF TF GRANT NUMBER  TF058314-MOR 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY  
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated April 20, 2007, entered into between OFFICE NATIONAL 
DE L’ELECTRICITE (“Recipient”); and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“World Bank”), acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (“GEF”). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the World Bank to assist in the financing of Part A of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Recipient intends to contract from the African Development Bank 
(the AfDB) a loan in an amount equivalent to two hundred thirty million United States 
Dollars ($230,000,000) (the Second AfDB Cofinancing) to assist in financing the Project 
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and AfDB;  
 
(C) 
by an agreement dated August 29, 2005 between the Recipient and AfDB 
(the AfDB Loan Agreement), AfDB has agreed to make a loan to the Recipient in an 
amount equivalent to one hundred sixty million United States Dollars ($160,000,000) 
(the First AfDB Cofinancing) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the AfDB Loan Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the World Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants made by the World Bank out of Various 
Funds, dated July 20, 2006 (“Standard Conditions”), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
this Agreement, and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
Page  4
-
2
-
(a) 
 “Basic Legislation” means the Law (Dahir) No. 6-63-226 (14 Rabiaah 1, 
1383), dated August 13, 1963, as amended to the date of this Agreement, 
pursuant to which the Recipient has been established and is operating as 
an industrial and commercial public institution;  
(b) 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Consortium” means the contracting party with whom the Recipient has 
entered into the EPC/O&M Contract (as this term is hereinafter defined), 
and any successor thereto; 
(d) 
“EPC/O&M Contract” means the engineering, production and 
construction, and operation and maintenance contract to be executed on 
behalf of the Recipient and the Consortium for purposes of carrying out 
Part A of the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the World 
Bank and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank, as 
such contract may be amended from time to time with the prior approval 
of the World Bank, and such term shall include all schedules, annexes 
and supplemental contracts to said contract; 
(e) 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan dated 
 
May 25, 2006, duly adopted by the Recipient and satisfactory to the 
World Bank, that is set forth in the Environmental Assessment (as this 
term is hereinafter defined), consisting of an environmental mitigation 
plan, an environmental monitoring plan and related institutional 
strengthening measures in respect of the carrying out of the Project, as 
such Plan may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of 
the World Bank; 
(f) 
“Environmental Assessment” or “EA” means the environmental 
assessment report dated April 9, 2007, prepared by the Recipient and 
satisfactory to the World Bank, as the same may be amended from time 
to time by agreement between the Recipient and the World Bank, in 
accordance with certain institutional, mitigation and monitoring 
measures to offset or reduce adverse environmental impacts to 
acceptable levels, which Assessment includes the Environmental 
Management Plan; 
(g) 
“ISCC” means the Integrated Solar Combined Cycle Power Plant of Ain 
Beni Mathar to be developed under Part A of the Project; 
(h) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the World Bank in May 
2004;  
Page  5
-
3
-
(i) 
“Project Affected Person” or “PAP” means a person who, on account of 
the execution of the Project, has experienced or would experience direct 
economic and social impacts caused by the involuntary taking of land 
resulting in: (A) relocation or loss of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access 
to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or means of livelihood; 
(j) 
“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means the resettlement action plan 
dated June 1, 2006, prepared by the Recipient and satisfactory to the 
World Bank, including any subsequent resettlement action plan to be 
prepared by the Recipient pursuant to paragraph 2(c), Section I of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
World Bank, in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework (as 
this term is hereinafter defined), as such Plan may be amended from time 
to time with the prior approval of the World Bank; and 
(k) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the resettlement 
policy framework dated July 17, 2006, duly adopted by the Recipient and 
satisfactory to the World Bank, setting forth certain rules, procedures and 
guidelines for: (i) the acquisition of land and/or assets from PAPs;  
(ii) resettlement and rehabilitation of PAPs and the compensation 
thereof, including the requirements for the preparation of RAPs and the 
eligibility criteria for granting assistance and rehabilitation to PAPs; and 
(iii) the monitoring and reporting arrangements in relation to sub-
paragraphs (i) and (ii) hereinabove to ensure compliance with said 
Framework, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
prior approval of the World Bank, which Framework includes the 
Resettlement Action Plan.  
ARTICLE II 
 
The Project 
 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  To this end, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the 
Standard Conditions, the EA, the EMP, the RPF and the relevant RAPs, and 
provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
ARTICLE III 
 
The Grant 
 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to forty 
three million two hundred thousand United States Dollars ($43,200,000) 
(“Grant”) to assist in financing Part A of the Project. 
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Remedies 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02(i) of the 
Standard Conditions consist of the following:   
 
(a) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation has arisen that makes it 
improbable that the Recipient will be able to perform its obligations 
under this Agreement; 
(b) 
the Basic Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the Recipient’s ability 
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement;  
 
(c) 
the EPC/O&M Contract has been amended or terminated so as to affect 
materially and adversely the Recipient’s ability to carry out the Project; 
and 
 
(d) 
(i) Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right to 
withdraw the proceeds of the First AfDB Cofinancing has been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the AfDB Loan Agreement; (B) the First AfDB Cofinancing has 
become due and payable prior to its agreed maturity; or (C) the Second 
AfDB Cofinancing has failed to become effective. (ii) Sub-paragraph (i) 
of this paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient establishes to the 
satisfaction of the World Bank that: (A) the suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring of the First AfDB Cofinancing was not 
caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations 
under the AfDB Loan Agreement, or, failure of the Second AfDB 
Cofinancing to become effective does not affect the Recipient’s ability to 
Page  7
-
5
-
carry out the Project, as the case may be; and (B) adequate funds for the 
Project are available from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the Recipient’s obligations under this Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration are that the events specified in  
Section 4.01 of this Agreement occur. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
5.01.  
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the 
World Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the conditions specified 
below have been satisfied: 
 
(a) 
the execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient 
have been duly authorized in accordance with the Basic Legislation; 
(b) 
the Recipient has employed an engineering expert responsible for 
supervising the construction of the ISCC plant, on the basis of terms of 
reference satisfactory to the World Bank; and  
(c) 
the EPC/O&M Contract has been duly executed by the Recipient and the 
Consortium. 
5.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01(a), there shall be 
furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the World Bank 
of counsel acceptable to the World Bank showing, on behalf of the Recipient, that 
this Agreement has been duly authorized by, and executed and delivered on its 
behalf and is legally binding upon it in accordance with its terms.  
 
5.03. 
Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this Agreement 
shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank dispatches to the 
Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required pursuant to Section 5.01 
(“Effective Date”).  If, before the Effective Date, any event has occurred which 
would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account if this Agreement had been effective, the 
World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in this Section 
until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased to exist.  
 
5.04. 
This Agreement and all obligations of the parties under it shall terminate if it has 
not entered into effect by the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of 
this Agreement, unless the World Bank, after consideration of the reasons for the 
delay, establishes a later date for the purpose of this Section. The World Bank shall 
promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
Page  8
-
6
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Recipient’s Representative; Addresses 
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the Director General of the Recipient. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
Office National de l’Electricité 
65 rue Othman Ben Affan 
20000 Casablanca 
Kingdom of Morocco 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(212) 22-66-80-18 
 
6.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
7
-
AGREED at Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
OFFIC
E
NATIONAL DE L’ELECTRICITE 
 
By /s / Youness Maamar 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the  
 
Global Environment Facility 
 
By / s / Ferid Belhaj 
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to support the Recipient in increasing its power 
generation capacity, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and promoting renewable energy 
sources in the Kingdom of Morocco through the development of an integrated solar 
combined cycle power plant in Ain Beni Mathar. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the World Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective. 
Part A
:
Design, Construction and Operation of an Integrated Solar Combined Cycle 
Power Plant
Design, construction and operation of an ISCC power plant with a capacity of 
about 472 MWe, comprising gas turbines, a steam turbine, a parabolic trough solar field 
with a capacity of about 20 MWe and ancillary plant operation facilities, including proper 
operation and maintenance of said plant. 
Part B
:
Transmission Lines, Substation, Other Infrastructure, Environmental Mitigation 
and Technical Assistance
1.  
Construction of: (a) two (2) transmission lines; (b) one substation; (c) an access 
road of approximately six (6) kilometers to link the ISCC power plant to the main 
road from Oujda to Bouarfa, including two (2) bridges to be built over the Charef 
and Tabouda oueds; (d) a gas spur of about 13km from the Maghreb-Europe gas 
pipeline; and (e) boreholes. 
2. 
(a) Acquisition of about 160 hectares of land for the construction and operation 
of the ISCC power plant; (b) acquisition of about 18 hectares of land for the 
construction of the gas spur of about 13km from the Maghreb-Europe gas 
pipeline; and (c) acquisition of about 25 hectares of land for the construction of 
an access road of approximately six (6) kilometers to link the ISCC power plant 
to the main road from Oujda to Bouarfa, including two (2) bridges to be built 
over the Charef and Tabouda oueds. 
3. 
Carrying out of social and environmental mitigation, monitoring and evaluation 
measures for the implementation of the Project. 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance services to supervise the construction of the 
ISCC power plant. 
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Environmental and social safeguard measures
1. 
In carrying out the Project, the Recipient shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
all land acquisition required for the purposes of carrying out any works 
under the Project, and activities related to the resettlement, rehabilitation 
and compensation of PAPs in connection with such works, will be 
completed prior to the carrying out of such works and in accordance with 
the provisions set forth in the EA, EMP, the RPF and the relevant RAPs 
in a manner satisfactory to the World Bank; and 
 
(b) 
the RPF and related safeguard policies shall uniformly apply to all 
components of the Project that result in involuntary resettlement and/or 
land acquisition, regardless of the source of financing.  
 
2. 
(a) 
the Environmental Assessment, the EMP, the RPF and the RAPs shall 
not be amended, revised, or abrogated without the prior approval of the 
World Bank;  
 
(b) 
prior to the carrying out of any Project activities not identified, assessed, 
nor included in the Environmental Assessment or EMP, such activities 
shall be subject to an environmental assessment, under terms of reference 
and in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank; and 
 
(c) 
land acquisition activities under the Project which have not been 
identified, assessed, nor included in a RAP or RPF shall be subject to an 
environmental and social assessment under terms of reference and in 
form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank. 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project (including 
compliance with the EA, the EMP, the RPF and the RAPs) and, commencing on 
June 29, 2007, prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed 
with the World Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than one month after 
the end of the period covered by such report. 
Page  12
-
10
-
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions.  The Rec
ipient’s 
Completion Report shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than  
six (6)
 
months after the Closing Date. 
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than one month after the 
end of each calendar semester, covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the World Bank. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07(b) of the Standard Conditions.  
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal 
year of the Recipient. The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of 
such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 Procurement 
Guidelines. 
 
All goods and works required for Part A of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I (excluding 
paragraph 1.16) of the Procurement Guidelines and the provisions of this  
Section III. 
2. 
Definitions.
 The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
International Competitive Bidding.
 The EPC/O&M Contract shall be awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
 
Page  13
-
11
-
C.
 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the EPC/O&M Contract to be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding shall be subject to Prior Review by the World Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and  
(c) such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the 
Recipient
 (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures consisting of goods, works, including installation works and 
services for the EPC/O&M Contract as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the category of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amount of the Grant allocated to said Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in said Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(Expressed in USD) 
Percentage of expenditures 
to be Financed 
(Inclusive of Taxes) 
1. Goods, works, including 
installation works and 
services for the EPC/O&M 
Contract  
43,200,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
43,200,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: (a) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) for any 
expenditures under the Grant unless the Recipient shall have first submitted to 
the World Bank, evidence, satisfactory to the World Bank, confirming that 
Project Affected Persons under Parts A, B(1)(d) and B(2)(b) of the Project have 
been properly compensated in accordance with the RPF and the RAPs, as the 
case may be.   
Page  14
-
12
-
2.
 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06(c) of the Standard Conditions is 
December 31, 2012. 
Page  15
-
13
-
wb77754 
M:\legmn\MOROCCO\GEF\Integrated Solar thermal\GEF-GA (Board).doc 
04/13/2007 4:34:00 PM
 
