                                       Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR2693



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (TF-58314)

                                         ON A

                                        GRANT

                 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 43.2 MILLION
         FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

                                        TO THE

   OFFICE NATIONAL DE L’ELECTRICITE ET DE L’EAU POTABLE (ONEE)

                        OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                        FOR AN

          INTEGRATED SOLAR COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT

                                      June 25, 2013




Sustainable Development department
Energy and Environment unit
Middle East and North Africa region
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective April 19, 2013)
                       Currency Unit = Morocco Dirham (MAD)
                                 MAD 8.52 = US$ 1
                                 Euro 1 = US$ 1.29

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 – December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABM    Ain Beni Mathar                      kV          Kilovolt
AfDB   African Development Bank             kWh         Kilowatt hour
ASME   American Society of Mechanical       LCOE        Levelized Cost of Electricity
       Engineers
CC     Combined-Cycle                       MASEN       Moroccan Agency for Solar Energy
CSP    Concentrated Solar Power             MMBtu       Million British Thermal Unit
DLR    German Aerospace Center              MNA         Middle-East and North Africa
DNI    Direct Normal Irradiation            MWh         Megawatt hour
DPL    Development Policy Loan              NPV         Net Present Value
DSM    Demand Side Management               NREL        National Renewable Energy
                                                        Laboratory
EPC    Engineering Procurement              O&M         Operations and Maintenance
       Construction
GEF    Global Environment Facility          ONEE        Office National de l’Electricité et de
                                                        l’Eau Potable (Morocco National
                                                        Electricity and Water Utility)
GEO    Global Environmental Objective       PAD         Project Appraisal Document
GT     Gas Turbine                          PDO         Project Development Objective
GWh    Gigawatt hour                        PIU         Project Implementation Unit
HRSG   Heat recovery steam generator        PPA         Power Purchase Agreement
HTF    Heat Transfer Fluid                  STAP        Scientific and Technical Advisory
                                                        Panel
IBRD   International Bank for               ST          Steam Turbine
       Reconstruction and Development
ICR    Implementation Completion Report     UNFCCC      United Nations Framework
                                                        Convention on Climate Change
IPP    Independent Power Producer           US          United States
ISCC   Integrated Solar Combined Cycle
      Vice President:   Inger Andersen
    Country Director:   Simon Gray
     Sector Manager:    Charles J. Cormier
Project Team Leader:    Roger Coma-Cunill
   ICR Team Leader      Roger Coma-Cunill
                                           MOROCCO
                             Integrated Solar Combined Cycle Project



                                                  CONTENTS




 Data Sheet

  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Results Framework Analysis
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
  H. Restructuring
  I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 32
Annex 4. Technical Analysis ........................................................................................ 37
Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 47
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 49
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 50
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 51
Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 53
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 54

MAP
                                        Data Sheet

A. Basic Information
                                                                        INTEGRATED
                                                                        SOLAR COMBINED
Country:                Morocco                 Project Name:
                                                                        CYCLE POWER
                                                                        PROJECT
Project ID:             P041396                 L/C/TF Number(s):       TF-58314
ICR Date:               06/25/2013              ICR Type:               Core ICR
                                                                        GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                        MOROCCO
Original Total
                        USD 43.20M              Disbursed Amount:       USD 43.20M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 43.20M
Environmental Category: B                       Global Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies:
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       08/05/1998     Effectiveness:          12/31/2007           03/31/2008
Appraisal:            06/26/2006     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             04/19/2007     Mid-term Review:        04/10/2010
                                     Closing:                12/31/2012           12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome                                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                        Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                          Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                     Highly Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                         Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                                      No                                         Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                                      No                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                                 Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other Renewable Energy                                                 100              100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                          40                 40
Infrastructure services for private sector development                  20                 20
Technology diffusion                                                    40                 40

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Inger Andersen                      Daniela Gressani
Country Director:            Simon Gray                          Theodore O. Ahlers
Sector Manager:              Charles J. Cormier                  Jonathan D. Walters
Project Team Leader:         Roger Coma-Cunill                   Noureddine Bouzaher
ICR Team Leader:             Roger Coma-Cunill
ICR Primary Author:          Roger Coma-Cunill
F. Results Framework Analysis

Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)

The global environmental objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from
anthropogenic sources by increasing the market share of low greenhouse gas emitting
technologies. The project will also demonstrate the operational viability of hybrid solar
thermal power generation technology and contribute to replication of integrated solar
combined cycle (ISCC) power generation technology in Morocco and elsewhere through
the learning effects provided by its construction and operation, and through economies of
scale as use of the technology spreads. It is one of a number of similar projects in the
world supported by the Global Environment Facility (GEF), and by other financing
sources, as part of a global programmatic effort to accelerate cost reduction and
commercial adoption of large-scale low greenhouse emitting generation technologies.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target        Formally        Actual Value
                                                  Values (from           Revised         Achieved at
       Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                    approval             Target         Completion or
                                                  documents)             Values         Target Years
Reductions in CO2
                                    0                 24,300             24,300              22,9881
emission (tons/year)
Solar Thermal Power
                                    0                   17.4               17.4               24.42
Plant costs in ¢/kWh
Number of visitors to
and information                     0                     -                  -                 440
requests about plant
Number of workshops
and conferences in
                                    0                     -                  -                  91
which experience of
plant is presented
Information about the
plant posted on                    No                   Yes                Yes                 Yes
ONEE’s website




1
  This value corresponds to the reductions of CO2 emissions (tons) in 2012, i.e. 0.59 (emissions coefficient)
* 38,963 MWhe (solar field generation). This value is slightly lower than target because energy production
from solar field was lower than the projected value (cf. footnote 4).
2
  The calculation methodology of this outcome indicator was not provided in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD), so it was assumed to be the levelized cost of electricity (see Annex 2).
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                                 Values (from                            Achieved at
          Indicator        Baseline Value                          Revised
                                                   approval                             Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                 documents)                             Target Years
ISCC’s yearly
generation of                      0                  3,538               3,538              3,3703
electricity (GWh)
ISCC’s yearly
generation of solar                0                    40                   40                394
electricity (GWh)
ONEE staff trained in
various aspects of                 0                    20                   20                20
ISCC technology
Solar output as
percentage of total
                                   0                   1.13               1.13                1.16
electricity produced by
ISCC power plant
Share of ISCC energy
in total electricity               0                   16.8               16.8               10.85
production (%)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                          Actual
           Date ISR
    No.                            GEO                            IP                  Disbursements
           Archived
                                                                                      (USD millions)
     1     06/18/2007           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       0.00
     2     11/27/2007           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       0.00
     3     07/09/2008           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     43.20
     4     12/18/2008           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     43.20
     5     09/29/2009           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     43.20
     6     09/25/2012           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     43.20


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




3
  It should be noted that the ISCC plant guaranteed an electricity production of 3,781 GWh, well above the
3,370 GWh corresponding to the actual electricity demand from the system operator.
4
  The Direct Normal Irradiation (DNI) for 2012 is about 12% lower than the reference year. Since the solar
field was sized based on the reference year, it would be expected that the annual solar field thermal output
would be lower accordingly.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

  1.    At appraisal, Morocco’s electricity demand was increasing rapidly at 8% per year
due to strong economic growth 5 , a growing population and successful policies for
increasing electricity access. Despite intensified electricity conservation and demand side
management (DSM) efforts, electricity demand was expected to continue growing at that
rate for the foreseeable future. Moreover, the country was largely dependent on imported
fossil fuels for power generation due to lack of endogenous resources. Morocco’s total
energy bill had increased from US$ 3 billion in 2004 to US$ 4.2 billion in 2005 due to
the rise in the prices of oil and coal. To reduce this dependence, the Government of
Morocco had actively been seeking to diversify the country’s energy mix with a larger
use of natural gas and renewable energies. Morocco had already commissioned its first
gas-fired combined cycle power plant at Tahaddart6 in 2005 and had a few wind and
hydro projects, but did not have any experience on utility-scale solar technology.

 2.    On the international scene, the Government of Morocco was deeply committed
with the global efforts to combat climate change. In 1995, Morocco ratified the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and hosted its seventh
Conference of the Parties in November 2001. On January 25, 2002, Morocco ratified the
Kyoto Protocol.

  3.     The Global Environment Facility (GEF) had identified solar thermal power
technology as one of its priorities because of the technology’s significant cost reduction
potential. The GEF and the Bank built a portfolio of four demonstration projects to
facilitate the commercialization of solar thermal technology under GEF’s Operational
Program 7 “Reducing the long-term costs of low greenhouse-gas emitting technologies?.
The objective was to contribute to the global learning of the technology in order to drive-
down its costs to commercially competitive levels through economies of scale and
innovation. By appraisal, the GEF pipeline using this technology consisted of a project in
India (later dropped) from 1996, the Morocco-Ain Beni Mathar and Mexico-Agua Prieta
from 1999 and the Egypt-Kureimat project from 2004. The Moroccan government seized
the opportunity offered by the GEF support program to cover the incremental cost of an
expensive solar thermal technology7 to access the country’s unexploited solar resources.




5
  5.4% per year due to reforms introduced to increase the economy’s overall productivity. Source:
International Monetary Fund, Morocco: Article IV Consultation Discussions, June 2007.
6
  The 385 MW combined-cycle power plant at Tahaddart was commissioned in March 26, 2005. The gas
for the plant was supplied from the Maghreb-Europe pipeline, sharing the same gas with the Ain Beni
Mathar ISCC plant. Morocco benefited from an arrangement whereby the country could extract up to 7% of
all gas wheeled from Algeria via Morocco to Spain and Portugal.
7
  The 9 solar plants with a total of 354 MW composing the Solar Energy Generating Systems (SEGS) in
California’s Mojave desert were the only CSP plants in operation in the world at that time.
                                                  1
  4.   The configuration integrating solar and combined cycle (ISCC) technology was
chosen in these projects because it offered several cost and operational advantages over
independent solar thermal plants that made them more suitable for introducing solar-
generated electricity in developing countries.

  5.   The Bank fully supported GEF’s strategic objective to reduce, over the long term,
the costs of low-carbon energy technologies. The Bank had engaged in an intensive
policy dialogue with the Government of Morocco and ONEE on energy issues after years
of inaction in the country’s energy sector. The Bank was in an advanced stage of
preparation of an energy development policy loan (DPL), which had synergies with the
proposed ISCC project in Ain Beni Mathar.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators

  6.    The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) states that the project development
objective (PDO) was “to increase the contribution of renewable energy sources in
Morocco’s energy mix and add capacity to the power grid to help cope with the sustained
growth in electricity demand?.

  7.    The project’s global environmental objective (GEO) was to “reduce greenhouse
gas emissions from anthropogenic sources by increasing the market share of low
greenhouse gas emitting technologies?. As part of the GEO, the PAD also stated that “the
project will demonstrate the operational viability of hybrid solar thermal power
generation technology and contribute to replication of integrated solar combined cycle
(ISCC) power generation technology in Morocco and elsewhere through the learning
effect provided by its construction and operation, and through economies of scale as use
of the technology spreads. It is one of a number of similar projects in the world to be
supported by GEF, and by other financing sources, as part of a global programmatic
effort to accelerate cost reduction and commercial adoption of large-scale low
greenhouse emitting generation technologies. Secondarily, the project will make a modest
direct contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions?.

  8.   The Grant Agreement (Schedule 1) combined the PDO and GEO and stated that
the project objective was “to support the Recipient in increasing its power generation
capacity, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and promoting renewable energy sources in
the Kingdom of Morocco through the development of an integrated solar combined cycle
power plant in Ain Beni Mathar?.

1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

 9.    The objective and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

  10. The main target beneficiaries were the citizens of Morocco who would reduce the
risk of blackouts with the addition of the ISCC plant in the system and would benefit

                                            2
from a more affordable non-carbon technology in the long term. The citizens of the city
of Ain Beni Mathar, Oujda and the Oriental region were expected to benefit in particular
from the project due to direct and indirect employment opportunities and increased
reliability of power supply.

1.5 Original Components

  11. The project was primarily designed to demonstrate the operational viability of
hybrid solar thermal power generation technology and contribute to its replication in
Morocco and throughout the world through the learning effect provided by its
construction and operation. Thus, the original components of the project were:

Component 1 – Design, construction and Operation of an Integrated Solar
Combined Cycle Power Plant

  12. This component was aimed at financing the construction and operation of a
pioneer hybrid Integrated Solar Combined Cycle Power Plant through an Engineering
Procurement Construction (EPC) contract and a 5-year Operations and Maintenance
(O&M) contract. The plant, with a net capacity of 472 Megawatts (MWe), consisted of
two gas turbines, two heat recovery steam generators (HRSG), one steam turbine and a
20 MWe parabolic trough solar field (see Annex 4 for details). There were no similar
plants (see Figure 1 below) in the world. Integrated Solar Combined Cycle (ISCC)
technology aimed to draw the environmental benefits of solar energy together with the
operational advantages of a 'conventional' gas turbine-steam turbine combined cycle plant,
a mature technology that was widely used worldwide. While the solar resource partially
substituted fossil fuels, the plant could also supply energy to the grid whenever it was
required.

  13. The development of parabolic trough concentrated solar power (CSP) technology
had stalled after the construction of nine plants with a total of 354 MW in the United
States (US) in the 80s. Hence, CSP technology did not exist in developing countries and
the integration of a solar field with a combined cycle island had not been built anywhere
yet. The US$ 43.2 million GEF grant was allocated to cover the incremental cost of the
plant arising from the addition of the solar field.

  14. From October 2010 (commissioning date) until November 2011, the plant
performed below expectations8 due to insufficient gas supply, an issue beyond ONEE’s
control. Since then, the plant has been performing satisfactorily and meeting almost all
performance targets (see Annexes 2 and 4 for details). Further evaluations will be


8
  In ISCC technology, the solar field can only operate when the gas-fired combined cycle island is
operating at least partially. When the combined cycle island is not operating, e.g. due to fuel shortage, the
solar field lies idle as well. If the solar island drives substantially less than 50% of the steam turbine, which
is the case in the Ain Beni Mathar ISCC, the solar energy alone is not enough to keep the steam turbine
operational. Steam turbine manufacturers recommend not to operate the turbine below a certain minimum
capacity (in general around 25% of the nameplate capacity) for performance and reliability reasons, i.e.
governor systems can be less stable at very low loads, risk of corrosion of blades and vibrations.
                                                       3
required in the future since complete performance data are only available for one year
(2012) at this point in time.

                          Figure 1- The ISCC plant in Ain Beni Mathar9




Component 2 – Construction of 225 kV and 60 kV power lines

  15. This component was aimed at financing two 225 Kilovolt (kV) transmission lines
that carry the power generated by the ISCC plant and one 60 kV back up transmission
line. The first 225 kV transmission line was planned to carry power to the existing Oujda
substation (110 km). The second 225 kV transmission line was to evacuate power to the
Bourdim substation (70 km). The 60 kV line (10 km) was conceived to provide a backup
power supply to the auxiliaries of the ISCC plant in case of emergency by connecting the
existing 60/225 kV substation of Ain Beni Mathar city to the plant.

Component 3 – Construction of a 225 kV substation

  16. This component was aimed at financing the construction of one 225 kV substation.
The substation was expected to be constructed next to the power plant to dispatch the
generated power via two 225 kV transmission lines, the first connecting the power plant
to the Oujda substation and the second to the Bourdim substation.




9
 Brakmann G., Badaoui N-E. (ONEE), Dolejsi M., Klingler R., “Construction of ISCC Ain Béni Mathar in
Morocco?, Fichtner/ONEE, 2010 SolarPACES, Perpignan, France.




                                                 4
Component 4 – Construction of an access road

  17. This component was aimed at financing a 6 km access road to link the ISCC plant
to the main road (Main road 19). Two bridges over the Charef and Tabouda rivers were
also constructed.

Component 5 – Boreholes

  18. This component was aimed at financing the drilling of two boreholes to pump
required groundwater from the aquifer located below the Ain Beni Mathar site for the
operation and maintenance of the plant, i.e., replenishment of the closed steam cycle,
human consumption and mirror cleaning. ONEE had received authorization to pump 3.1
million m3/year of water based on consumption estimates of a wet-cooling system.
However, ONEE chose a dry-cooling system, which reduced dramatically the plant’s
impact on the aquifer. The water consumption in 2012 has been 334,112 m3/year only.

Component 6 – Land acquisition

  19. This component was aimed at financing the acquisition of 203 hectares (ha) for
the project, including 160 ha for the ISCC plant (88 ha for the solar field), 6 ha for the
boreholes and water distribution, 31 ha for the gas spur from the Maghreb-Europe
pipeline to supply the power plant, and 6 ha for the access road.

Component 7 – Gas pipeline

  20. This component was aimed at financing the construction of a 13 km gas spur from
the Maghreb-Europe gas pipeline to the plant.

Component 8 – Environmental and Social Development and Management

  21. This component was aimed at financing a comprehensive monitoring and
evaluation program to disseminate the results and the lessons learned from the project,
the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and a capacity
building program to strengthen the capacity of ONEE to monitor EMP implementation.
This component was expected to support ONEE in the dissemination of lessons learned
about the project, which was key in the achievement of the project’s outcomes.

Component 9 – Consulting services for project management and supervision

  22. This component was aimed at financing the services of a consulting engineer to
support ONEE during the construction, testing and operation of the plant for the two-year
guarantee period.

1.6 Revised Components

 23.   The project components were not revised.


                                            5
1.7 Other significant changes

  24. The construction of the plant suffered from a 6-month delay due to force majeure
events such as severe flooding of project site, damage to collectors due to strong winds,
total loss of one transformer and fire in one turbine filter. All damages were financially
covered by the contractor’s insurance and were repaired or compensated within a few
weeks. Despite these incidents, the ISCC plant was constructed in 34 months.

                   The Ain Beni Mathar ISCC solar field – June 2012




                                            6
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

  25. Despite the long preparation process (over eight years10), the ISCC project in
Ain Beni Mathar was the first plant of its kind in operation in the world. As
explained in section 5.1, the pioneering nature of the project justified these delays. The
strong government and ONEE commitment and the determination of the Bank’s project
team led to a successful project design. The main reasons for project preparation delays
were the following:

            Change in project design: the project experienced two major changes affecting
             its design: (i) First, the project was originally proposed to be implemented by a
             project-financed Independent Power Producer (IPP). The GEF grant was
             planned to be disbursed in two-tranches, the first tranche to reimburse the IPP
             for some expenses incurred during the construction of the solar field, and the
             second, through an escrow account against agreed solar thermal output (kWh)
             during the life of the project11. In 2002, two calls for expressions of interest did
             not attract interest from the private sector due to market uncertainties and the
             lack of a long-term PPA. Interested parties were asked to bid for what was
             called “merchant plants?. They were supposed to build the plants first and look
             for buyers of the electricity later at a price to be negotiated after the plants
             would have been built. This scheme could work in a large and open market like
             the US, but it proved too risky for a project in Morocco, where there were very
             few potential buyers of electricity. Consequently no IPP company showed any
             interest. Following the unsatisfactory response to the bidding of an IPP, ONEE
             decided to finance the project itself and to launch a tender for an EPC
             (Engineering, Procurement and Construction, i.e. Turnkey contract) and a 5-
             year O&M contract in 2005; (ii) Second, ONEE decided to raise the capacity of
             the combined cycle island from 207 MW to 452 MW on May 2006 after the
             first phase of the two-stage bidding process to meet increasing electricity
             demand in view of unexpected serious delays in another planned combined
             cycle plant.

             Table 1 – Overview of changes in project design

                                       1998          2005          2006        2007-present
                 ISCC total
                                        150        200-250          472             472
               capacity (MW)
                Solar thermal
                                        45           20-30        20-30              20
               capacity (MW)
                 GEF grant
                                        50              50         49.6             43.2
                  (million)


10
     From Project Concept Note review meeting in August 5, 1998 until Board approval in April 19, 2007
11
     World Bank, “Project Concept Document, Morocco: Solar Based Thermal Power Plant?, July 22, 1998.
                                                    7
           Cancellation risk of GEF contribution: the possible cancellation of GEF
            financing for the solar component was taken into consideration in 2004 and
            2007 causing further delays in project preparation. In 2004, the Bank
            commissioned an independent assessment on the Bank/GEF strategy for
            developing CSP in response to GEF’s concerns over the slow progress in
            project preparation. The review underlined the strategic importance of World
            Bank/GEF support to this technology due to its large demonstration effect. In
            early 2007, the GEF Secretariat expressed concern about insufficient quality of
            the submitted Project Appraisal Document and about the reduction of solar field
            capacity from an initial 38-45 MW estimated in 1999 to 20 MW in 2007 as a
            result of bid award. The project team reviewed the Project Appraisal Document
            and justified the reduction in the solar field capacity based on sound technical
            data. The GEF approved the requested US$ 43.2 million grant one month prior
            to the Bank’s Board approval on April 2007, in keeping with normal GEF
            practice.

           Re-bidding of contract for ONEE’s engineering consultant: The recruitment of
            an engineering firm to assist ONEE in supervising project implementation was
            one of the effectiveness conditions of the GEF grant. The only shortlisted firm
            in the first bid was found to be ineligible to be awarded a World Bank-financed
            contract, so ONEE was requested to rebid the tender. The second attempt was
            successful and the contract was signed with the Fichtner consortium on March
            24, 2008. However, the re-bidding process delayed the project by ten months
            because it required two extensions of the grant effectiveness’ deadline, from
            May 20, 2007 to March 31, 2008.

       26. The project objectives were well aligned with GEF’s strategy and Morocco’s
     priorities. The project was part of a larger program financed by the Global
     Environment Facility (GEF) to allocate grants up to $50 million to four Integrated Solar
     Combined Cycle (ISCC) projects in Egypt, Morocco, Mexico and India with a total
     solar CSP capacity of 150 MW, which represented over 40% of the total CSP installed
     capacity at the time12. In doing so, the GEF13 and the World Bank saw an opportunity
     to encourage global deployment of CSP, a nascent carbon-free technology with
     potential for significant cost reductions through economies of scale and innovation. In
     addition to the cancellation of the India project, the solar components of the projects in
     Egypt (from 30 to 20 MWe, operational), Mexico (from 40 to 14 MWe, under
     construction) and Morocco (from 45 to 20 MWe, operational) were reduced during
     their preparation time for different reasons. The reduction of the GEF CSP portfolio to
     a total of 54 MWe (Egypt, Mexico and Morocco) together with the rapid growth of
     CSP technology worldwide, reduced the weight of the GEF portfolio over global CSP


12
   The 9 solar plants with a total of 354 MW composing the Solar Energy Generating Systems (SEGS) in
California’s Mojave desert were the only CSP plants in operation in the world.
13
   The project supported GEF’s objective OP7 which focused on the promotion of technologies which had
the potential to achieve “levelized energy costs to commercially competitive levels? through learning and
economies of scale.
                                                    8
     installed capacity to around 2.7%. Despite this reduction, GEF-financed ISCC projects
     in Egypt and Morocco had a strong demonstration effect for national and international
     stakeholders through visits on-site and exchange of information, which contributed to
     the development of the technology (see section 3.2 below). For Morocco, the ISCC
     design allowed the country to take a measured risk and test the feasibility of CSP in its
     generation system without hampering its twin objective of ensuring reliable electricity
     supply14.
                          Table 2 – Chronology of key solar CSP events

     Year                                                Facts

     1990         -   9 CSP plants are deployed in California, US with a total capacity of 354MW
     1991         -   Bankruptcy of the sole developer of parabolic trough technology slows down CSP
                      technology development
     2004         -   Construction of the first 150 kW Dish Stirling pilot plant at Sandia Labs, US and
                      deployment of pilot molten salt solar towers – Solar One and Solar Two
     2007         -   Introduction of feed-in tariff mechanisms in several European Union countries
                      contributes to foster deployment of CSP technology
                  -   Deployment of the first commercial solar tower plant (PS10) in Spain (10 MW)
                      and the large Nevada Solar One (64 MW) parabolic trough plant in the US marked
                      the beginning of CSP scale-up worldwide
Jan. 2008         -   Construction of the GEF ISCC plant starts (472 MW, including 20 MW solar CSP)
                      on site in Ain Beni Mathar, Morocco.
                  -   Construction of the GEF ISCC plant (140 MW, including 20 MW solar CSP) starts
                      on site in Kureimat, Egypt. _
     2008         -   Commissioning of the Andasol I plant (50MW) in Spain proving commercial
                      viability of CSP thermal storage system
     2009         -   CSP installed capacity worldwide reaches 600 MW with the commissioning of
                      further plants in Spain such as the solar tower PS20 (20MW), three 50 MW
                      parabolic trough plants (Puertollano, Andasol II and La Risca) and in the US, such
                      as the 5MW Sierra Sun Tower.
Oct. 2010         -   Commissioning of Ain Beni Mathar ISCC plant in Morocco
June 2011         -   Commissioning of Kureimat ISCC plant in Egypt
  2012            -   CSP installed capacity worldwide reaches 1.8 GW, mostly in Spain (1,331 MW)
                      and the US (518 MW). 94% of installed capacity is with parabolic trough
                      technology. An additional 6 - 20 GW of CSP capacity is under construction or
                      development.

 Source: World Bank based on AT Kearney, ESTELA, “Solar Thermal Electricity 2025?, June 2010; and
 IRENA, “Concentrating Solar Power?, Renewable Energy Technologies: cost analysis series, June 2012



  27. The project was a partnership between the Bank (IBRD), Global
Environment Facility (GEF), African Development Bank (AfDB) and ONEE, which
required strong coordination. All co-financiers participated in the financing of one
single contract for the design, construction, operations and maintenance of the 472 MW
ISCC plant, where the US$ 43.2 million GEF grant mobilized by the Bank (2007)
covered the incremental cost of the solar field. During the procurement process, a close



14
 Audinet P., März T., “Lessons for Solar Power Development from the World’s First Integrated Solar
Combined Cycle Project?, 2011.
                                                    9
coordination between the Bank, AfDB and ONEE was required. AfDB was the main co-
financier with one loan of Euro 136.45 million (2005) and another of Euro 151.14 million
(2008), totaling Euro 287.8 million. In 2009, ONEE obtained a loan of Euro 100 million
from Spain’s State financial agency, “Instituto de Crédito Official (ICO)? to finance its
contribution to the project.

  28. Key risks were identified and mitigation measures introduced properly in the
project design. The contribution of the solar CSP field to the total power generation of
the plant in Megawatt hours (MWh) was less than 1%. This small contribution posed the
risk that the plant operator could not maximize the solar island output while neglecting its
operations and maintenance. A mechanism composed of acceptance tests and penalties
based on guaranteed performance was introduced in the EPC and O&M contracts to
maximize the solar contribution and minimize performance risk. The fact of having only
one contractor for the solar field and the combined cycle island (and not two as in Egypt)
avoided potential differences between contractors related to key equipment that could
have an impact on the solar field performance15. Furthermore, ONEE’s inexperience in
this technology was addressed by hiring a reputable engineering company, Fichtner Solar,
as technical advisor, which ensured a sound technical design and on-the-job training for
ONEE staff.

  29. On October 2007, the Bank had an internal review to assess project preparation
and design in the framework of the Eighth Quality at Entry Assessment16. As explained
in section 5.1, the project was rated “Satisfactory? overall.

2.2 Implementation

  30. The technical advisor, Fichtner Solar, enhanced ONEE’s capacity during
project implementation by providing assistance in supervising the construction of
the plant and during acceptance tests at commissioning17. Fichtner Solar was present
on-site throughout the construction phase with a team of 3 to 7 engineers reinforced by
engineers from the German Aerospace Center (DLR) during tests of the solar field. This
implementation arrangement worked well and ensured the resolution of technical issues
whenever they arose.

  31. The establishment of a small Project Implementation Unit (PIU) led by an
experienced project manager based on-site with support from financial,
procurement and safeguards specialists based at ONEE’s headquarters facilitated
project implementation. The long distance between ONEE’s headquarters and the



15
   In Kureimat, Egypt, the solar field could not generate at design steam levels because the solar heat
exchanger (low pressure HTF on one side / high pressure water-steam on the other) had leaks, and the
resulting water in the oil caused cavitation problems in the HTF pumps in the solar field. Discrepancies
between the power block EPC and the solar system EPC/O&M contractor made the problem resolution
difficult. This equipment-type of problem was not identified in Ain Beni Mathar, Morocco.
16
   World Bank, “Eighth Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA8), Fiscal Year 2006-2007?, 2008
17
   From start of construction on January 19, 2008 until commissioning on October 19, 2010.
                                                  10
project site, over 500 km, motivated this arrangement which proved highly positive for
the successful implementation of this complex project.

  32. The bidding process did not set a particular solar field capacity but rather
requested bidders to submit two options: 20 MW and 30 MW. Pre-bidding cost
estimates were subject to a high degree of uncertainty due to the small solar CSP market
worldwide and limited number of suppliers. Since the GEF grant was allocated to cover
the cost of the solar field and its amount was pre-determined at US$ 43.2 million, this
arrangement reduced the risk of receiving bids far in excess of the available funding.

  33. The unexpected shortage of gas for the combined-cycle island hindered the
maximization of solar-generated electricity for thirteen months. Initially, the plant
relied on gas transiting through the Maghreb-Europe pipeline from which Morocco had
the right to consume around 7%. Starting in 2008, a lower-than-expected gas demand in
Spain and Portugal due to the economic crisis reduced the available gas in the pipeline.
After commissioning, the plant could only operate intermittently to cover the evening
peak electricity demand. The solar field was available, but steam was not produced due
mainly to cost-efficiency reasons. This problem was solved in November 2011 after
ONEE’s signature of a dedicated gas-supply contract with Algeria.

  34. The project was originally conceived to be implemented on independent
power producer (IPP) basis, but it was redesigned as public project with turnkey
contract during preparation. The Mexico ISCC project was similarly restructured. The
Egypt Kureimat project was designed as a public project from the start and did not
experience any changes in this regard. The Ain Beni Mathar project awarded through
international competitive bidding a single turnkey contract, i.e. EPC and a 5-year O&M
contract to the Abengoa consortium for the design, construction, operation and
maintenance of the ISCC plant. The Egypt Kureimat project, instead, awarded one EPC
contract for the combined cycle island and another EPC contract for the solar island.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

  35. M&E design: The stated PDO in the PAD and in the Grant Agreement shows
some nuanced differences, but they do not affect the overall objectives in substance.
While it is common for the PDO and GEO to be different, especially if the GEO refers to
mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions such as in this case, the PDOs in both the PAD
and the Grant Agreement should always be the same. The overarching objective is to test
the viability of solar thermal technology and contribute to replication of integrated solar
combined cycle (ISCC) technology in Morocco and elsewhere, while the project
development objective is to increase the contribution of renewable energy sources in
Morocco’s energy mix and add capacity to the power grid to help cope with the sustained
growth in electricity demand as stated in the PAD.

 36. An appropriate results framework was designed as described in Annex 3 of the
PAD. The outcome indicator “solar thermal power plant costs in ¢/kWh? was not



                                            11
defined18, but it has been assumed to be US$ 24.4 ¢/kWh, the levelized cost of electricity
from the solar field. The targets of the related outcome indicator “solar thermal power
plant costs as a % of natural gas price? were not specified in the PAD.

  37. M&E implementation: ONEE provided data to evaluate project implementation
after the Bank’s project closing date. However, a systematic and comprehensive plan to
compile lessons learned and disseminate knowledge resulting from the ISCC plant needs
to be further pursued when more operational data becomes available.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

  38. The project did not pose major environmental risks and was classified as
category B by the Bank. The operational policies OP4.01 on environmental assessment
and OP4.12 on involuntary resettlement were triggered. Appropriate safeguards
documents were completed and disclosed, including (i) Environmental Impacts
Assessment (EIA) for the ISCC plant, the gas spur and access road, and high voltage
lines (three reports), (ii) Environmental Management Plan (EMP), (iii) Resettlement
Policy Framework (RPF) and (iv) Resettlement Action Plan (RAP).

  39. The main potential environmental impacts identified during construction
and operation, i.e. site contamination by thermal fluid leakage, excessive water
pumping and generation of large quantities of solid waste during construction, have
been satisfactorily prevented so far by the plant operator, Abengoa, and ONEE. At the
beginning of construction (2008), though, the environmental mitigation and monitoring
measures were not adequately conducted nor thoroughly reported. ONEE staff on-site
was not aware, for example, of the existence of an EMP. Hence, several measures
required in the EMP such as noise and air quality monitoring, proper waste management,
preparation of an occupational, health, and safety plan by the plant operator had not been
done. But ONEE rapidly remediated these issues. Despite the absence of major
environmental impacts, improvements could be introduced in the management of
environmental issues to ensure satisfactory implementation of mitigation measures on all
project components in the future. Regarding social issues, all measures put forward by
ONEE to be in compliance with Bank’s policies, e.g. compensation to landowners for
loss of agricultural productivity, were considered satisfactory and no particular issues
arose.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

  40. Several post-completion operation options were discussed but not
implemented due to technical and institutional reasons. The creation of a pure solar
CSP plant next to the ISCC plant in Ain Beni Mathar seemed the most feasible option19,


18
   PAD, “Annex 17: Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) Review?, p. 94. STAP technical
reviewer requested clarification of the calculation methodology of this indicator in his point 6.3 “solar
thermal power plant costs?, but the Bank team did not seem to address this remark in the PAD.
19
   World Bank, “Aide Memoire – Supervision mission of Ain Beni Mathar ISCC plant?, July 13-16 of 2009
(in French)
                                                   12
but ONEE preferred not to take any step towards project preparation due to the changing
institutional environment. Indeed, Morocco reinforced the legal and institutional
framework for the large-scale development of solar energy by the adoption of a law on
renewable energies and the creation of a specialized solar agency, the Moroccan Agency
for Solar Energy (MASEN), in 2010.

  41. The operation & maintenance (O&M) of the plant has been entrusted to a
private company, Abengoa, under a 5-year contract. The contractor submits monthly
reports to ONEE with details on the performance of the plant and a list of maintenance
actions. In 2015, the contract will expire and ONEE will have to either operate and
maintain the plant with its own staff, renew the private company’s contract or find
another contractor. The advantages and disadvantages of each option need to be carefully
assessed over the next year. For the purpose of this project, the important issue is to
ensure that the expertise acquired during the O&M of the pilot ISCC plant remains in
Morocco. At present, 90% of the 60 staff employed by the private company in O&M are
Moroccans, which already ensures this goal is met.

  42. The monitoring of performance indicators needs to continue and be more
systematic in the future. The O&M private contractor (Abengoa) already monitors and
reports basic indicators such as total ISCC’s annual electricity generation (GWh) and
ISCC’s annual electricity generation from the solar field (GWh). However, it is
recommended that ONEE’s strengthens its monitoring system for the other indicators of
the PAD’s Annex 3, in particular those related to the dissemination and lessons learned
during pre-construction, construction and operation of the plant.

  43. A continued monitoring of the performance of the ISCC plant by the
Government of Morocco is recommended in three years. Due to the shortage of gas
supply from commissioning (October 2010) until November 2011, the Bank could only
evaluate the performance of the solar field and its integration with the combined cycle
island (see Annex 4 for details) based on a single full-year of data (2012). The
availability of more data in the future could contribute to confirm that the satisfactory
performance has been sustained. The Government of Morocco could monitor and report
the results to the Global Environment Facility (GEF).

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

 44.   Relevance is rated as High because:

       (i) Demonstration and learning of CSP technology from the project remains
           highly valuable at global level despite the growth of installed CSP capacity.
           Lessons learned and operational data from the project can be very valuable for
           the deployment of the technology particularly in developing countries. The
           hybrid gas-solar ISCC configuration is a viable future technology when
           countries have ready access to gas. ISCC plants have several advantages over
           stand-alone CSP plants such as increased efficiency and stable plant operation.
                                             13
        (ii) The objective of the GEF project continues to be highly relevant to the
             country’s current development priorities and the Country Partnership Strategy
             (CPS)20
        (iii) Project implementation contributed to raise awareness of CSP technology in
             Morocco and to create in-country expertise, which has been key for designing
             the Moroccan Solar Plan and launching utility-scale pure solar CSP projects
             Ouarzazate I and II; and
        (iv)The Clean Technology Fund is providing support to the scale-up of the
             technology in MNA countries, including Morocco, since 2009 to further
             support cost-reductions through economies of scale and learning effects.

  45. Since project appraisal, the total CSP installed capacity worldwide has increased
from 354 MW to approximately 2 GW mainly because of favorable incentive
mechanisms in Spain and the US. CSP technology has experienced cost reductions due to
economies of scale and innovation, but remains expensive. The CSP levelized cost of
electricity (LCOE) of Ain Beni Mathar was US$ 24.4 ¢/kWh (see Annex 3). The LCOE
comparison with stand-alone “pure? CSP plants requires caution though because of
differences in size and configuration. Solar fields in ISCC plants are generally smaller,
which do not allow them to reach the economies of scale of larger stand-alone CSP plants.
Also, the integration of the combined cycle and the solar CSP technologies makes it
difficult to attribute precise cost figures on major shared components, e.g. HRSG and
steam turbine. Further, the solar integration benefits from existing power side services.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives

  46. The project’s main global environmental objective was to demonstrate the
operational viability of concentrated solar power (CSP) technology in a hybrid solar-gas
configuration and to foster replication. As part of a GEF-financed portfolio of similar
projects, the project would contribute to the global learning effects that would accelerate
cost-reduction and commercial adoption of the technology. A secondary objective was
the reduction in CO2 emissions. The contribution to the global learning effects was
expected to materialize through dissemination of experiences and lessons learned during
site-visits of national and international citizens, participation in workshops and
conferences and publication of technical information on ONEE’s website. Since October
2010, 440 visitors have travelled on-site to learn from the project and ONEE staff has
participated in 91 national and international events to showcase the project, which has
appeared in 41 television reports (see Annex 2 for details).

  47. In 2012, the Bank facilitated the visit of a Chinese delegation composed of high-
ranked government and business representatives to the project site. One of the
participants expressed that “this is very unique opportunity for us to learn how to carry
out resource assessment, project design, construction and operation from real




20
  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and International Finance Corporation, “Country
Partnership Strategy for the Kingdom of Morocco for the period FY10-13?, Report No. 50316-MA.
                                                  14
practitioners?21. The Bank is providing technical and financial support to develop the first
CSP project in the province of Inner Mongolia. China envisages developing 1,000 MW
CSP projects by 2015 and to reach a total installed CSP capacity of 3,000 MW by 2020.
Several countries have announced ambitious targets. A pipeline of projects worldwide in
the range of 6-20 GW has been announced, including CSP plants in Australia, South
Africa, the United States and India22. The latter plans to develop 20 GW of solar energy
by 2022. This increase in global CSP installed capacity could dramatically contribute to
drive-down the cost of the technology for global benefit.

  48. Also, the Bank facilitated the visit of a US delegation composed of US Treasury
and Environmental Protection Agency staff.

  49. Regarding the reduction in CO2 emissions, the Ain Beni Mathar project achieved
a reduction of 22,988 tons in 2012, only 5.4% lower than target value. This value is
explained by the lower energy production from the solar field due to a 12% lower Direct
Normal Irradiation (DNI) than the reference year (see Annex 4), which might not be
constant until the end of the project lifetime.

  50. For the above reasons, the achievement of Global Environmental Objectives is
considered Satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency

  51. The net present value (NPV) and economic rate of return of the project have been
recalculated based on actual values, including the cost of investment which was reduced
from US$ 556 million at appraisal to $543.60 million in this ICR and the average selling
price (2012) which increased23 from US$ 8 ¢/kWh to US$ 9.15 ¢/kWh (see Annex 3).
The resulting project NPV is US$ 305 million and the economic rate of return is 16.55%
(GEF grant has been deducted from total costs). As mentioned in the PAD, fuel costs are
the most critical variable. It should be noted that it has not been possible to obtain the
actual price of gas supplied by Algeria to ONEE for the project. Hence, the price
US$ 6/MMBtu used in the PAD has been taken as reference. The project NPV would
become negative for a price of natural gas exceeding $7.7/MMBtu.

     52.   In view of the above results, the Efficiency of the project is rated Satisfactory.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

  53. The project was the first of its kind in the world and contributed to the
demonstration of a new non-carbon emitting technology in Morocco coupled to a gas-
fired combined cycle system to fulfill the rapidly increasing electricity demand in the


21
   Song, Y. “China visits Morocco, Egypt & finds the light of the future?, October 1, 2012. Blog:
http://menablog.worldbank.org/closer-sun-china%E2%80%99s-vision-solar-future
22
   Climate Investment Funds, “CTF Investment Plan for Concentrated Solar Power in the Middle East and
North Africa region – Supplemental document?. October 28, 2010
23
   The increase reflects changes introduced by the government for some categories of consumers in 2009.
                                                  15
country at least cost. The integration of the solar field and the combined cycle islands was
the most difficult challenge technically, but it was overcome (see Annex 4). After a
difficult start due to unavailability of sufficient gas, the ISCC plant is performing
satisfactorily. While little can be learned about economics of CSP technology from this
experience given the small size of the solar field, useful lessons can be drawn in the areas
of development, procurement, contractual structure and performance testing of the solar
island components. O&M planning and optimization of future solar projects will benefit
from the lessons learned in this facility.

  54. The project provided ONEE staff with invaluable experience during the different
phases of the project. This learning experience had a positive influence in the preparation
of the Moroccan Solar Plan (2009) and the preparation of a 160 MW pure solar CSP
project in Ouarzazate, which the Bank also supports. For example, ONEE staff in charge
of purchasing meteorological stations for Ouarzazate chose the same firm and equipment
used for Ain Beni Mathar based on the same terms and contract. ONEE staff involved in
the ISCC project was also in charge of preparing the tender for selecting the owner’s
engineer for the Ouarzazate project. Moreover, numerous site visits to the project allowed
national and international professionals to learn from it.

Rating: Satisfactory, based on High relevance of objectives, Satisfactory achievement of
development objectives and Satisfactory efficiency.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

  55. Overall, the project has had very positive social development impact on the
neighboring communities and the local economy. These impacts have been larger during
construction than during operation. The project has: (i) provided further electricity supply
to the local community, (ii) stimulated local economy, (iii) improved the standard of
living in the community, (iv) opened up several hamlets near the plant that did not have
road access, and (v) created jobs. Moreover, the town of Ain Beni Mathar near the project
site has benefited from tax revenues paid by ONEE to the municipality in concept of
licenses.

 56.   The project’s direct benefits included:

          Community projects for one hundred neighboring families, e.g. construction
           of latrines in three schools and reinforcement of irrigation system. These
           projects were financed with the funds corresponding to the expropriation of
           collective land for the project. 
          740 direct jobs during construction (240 non-qualified workers of the nearby
           town of Ain Beni Mathar and nearly 500 qualified workers from other parts of
           Morocco) and 50 after commissioning (October 2010) for O&M work.  




                                            16
     57.   The project’s indirect benefits included:

              Greater dynamism of the local economy during construction of the plant due
               to increased demand for goods and services (accommodation, restaurants,
               cafes).
              Benefits for women derived from the community projects that were
               implemented around Ain Beni Mathar as compensation for use of collective
               land, which improved their quality of life through: (a) improving access to
               schools and (b) improving irrigation systems24.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

  58. The 20 MW CSP solar field of the ISCC plant has provided a unique opportunity
to ONEE staff and other Moroccan professionals to get familiar with a new technology.
The learning effects of this experience have had a positive impact on the scaling-up of
CSP technology in the country, which is positioning itself at the forefront of the global
agenda on climate change and green technologies25.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

  59. The small size of the solar field did not provide the appropriate incentives for the
development of a local solar industry. Only 5% of the components where produced
locally. The EPC contractor, Abengoa, preferred to mitigate the construction risks by
using European suppliers that the company normally utilized. Furthermore, waivers on
import taxes granted for this project led to very limited price advantages for national
suppliers26. Also, the pipeline of CSP projects worldwide was significantly smaller six
years ago and many of the CSP components were only available from a smaller number
of companies from Europe and the US.

  60. After the construction of the plant, the new legal and institutional framework to
support the implementation of the 2,000 MW Moroccan Solar Plan put, however, a
stronger emphasis on the development of a local solar industry to diversify the economy
and create jobs. To maximize the impact of the project in the long term, the possibility to
create a research center on the site involving nearby universities and other partners could
be explored.

  61. At the time of project preparation, Morocco’s government and the Bank were not
planning future CSP engagement and market momentum was slow globally. In fact,
GEF’s support to the project –as well as to the other three similar projects worldwide-



24
   World Bank, “Aide Memoire – Supervision mission of Ain Beni Mathar ISCC plant?, July 13-16 of 2009
(in French)
25
   Morocco is increasingly drawing the attention of the renewable energy community as proven by the
number of international and regional conferences held in the country such as SolarPACES and MENAREC
in 2012.
26
   Audinet P., März T., “Lessons for Solar Power Development from the World’s First Integrated Solar
Combined Cycle Project?, 2011.
                                                 17
helped keep global momentum for CSP technology at a time when there was a slow down
because of limited government support in US and Europe. Since 2009, the Bank and the
Clean Technology Fund (CTF) are supporting a larger CSP program to scale-up the
technology in the MNA region in a context of revived global interest in CSP. The CTF
MNA CSP scale-up program has benefited from lessons learned during project design
and implementation.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

 62.   Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

  63. Technical: The ISCC plant completed a one year of operation (2012) with highly
satisfactory performance values (see Annex 4). The initial acute problem related to gas
supply shortages was resolved after ONEE signed a gas supply agreement with Algeria,
therefore ensuring an adequate and continuous fuel supply to the plant. The risk of further
supply problems is considered to be low to moderate. Integration of the solar island with
the combined cycle island has been functioning as designed, meeting the primary
objective of the ISCC configuration. The risk of not being able to maintain normal
operation is low to moderate. Mitigation is ensured by provisions included in the O&M
contract to incentivize the O&M contractor to maximize the electrical output of the plant.
The 5-year O&M contract also includes performance tests after expiration. The solar
island is performing well. However, a mirror-soiling phenomenon, created by sand and
dust wet with morning dew, has been noticed during the summer which can reduce mirror
reflectivity by 20-40% and hence decrease the solar island performance in the long run.
ONEE has recently started using manual mirror washing to complement the work of the
contractors’ mirror washing truck. The risk of lower performance of the solar island is
moderate.

  64. Government commitment and institutional framework: The government is deeply
committed to scale-up solar technology in Morocco to fulfill the target of 2,000 MW
installed by 2020. Hence, the contribution to the cost-reduction of CSP technology for the
global benefit through economies of scale and learning effects will continue. A newly-
created specialized agency, MASEN, has taken over ONEE on the leadership role to
implement solar technology in the future. MASEN will start shortly the construction of
the first phase of the Ouarzazate solar complex, a 160 MW parabolic trough CSP, and
recently announced the development of three additional large CSP projects in the same
site. The second site to host the next large CSP complex is the town of Ain Beni Mathar
at 5 km from the ISCC plant. MASEN and ONEE have frequent informal contacts
through which experiences are shared. However, the solar island in Ain Beni Mathar
remains the only CSP plant in operation in Morocco so far. Hence, the dissemination of
lessons learned needs to continue through on-site study-tours for national and
international visitors, participation in regional and international conferences and
divulgation in several media formats.



                                            18
Rating: In view of the above reasons, the overall Risk to Development Outcome is
Moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

  65. The PAD was approved by the Bank’s Board on April 19, 2007 after a lengthy
preparation time (over 8 years). This long preparation time is justified by (i) the change in
the design of the project, from an IPP to a public sector project; (ii) the inexperience
inside and outside the Bank in developing Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) projects; and
(ii) the coordination required among partners, i.e. GEF, AfDB, ONEE and IBRD, which
were also inexperienced in preparing projects of this nature. In particular, the main causes
of this long preparation time were:

        General global decline in IPP interest in developing countries. The 9/11 events
         and the collapse of the energy company Enron in 2001, the largest bankruptcy in
         US history, reduced private sector’s appetite for such projects. This changing
         environment was part of the reason behind two unsuccessful bids in 2002 and the
         subsequent re-bid as a public sector project in 2005. Also, the initially proposed
         “merchant plant? structure was not well adapted to the embryonic private energy
         market in Morocco, i.e. the winning bidder was supposed to build the plant first
         and look for buyers of electricity later at a price to be negotiated after the plant
         would have been built.
        In 2004, the Bank commissioned an independent assessment of the GEF-financed
         ISCC portfolio 27 – in close collaboration with the GEF Secretariat, client
         countries and industry - to respond to concerns from some GEF council members
         regarding the slow pace of implementation. The cancellation of the solar
         component of the Ain Beni Mathar project was raised. As a result of this
         assessment, the cancellation was rejected but further delays were incurred
        During the bidding process (2005-2007), ONEE needed to completely redesign
         the bidding documents and the project scope to accommodate a doubling of the
         conventional generation capacity (because another generation plant in its capacity
         expansion plan was delayed).
         When the solar field component of the bidding documents was being designed
         there was virtually no global experience (inside or outside the Bank) in bidding
         CSP plants. Moreover, there was no global experience in developing CSP projects
         in a developing country, or in a ISCC configuration anywhere, or bidding it as an
         IPP.The project was a partnership between GEF, AfDB, ONEE and IBRD. The




27
  World Bank, GEF, “Assessment of the World Bank/GEF strategy for the Market Development of
Concentrating Solar Thermal Power?, 2006

                                             19
        required coordination between partners without experience in developing CSP
        projects also contributed to the delays.

  66. A Bank’s internal assessment on the project’s quality at entry carried out in
October 2007, stated that “delays appear to have been largely outside the control of the
project team? and highlighted that the “GEF Council Approval was not obtained until
October 2004, more than 6 years after Concept Review?. The Bank’s assessment at that
time rated the project “Satisfactory? overall, which coincides with the rating of the ICR
team. The evaluation did not identify any significant shortcoming, other than the very
long preparation time previously explained, and highlighted the procurement
arrangements among its strong aspects.

  67. The Bank team designed a sound two-stage procurement process, technical and
financial, to select one contractor to design, construct, operate and maintain the plant
through international competitive bidding. In contrast with the experience of Egypt’s
Kureimat ISCC plant, the award of a single contract to one company responsible to erect,
operate and maintain for five years the whole plant (EPC and 5-year O&M contracts),
facilitated the integration of the combined cycle and the solar field islands.

Rating: Satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

  68. In general, the Bank team’s supervision was thorough and proactive on issues
related to the solar field financed by the Global Environment Facility (GEF). The Bank
carried out six supervision missions with teams composed of technical and safeguards
policy experts. The Bank team monitored closely the compliance with the effectiveness
conditions of the grant agreement. The effectiveness deadline was adequately extended
from August 19, 2007 to March 31, 2008 to allow time to ONEE to complete the
recruitment of the engineering consultant, which was one of the effectiveness conditions.
During construction of the plant, the Bank supervised adequately environmental and
social issues. In December 2008, the Bank team reported to management that the
progress report received from ONEE “contained limited information on the component 8
of the project (Environmental and Social Development and Management and lessons
learnt from constructing integrated solar thermal power plant) and on the implementation
of the Environmental Management Plan?, but it is unclear if there was an immediate
follow-up with ONEE to address this issue.

  69. The Bank team contributed to the dissemination of lessons learned by, for
example, presenting a paper about the project 28 at the international Solar Paces
Conference in 201129, which was published in its proceedings. The Bank and ONEE need
to continue their respective dissemination efforts in national, regional and international


28
   Audinet P., Marz T., “Lessons for Solar Power Development from the World’s First Integrated Solar
Combined Cycle Project?, SolarPACES, 2011.
29
   http://www.solarpaces2011.org/cms/fileadmin/user_upload/Dokumente/Complete-program.pdf
                                                20
events. The creation of a dedicated project website with detailed technical and
operational data could be considered by ONEE once more operational data are gathered
in the next few years.

Rating: Satisfactory

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

  70. The Bank’s team designed and supervised a hybrid technology, ISCC, which was
a first of its kind in the world and a solar technology, CSP, which did not exist in any
developing country. The risks of such an operation were high. The plant has been
performing satisfactory during all the year 2012 after the problem of gas supply was
resolved. Hence, the performance data is limited and further evaluations should be carried
out in the future to draw conclusions. One could argue that gas availability for the ISCC
plant could have been analyzed further during preparation, but it should also be noted that
gas-related issues are highly-sensitive issues in Morocco and information is often not
available.

Rating: Satisfactory

5.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance

  71. The Moroccan government was a major driving force behind the project, which
was expected to reduce the risk of blackouts due to a fast-growing electricity demand in
the country. The GEF grant provided the government with the opportunity to diversify its
energy mix and to contribute to the demonstration and replication of the technology
through learning effects. In 2006, the Moroccan government sent a letter to the Bank
expressing its commitment to these objectives while reiterating the importance of the
GEF contribution.

Rating: Satisfactory

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

  72. After bid evaluation, ONEE knew that the GEF grant could not cover the total
cost of the solar field. ONEE, however, showed strong commitment to the project by
covering the difference30. ONEE went the extra mile on environmental protection issues
by choosing a cooling system in the plant design which dramatically reduced the
project’s water consumption, but with a higher price tag. ONEE had requested bidders to
submit offers with two cooling options (wet and dry), which allowed ONEE to take an
informed decision based on operational and cost criteria. The implementation of the
environmental management plan for the ISCC plant was adequate, but the overall


30
  ONEE paid US$ 23.8 million, the difference between the US$ 66 million of the lowest evaluated bid and
the US$ 43.2 million of the GEF grant. Project Appraisal Document (PAD), 2007, p.12.
                                                  21
monitoring of environmental impacts could have been improved –including impact on
groundwater and impacts related to transmission lines – with the appointment of an
environmental manager with competences on all components of the project as suggested
by the Bank. Similarly, the monitoring of indicators needs to be more systematic and not
only limited to few output indicators reported by the EPC and O&M contractor.

  73. Nevertheless, ONEE deserves credit to have successfully implemented a unique
project worldwide involving high uncertainties and risks. During construction, ONEE’s
project implementation unit (PIU) was confronted to: (i) extreme weather events in 2008
and 2009 (wind and storms), which affected equipment in the solar field; (ii) incidents
during construction, such as fire in the air filter of one gas turbine (May 2009); and (iii)
lack of sufficient gas for testing. Despite these adversities, ONEE’s project team reacted
swiftly and construction only suffered from a 6-month delay. The establishment of a
working environment based on trust and dialogue with the EPC and O&M contractor was
part of the reason for the timely resolution of these incidents. In addition, the support
provided by an experienced advisor to the PIU ensured the quality of the ISCC plant.

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

 74.     The overall borrower’s performance was rated Satisfactory due to the reasons explained
above.

6. Lessons Learned

  75. The use of integrated solar-combined cycle (ISCC) technology can be a
stepping stone for scaling-up concentrated solar power (CSP), provided that fossil-
fuel supply is guaranteed. The hybrid solar-gas ISCC power plant addressed the need
for additional power-generating capacity while contributing to the global learning curve
of CSP technology. The ISCC design allowed ONEE to take a measured risk and test the
feasibility of CSP in its generation system without hampering its objective of ensuring
reliable electricity supply. The parabolic trough solar field could only generate thermal
energy as planned thirteen months after the plant’s commissioning (October 2010) once a
guaranteed supply of Algerian gas was secured. Morocco had the right, as royalty, to
consume 7% of the gas volumes transiting in the Maghreb-Europe gas pipeline, which
was used to supply the combined cycle plant of Tahaddart and the hybrid solar-gas plant
of Ain Beni Mathar. However, the reduction of transiting gas volumes due to decline in
gas consumption in Spanish and Portuguese markets reduced the gas supply available for
the project.

  76. ISCC plants offer a unique solution to build small capacity solar fields to
substitute fossil fuel in larger conventional plants. However, ISCC plants are only one
of several options for the development of concentrated solar power, and probably a




                                              22
secondary one when fast and large-scale deployment of solar energy in a specific power
system is desired31.

  77. The choice of an optimal site is key to the development of an Integrated Solar
Combined Cycle (ISCC) plant. The selection of Ain Beni Mathar as project site was a
compromise between weather conditions, water and gas availability and social factors. If
the project would have been a gas-fired combined cycle (CC) plant (without solar field),
the site location would have probably been closer to the sea to maximize performance
due to lower pressures and lower ambient temperatures. However, the integration of a CC
plant with a parabolic trough CSP plant required a higher solar irradiation such as in Ain
Beni Mathar. The solar irradiation (DNI) at the site was measured at 2,290 kWh/m²
annually during preparation of the project (higher than the 2,100-2,200 average in Spain,
but lower than 2,700 in southwestern United States). Also, the site was located on one of
the largest ground-water tables in North Africa and only 12 km from the Maghreb-
Europe gas pipeline. Moreover, the project was expected to reduce unemployment in a
region deeply affected by the closure of the neighboring Jerada coal mine in 2005.

  78. Request cooling technology options to bidders. Due to high cost uncertainties,
ONEE requested bidders to submit a proposal with wet cooling technology and another
with dry cooling, while indicating a threshold of water consumption. This procurement
arrangement allowed ONEE to know actual costs of both options and take an informed
decision, which yielded the best technical solution at a lower cost.

  79. Bid the project with single contract for the construction, operation and
maintenance of the ISCC plant to achieve smooth operation of the plant. The Ain
Beni Mathar project involved the financing of only one contract, jointly financed by
ONEE, the Bank (IBRD) and AfDB, under international competitive bidding and had its
procurement actions advanced and completed before the Bank’s Board approval of the
grant. ONEE, with the support of its technical advisor Fichtner Solar, dealt with only one
contractor, Abengoa, which introduced simplicity in an already complex project. This
was not the case in Egypt where the Kureimat project was tendered in two separate
contracts for the solar field and the combined cycle island. After problems with a piece of
equipment emerged, e.g. leakage of solar heat exchanger (low pressure HTF on one side /
high pressure water-steam on the other), differences arose between the EPC contractor of
the combined-cycle island and the solar field EPC/O&M contractor regarding who had
the responsibility of solving the problem. This problem did not occur at Ain Beni Mathar.

  80. Extend the operations and maintenance (O&M) period from two to five
years. Due to ONEE’s inexperience with CSP technology, three years without guarantee
were added to the standard O&M contract (2-year with guarantee). This procurement
arrangement lowered ONEE’s operational risks by transferring it to the contractor and
allowed the plant’s satisfactory performance so far. The Egypt’s Kureimat project,
instead, bid a contract for a 2-year O&M.


31
 Audinet P., Marz T., “Lessons for Solar Power Development from the World’s First Integrated Solar
Combined Cycle Project?, 2011
                                                 23
  81. Suppliers of key ISCC plant components need to be members of the EPC
consortium. At Ain Beni Mathar, the supplier of the steam turbine was not a member of
the consortium that was awarded the turnkey contract for the design, construction,
operation and maintenance of the plant. The inclusion of the steam turbine supplier in the
consortium would probably have reduced unnecessary delays during construction
because of the risk-sharing with other members of the consortium and increased
involvement in the project.

  82. Encourage independent solar irradiation measurements in order to ensure a
correct application of penalties. A number of capable firms have developed excellent
tools to provide such data in most parts of the world. Further, installation of accurate
measurement stations at solar plant sites should take place early to obtain several years of
solar data prior to plant design.

  83. Plan the tender to satisfy both utility and bidder needs. The initial IPP tenders
in 2002 for the Ain Beni Mathar plant failed, in part, because the request was for IPP
tenders without a PPA. Rather, interested parties were asked to bid on the basis of a
"merchant plant?. This approach was considered too risky by potential bidders for a
project in Morocco, where there were very few potential buyers of electricity. The
subsequent tender for a turnkey contract for the design, construction, operation and
maintenance of the ISCC plant resolved those problems and attracted quality responses.

  84. Place particular attention on operational ISCC issues in the detailed design.
While conceptually straightforward, the detailed design of the ISCC integration can
negatively impact operational flexibility under certain circumstances. At Ain Beni
Mathar, certain aspects related to the integration of the solar steam generator and HRSG
require special attention by the operator to achieve smooth operation in the solar mode.
This added complexity could have an impact on obtaining optimum performance and
maximum utilization of the integrated system.

  85. Develop and use standardized acceptance tests for CSP and ISCC plants
would be an additional advancement. The National Renewable Energy Laboratory
(NREL) in the US has issued preliminary Guidelines for large solar systems that can be
combined with existing standards for power systems, and institutions like the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) are working on issuing official Performance
Test Codes for utility-scale solar systems.

  86. Set mirror soiling goals and meet them by an appropriate frequency for
mirror panel washing. New cost-effective mirror washing techniques should be
developed to obtain clean mirrors using less water and less labor. Improved
instrumentation to monitor reflectivity would provide important operational data,
preferably at reduced cost and improved accuracy for readings in a large solar field.

  87. Establish a framework of open partnership with the EPC contractor to
resolve any potential incident as soon as possible. A relationship of trust between the

                                            24
implementing agency/PIU and the EPC contractor is paramount to avoid unnecessary
contractual disputes and overcome all technical challenges posed by such project.



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




(b) Cofinanciers




(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

     (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                     Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest           Percentage of
           Components
                                       (US$ millions)           Estimate               Appraisal
                                                             MAD      US$
 1- Design, Construction and
     Operation of an Integrated
                                            462.58         4 366.81     508.36            110%
     Solar Combined Cycle
     Power Plant
 2- Transmission Lines                       15.75          134.14       15.62             99%
 3- Substations                              8.04            36.27       4.22              53%
 4- Access Road                              3.37            33.55       3.91             116%
 5- Boreholes                                0.31             4.90       0.57             184%
 6- Land acquisition                         0.84            9.00        1.05             125%
 7- Gas pipeline                             8.21           17.1032      1.99              24%
 8- Environmental and Social
     Development and                         2.24            0.8133       0.09              4%
     Management
 9- Consultancy services                     4.98           66.90        7.79             156%
Total Baseline Cost                         506.32         4669.48      543.60            107%
Physical Contingencies                      49.83             0           0
Price Contingencies                         11.65             0           0
Total Project Costs                         567.80         4669.48      543.60
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)            0               0           0
Front-end fee IBRD                            0               0           0
Total Financing Required                    567.80         4669.48      543.60




32
   Only supply of equipment and construction of the interconnection facility with the pipeline Maghreb-
Europe are covered in this price. Supply of equipment and construction of the 12.5 km gas pipeline are
included in cost n° 1 (Design and Construction of the Power Plant).
33
   Only the cost of updating findings and results of the Environmental Impact Assessment is included in
this figure. All costs related to other environmental and social development and management are included
cost n° 1.
                                                    26
       (b) Financing

                                                     Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                       Type of                                   Percentage of
             Source of Funds                         Estimate       Estimate
                                     Cofinancing                                  Appraisal
                                                   (US$ millions) (US$ millions)
 African Development Bank                               390          371.834         95%
 Borrower                                             136.27           0.00         0.00%
 Global Environment Facility (GEF)                     43.20          43.20          100%
Instituto de Credito Oficial (ICO)                     0.00          129.1935       0.00%




34
     Loan of Euro 287.8 million.
35
     Loan of Euro 100 million.
                                            27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Project Component 1: Design, Construction and Operation of an Integrated Solar
Combined Cycle Power Plant

88.     The plant was built and operated through an Engineering, Procurement and
Construction (EPC) with Operation and Maintenance (O&M) contract. ONEE is the
owner of the plant. The O&M contract will last 5 years and includes appropriate
incentives to ensure an efficient operation of the plant, particularly the solar field.

89.     The Solar Island consists of a parabolic trough solar field, the heat transfer fluid
(HTF) system up to the HTF inlet and outlet flanges of the Solar Heat Exchangers,
associated control systems and control and service buildings. The contractor for the
Project (ABENGOA) guarantees the supply of solar heat to the solar heat exchangers as a
function of direct normal irradiation (DNI) and sun incident angle.

90.     The Combined Cycle Island consists of two gas turbines, two heat recovery steam
generators (HRSG), one steam turbine, solar heat exchangers plus all associated control
and balance of plant equipment and installations. The dry-cooling option was
implemented for cooling of the steam cycle. The Contractor guarantees the generation of
electricity and the heat rate as a function of ambient temperature and supply of solar heat
from the Solar Island.

91.    The EPC contractor started in July 2007, with time to plant commissioning
scheduled for 22 months for the first gas turbine and for 34 months for the ISCC plant.
The EPC contractor did not meet the target commercial operation dates due to different
reasons. The work was delayed mainly for the following reasons:

            1. Exceptional bad weather especially in 2008 and 2009, heavy rain and
               flooding of the site
            2. Lack of a reliable natural gas supply impeded testing
            3. Fire accident which damaged the air filter for a gas turbine (no extra costs
               was incurred as a result of the incident)

92.     The small size of the solar field, representing around 1% of the ISCC plant total
energy production (MWh) in the form of steam to the ST, can only operate during normal
steam turbine operation. But steam turbine operation was severely limited due to
insufficient availability of gas from October 2010 (commissioning date) until November
2011. For the purpose of this evaluation, only values corresponding to the year 2012 have
been considered. As can be observed in Table 2 below, the plant achieved almost all its
targets and in some cases even exceeded them. The solar field, for example, generated 39
MWh instead of 40 MWh, a remarkable result in its first year of “normal? operations.
Further performance data is provided in Technical Annex 4.




                                            28
                              Table 2 – Results Framework: PAD target vs. achieved

                                                                  2010                  2011            2012
                Outcome Indicators                          Target Achieved       Target Achieved Target Achieved
Reductions in main air pollutants emissions
                                                           10,800        0        23,780      3,040     24,300     22,988
(tons/year) for CO2
Solar Thermal Power Plant costs in ¢/kWh                     21.8         -        18.7          -        17.4         24.436
As a % of natural gas price                                    -          -          -           -          -            -
Dissemination :
 - Number of Visitors to and information requests
                                                               -         8           -         150          -           282
about the plant
 - Number of workshops and conferences in which the
experience about the construction and operation of the         -         26          -          34          -           31
plant is presented
- Information about the plant posted on ONE's
                                                             yes        yes         yes        yes        yes           yes
website
        Results Indicators for Component 1
ISCC's yearly production of electricity in GWh              1,556       270        3,360      1,719      3,538         3,370

ISCC's yearly generation of solar electricity in GWh          17         0          37           5         40           39

ONE staff trained in various aspects of ISCC power
                                                              4          8           4          10         2             2
technology
Solar output as a percentage of total energy produced
                                                             0.5         0           1         0.31       1.13         1.16
by ISCC power plant (%)

Share of ISCC energy in total energy production (%)          8.7                   15.6                   16.8         10.85



          Project Component 2: The construction of 225kV and 60kV transmission lines

          93.     This component covers the construction of two 225kV and one 60kV transmission
          lines. The power produced by the ISCC plant is evacuated by two 225kV transmission
          lines to the Oujda (110 km) and Bourdim (70 km) substations. The two lines have been
          constructed by contractors ELCOTRAM and SEMI MAROC.




          36
             This value corresponds to the LCOE of the solar field (assuming 10% discount rate and 25-year plant
          lifetime). The actual capital expenditures are US$ 73,954,680, including US$ 67,957,000 for the solar
          island and 5,997,680 for the cost of solar heat exchangers. The actual operations and maintenance (O&M)
          costs are US$ 1,611,000 per year, including variable costs specific to the solar field and planned
          maintenance (US$ 431,000 per year), and fixed O&M costs shared with the combined cycle island
          (US$ 1,180,000 per year), e.g. cost of services, maintenance of the steam turbine and auxiliary equipment.
                                                             29
94.     The 60kV line is constructed to provide a backup power supply to the auxiliaries
of the ISCC plant in case of emergency. This line, of about 10 km, will connect the
60/225 kV substation of Ain Beni Mathar to the ISCC power plant 60/6.6 kV emergency
substation.

Project Component 3: The construction of High Voltage and Very High Voltage
substations

95.    This component covers the construction of one 225 kV substation. Design,
procurement and construction works were carried by the contractor COL GIOVANNI.

Project Component 4: The construction of an access road

96.    To link the power plant to the main road (Route principale 19), which links Oujda
to Bouarfa, an access road of about 6km was constructed. As part of the access road, two
bridges over the Charef and Tabouda rivers were also constructed. The infrastructures
were designed to support the heavy equipment necessary for the construction of the ISCC
power plant.

Project Component 5: The drilling of boreholes

97.     Three boreholes were drilled by be the Agence de Bassin de Moulouya (the
Moulouya Watershed Agency) which is legally mandated to undertake this work. Water
is pumped from the aquifer located below the site of Ain Beni Mathar. Only two
boreholes are used to pump quantities of water necessary for operation and maintenance
of the power plant, in particular the cleaning of the solar collectors and operating of the
steam cycle. Water reserves equivalent to one day consumption are stored. The site
wastewater is collected and treated in a two-hectare stabilization pond.

Project Component 6: Land acquisition

98.     203 hectares of land were acquired by ONEE for the construction and operation
of the plant. 160 hectares are for the power plant (including 88 ha for the solar field), 6
hectares for the boreholes and water distribution, 31 hectares for the gas spur from the
Maghreb-Europe pipeline to supply the power plant and the transmission lines, and 6
hectares for the access road.

Project Component 7: The construction of a gas pipeline to supply the plant

99.    The gas supply was ensured via the construction of a 13 km gas spur from the
Maghreb-Europe gas pipeline. Works related to the pipe construction were included in
the EPC contract of the ISCC power plant awarded to ABENGOA.

100. An agreement was signed between ONEE and EMPL (Europe Maghreb Pipeline
Limited) for the construction of the interconnection facility of the supply pipe with the
main pipeline. Contractors for civil, mechanical and electrical works were EMMSA and
SIEMENS.
                                            30
Project Component 8: Environmental and Social Development and Management

101. The implementation Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for all the project
components, e.g. construction and operation of the ISCC plant, the substations, the access
road, the transmission lines and the gas pipeline, was carried out adequately for the ISCC
plant. However, ONEE did not carry out: (i) a capacity building program to strengthen
capacities for the follow-up and monitoring of the implementation of the overall EMP,
and (ii) a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation program to disseminate the results
and lessons learned from the project in all its phases.

Project Component 9: Consulting services for project management and supervision

102. An “owner’s engineer? company, Fichtner Solar, was recruited to support ONEE
in the development of the project. This company had already been involved in the project
by preparing the feasibility study and tender documents including the performance
acceptance criteria. Fichtner Solar was present throughout the construction phase with a
team of 3 to 7 engineers and sub-contracted CSP specialists from the DLR (German
Aerospace Center) to be on site on a short-term basis to support its work, in particular
during tests of the solar field.




                                           31
Annex 3. Economic analysis and Incremental Cost analysis

       I.        Economic analysis

            103.     The ISCC plant is an integral part of ONEE’s least-cost expansion plan.
               Incremental capital costs, operation and maintenance costs, and benefit streams
               of the project (all in 2013 prices) are shown in Table 3. Assumptions underlying
               these figures are detailed below. Each assumption is discussed and analyzed on
               the basis of exchanges the Bank team had with ONEE during the
               implementation completion (ICR) mission.

                 The total installed cost of the plant was about US$543.60 million instead of
                  the appraised US$ 567.18 million (Annex 1).
                 Annual fixed operation and maintenance (O&M) costs were US$ 12 million
                  instead US$ 14.4 million.
                 Transmission and distribution costs increased from US$ 0.6 ¢/kWh at
                  appraisal to US$ 0.9 ¢/kWh. This value was calculated based on the cost
                  charged by ONEE in 2012 to private power producers within the framework
                  of the Renewable Energy Law 13-09.
                 Fuel costs have been estimated on the basis of the economic cost of gas for
                  Morocco of US$ 6/MMBtu. While official figures on the actual cost of
                  natural gas for the plant were not readily available, figures collected
                  informally from different sources in Morocco for this evaluation seem to
                  indicate that ONEE paid more than US$ 6/MMBtu in 2011 and 2012.
                 Gross generation (excluding solar generation) was estimated at 3,538
                  GWh/year in the PAD while the guaranteed production in 2012 was 3,741
                  GWh/year.

       Economic Benefits

            104.     Economic benefits associated with incremental electricity supply to
               consumers were calculated using average tariffs. The PAD explained that
               benefits in this case are more a reflection of the adequacy of tariffs than the true
               value of the benefits of the project because tariffs, particularly for domestic
               consumers, are subsidized. The tariff at appraisal was estimated at US$ 8 ¢/kWh.
               The average selling price for 2012 37 was around US$ 9.15 US ¢/kWh. The
               increase reflects upward changes introduced in 2009 by the government for
               some categories of consumers.

       Results of the Analysis

            105.    The calculations in the PAD showed that the expected NPV of the project
               was equal to US$48 million and the economic rate of return equal to 11.4%.



37
     Source: ONEE, Sales and Marketing Division.
                                                   32
       106.        Using new and actual values for the following parameters:

           -     Cost of investment US$ 543.6 million instead of the estimated US$ 556
                 million
           -     Gross generation (excluding solar generation) was estimated at 3538
                 GWh/year while the guaranteed production in 2012 was 3741 GWh
           -     Cost of operating and maintenance was estimated at US$ 14 million, while
                 in 2012 the cost was US$ 12 million.
           -     Cost of transmission increased from US$ 0.6 ¢/kWh to US$ 0.9 ¢/kWh
           -     Average selling price increased from US$ 8 ¢/kWh to US$ 9.15 ¢/kWh

         The calculated new NPV of the project is $305 million dollars and the rate of
   return is 16.55%. (GEF grant has been deducted from total costs)

       107.      Sensitivities: It was indicated in the PAD that fuel costs for the ISCC plant
          are the most critical variable. The project NPV becomes negative for a price of
          natural gas exceeding US$ 7.7/MMBtu. While the switching value for fuel cost
          was improved from US$ 7.2/MMBtu as appraised to $7.7/MMBtu, this variable
          is still of great concern and is still beyond control of ONEE. As suggested in the
          PAD, should fuel prices increase, tariffs would have to be adjusted accordingly.
          In other words, when the price paid by ONEE for gas imports is above the
          threshold of US$ 7.7/MMBtu, the economics of the plant are no longer viable
          and an increase of electricity tariffs might be required to offset the cost of fuel.

                               Table 3 – Updated Economic Analysis

  Fixed Operating                        US$
  Costs                             12   million/year
  Trans & Dist Cost                0.9   US¢/kWh
  Gross Generation               3701    GWh/year
  Fuel Cost                          6   US$/MMBtu
  Average Tariff               0.0915    US$/kWh
  Average T & D
  Losses                         12%
  Life of the Plant                25 years
  Discount rate                  10%
  Heat Rate                     6,626 MMBtu/MWh

 US$ Million

                       Fixed
          Invest                  Trans &                              Energy    Total       Net
                       O&M                     Fuel Cost Total costs
           Cost                   Dist Cost                             Sales   Revenues   Revenues
                       Cost
2007       250           0           0            0          250         0         0         -250
2008       250           0           0            0          250         0         0         -250
2009       44           12           33          147         236        3303      302         66
2010                    12           33          147         192        3303      302         110

                                                  33
2011                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2012                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2013                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2014                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2015                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2016                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2017                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2018                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2019                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2020                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2021                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2022                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2023                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2024                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2025                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2026                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2027                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2028                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2029                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2030                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2031                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110
2032                    12         33         147        192       3303        302       110

 NPV (US$ Million): 305
 IRR: 16.55%

         108.     The large increase of the NPV of the project, from US$ 48 million to
            US$ 305 million is mainly explained by the 14.4% increase of the average
            selling tariff of electricity, it accounts for 92.5% of the additional gains. The
            remaining part of the increase is explained by the higher than yearly projected
            guaranteed production from the power plant.

       II.    Incremental Cost Analysis

         109.    An Updated Incremental Cost Analysis is presented in Table 4 below. The
            Levelized Cost of Electricity for the solar field is US$¢ 24.4/ kWh.




                                              34
        Table 4 – Investment, O&M and incremental costs (US$ million)


                                       Appraisal       Latest      Percentage
                                          NPV           NPV            of
                                      (discounted)    estimate     Appraisal
Baseline CCGT (Costs not
updated)
Capital Costs                               414          414             100%
Fuel Costs                                 1171         1171             100%
O&M Costs                                   93           93              100%
Total                                      1678         1678             100%
Levelized Electricity Cost
(US$/MWh)                                  57.2         57.2             100%
Alternative ISCC
Capital Costs                               476          518             109%
Fuel Costs                                 1158         1158             100%
O&M Costs                                   107          107             100%
Total                                      1741         1783             102%
Levelized Electricity Cost
(US$/MWh)                                  59.6         61.04            102%
Increment
Incremental Capital Costs                   62.51       104              166%
Incremental fuel Costs                     -13.39      -13.00             97%
Incremental O&M Costs                       14.04      14.00             100%
Total Incremental Costs                     63.16      105.00            166%
Incremental Electricity Cost
(US$/MWh)                                   2.1         3.84             183%

          Table 5 - Sensitivity Analysis for Incremental Cost Estimate

                             Total Incremental Cost         Percentage Change
                                 (US$ million)              with base case (%)
                    $7/MMBtu         102.83                       -2.1%
   Gas Price        $6/MMBtu           105                      Base Case
                    $5/MMBtu         107.17                       2.1%
                       15%           104.68                       -0.3%
 Discount Rate         10%             105                      Base Case
                       5%            105.61                       0.6%
                        30           105.04                        0.0%
 Plant life time
                        25             105                      Base Case
    (years)
                        20           104.93                       -0.1%


                                      35
                     Table 6 – Incremental Costs Calculations – Technical Data

                                                                                    Appraisal
                                                                                    Technical      Actual Values
                                                                                      Data
Available Grant (US$ million)                                                          43.2             43.2
LEC of total generation (US$/MWh)                                                      62.16            61.10
Solar Generation (GWh/year)                                                             40               3938
Solar Generation as percent of design value                                             1.1              1.1
LEC of solar generation (US$/MWh)                                                       247              244

Solar field size (1,000 m2)                                                           183.12           183.12
DNI (Annual direct normal irradiation, kWh/m2/a)                                       2,290           2,03639
Power plant gross capacity (av. temp., max solar heat, MW)                              478              478
Power plant net capacity (day, av. temp., max solar heat, MW)                           472              472
Power plant net capacity (night, av. temp., max solar heat, MW)                         450              450
Specific C02 emissions of comparable generation (kg CO2/kWh)                            0.6              0.6
Annual CO2 emission reduction (kt/CO2/a)                                                24.3           22.940
Total C02 emission reduction (mln t/CO2/25 years)                                       0.61            0.57
Incremental cost per ton of C02 avoided (US$/ton)                                       104             111.5




   38
      This is the actual value for the year 2012 only, which might have variations over the 25-year project
   lifetime. Hence, the design value of 40 GWh/year has been used for calculating, for example, the levelized
   cost of electricity.
   39
      This is the actual value for the year 2012 only.
   40
      This value corresponds to the reductions of CO2 emissions (tons) in 2012, i.e. 0.59 (emissions
   coefficient) * 38,963 MWhe (solar field generation). This value is slightly lower than target because energy
   production from solar field was lower than projected value
                                                       36
Annex 4. Technical Analysis

Introduction

      110.     ISCC Concept: The Ain Beni Mathar (ABM) power plant is a gas-fired
         combined cycle (CC) configuration supplemented by solar-generated steam to
         produce additional power using solar energy. This so-called ISCC (integrated
         solar combined-cycle) approach serves to increase the overall plant electrical
         output while offering certain advantages with regard to solar thermal
         implementation. The plant’s general concept is depicted in Figure 1.




                         Figure 2 – The ISCC Plant in Ain Beni Mathar
                               (Source: Fichtner Solar GmbH41)

      111.     The ISCC integrates solar steam into the Rankine steam “bottoming cycle?
         of a combined-cycle power plant. The gas turbine (GT) constitutes the “topping
         cycle?. The hot exhaust air of the GT is used to generate steam in a Heat
         Recovery Steam Generator (HRSG), which then drives the steam turbine (ST).
         The general concept in an ISCC is to oversize the ST to handle the increased
         steam capacity. At ABM, the solar field produces steam in solar heat
         exchangers that is sent to the high pressure steam drum of the HRSG to
         supplement the steam being generated by the exhaust air of the gas turbine. At
         ABM the solar-generated electricity adds a modest 4% to the total plant power

41
  Georg Brakmann, Nour-Eddine Badaoui (ONEE), Miroslav Dolejsi, Roland Klingler, “Construction of
ISCC Ain Béni Mathar in Morocco?, Fichtner/ONEE, 2010 SolarPACES, Perpignan France.




                                               37
           output (MWe), with an annual energy contribution (MWh) closer to 1%. Heat
           rejection from the turbines is accomplished with an air-cooled condenser (ACC),
           greatly reducing the water usage for the plant.

      112.     The ISCC approach in general improves the economics of trough solar
         technology because the incremental cost to the CC plant requires no or minimal
         ancillary costs in the power block, electrical transformers, substation and other
         plant facilities to accommodate the solar addition. In addition, the solar steam
         energy may, in some cases, be converted to electricity at a higher efficiency.
         Also, the incremental cost of ancillary equipment in the plant is relatively small.
The Ain Beni Mathar ISCC plant configuration
      113.     The layout at ABM contains two Alstom gas turbines (Model GT13E) of
         155 MWe net capacity each and a single Alstom steam turbine-generator
         (Model DKYZ2-1N41B COMAX) of 171 MWe net capacity. Without solar
         integration, e.g. in the evening, the design plant output of the plant is about 450
         MWe. At the times that solar steam is integrated into the HRSG at design
         capacity, the design plant output increases to 472 MWe. Thus, the solar system
         adds approximately 20 MWe to the plant output (or 4.2%).
      114.     Table 7 shows the key technical design data for the solar field and CC at
         Ain Beni Mathar. This is based on a typical weather year42 for which the solar
         radiation totals 2,350 MWh/m2-a. A more complete description of the major
         power plant subsystems is given in Exhibit 1.

                 Table 7 - Key Technical Data for Ain Beni Mathar ISCC plant




                                              (Source: ONEE)

Operation and Performance


42
  For purposes of commercial solar field design, an appropriate solar radiation file is assembled from
limited historical data or extensive radiation estimates using satellite data to provide a typical or reference
weather file. This serves as a placeholder for actual long-term radiation measurements at the site which are
normally not available prior to plant design.
                                                     38
     115.     The ABM ISCC operates day and night as dictated by the ONEE’s grid
        demand requirements. The high temperature exhaust gas from the gas turbine
        (GT) generates steam in the HRSG, which is then supplied to the steam turbine
        (ST).

     116.     The ABM ISCC plant did not operate on a sustained normal schedule until
        November 2011 when security of the natural gas supply was achieved.
        Operation during most of the year 2011 was below projected plant output for the
        sole reason of shortage in the gas supply due to a lower than expected
        availability of transit gas from the Algeria-Spain pipeline. The plant operated
        only in an intermittent manner in 2011, frequently for peak purposes after sunset,
        reducing the contribution of solar energy. The solar field was available
        throughout the year when ONEE chose to operate the plant as an ISCC.
     117.     Nevertheless, it was indicated by ONEE that the flexibility offered by the
        power plant in terms of the range of configurations and power at which the plant
        can be operated was beneficial and contributed to overcoming the overall
        capacity shortage in the Moroccan power system in 2011. The following
        discussion primarily reflects information from data collected over the
        continuous 12 months of 2012.
     118.      The general appearance of the Ain Beni Mathar ISCC site and equipment
        is good, leading to the conclusion that the maintenance at the plant in these
        initial years is performed following industry standards.

Actual DNI vs. Reference Year

     119.    Parabolic troughs collect the direct beam radiation from the sun (termed
        “Direct Normal Irradiance?, also known as DNI). After a thorough evaluation
        by Fichtner Solar of applicable solar resource databases from NASA, NREL,
        METEONORM and S@tel-Light, Fichtner provided to ONEE in 2001 a DNI
        Reference year of hourly meteo data for Ain Beni Mathar calculated with the
        METEONORM Version 4 Year 2000 software. The cumulative annual DNI for
        the reference year is 2290 kWh/m²-year. The pattern for the year 2012 is
        compared to the Reference (or Design) year in the plot below. The 2012 annual
        value is about 12% lower than the reference year, spread relatively evenly
        throughout the year. Since the solar field sizing is based on the Reference Year,
        it would be expected that the annual solar field thermal output would be
        accordingly lower.




                                           39
        Figure 3 – Direct Normal Irradiation: 2012 Actual vs. Reference Year (source: ONEE)

Monthly Plant Capacity Factor

     120.     The Ain Beni Mathar ISSC plant is a base-load CC plant on the ONEE
        grid. The grid demand often calls for high production, but is sometimes
        constrained below full capacity, i.e. 100% capacity factor, due to a reduced
        demand from the grid operator, or by operating issues at the plant itself. The
        graphic below illustrates that the Ain Beni Mathar plant operated at a high base-
        load level in 2012, after the gas supply was stabilized in late 2011, with capacity
        factors up to 95%. The output units are MWhe. Note that the lower limit of the
        scale in each plot is at a high level. The dip in October is due to scheduled
        maintenance of one of the gas turbines.




             Figure 4 – ISCC output (MWhe) and Capacity Factor (%) (source: ONEE)

                                                40
Integration of Solar Energy

     121.     For illustration purposes only, the graphic below shows typical
        performance on a summer day for the cases of solar input (blue) and without
        solar input (red). The solar contribution peaks in midday, just when the gas
        turbine output is degraded due to high ambient air inlet temperatures. The high
        solar output reduces the level of gas use during this midday period, lowering
        plant greenhouse gas emissions.




             Figure 5 - Hourly Plant Output vs. Time for Summer Day (Source: ONEE)

Solar Contribution to Total Electrical Output

     122.    Due to the size of the solar system compared to the total ABM plant
        capacity the average annual solar contribution is low, on the order of 1%
        annually, while reaching approximately 2% during peak months. Data on the
        monthly solar contribution over the year 2012 is shown in the following table.
        The contribution is low in winter when solar production is lowest, and peaks in
        the May through September period.




                                       (Source: ONEE)



                                              41
     123.     The performance of the solar system in 2012 appears to be functioning
        satisfactorily, though output in this initial full calendar year of operation was
        limited by low insolation, excessive soiling due to weather and limitations in
        mirror cleaning, and perhaps solar field efficiency.

Solar Field Thermal Output (Actual vs. Warranted)

     124.     The measured thermal output of the solar field is compared to the
        projected solar field output obtained using a sophisticated performance model
        for the solar field. Input to the model consists of the actual weather data and
        warranted solar field performance parameters. In addition, the solar field
        warranty takes into account a lowered solar field output, or none, during periods
        of high winds. Such periods are excluded from the solar field output
        requirement, reducing the warranted requirement.

     125.     Table 8 below shows actual performance as reported by ONEE in 2012 vs.
        warranted values. The solar system output exceeds or is close to warranty
        performance in the periods January –June, September, and November-
        December. The output falls short in July and August, due a reduction in
        radiation and excessing soiling as discussed later, and in October. July-August
        are of particular importance, as these are important solar months. Other metrics
        of the solar system performance are provided in Table 9.

               Table 8 – Solar system Actual vs. Warranted performance




                                          42
                       Table 9 – Performance of the solar field




Conclusions – Ain Beni Mathar (ABM) solar system performance in 2012

    126.    The performance is good but falls short of excellent. More detailed
       evaluation of data would be necessary to quantify the contributing factors to
       performance, both positive and negative.

    127.     Reliability issues in solar trough systems at other trough CSP projects
       have generally focused on the solar heat exchanger tube sheet leaks, HTF pump
       seal replacement rate, and ball joint operation (not leaks). ONEE has not
       reported any difficulties in these areas, which would generally occur, if present,
       after a longer operating period.

    128.     The GEF-financed ISCC Kureimat project in Egypt has had some unusual
       corrosion problems in the solar field due to a high sulfuric acid content in the
       local air environment, but that would be highly unlikely at ABM due to the
       clean ambient atmosphere. Solar field soiling has been a problem at ABM,
       however, and is discussed below.

    129.     Average Solar Field Reflectivity: Solar field performance is almost
       directly proportional to the mirror panel reflectivity. According to Fichtner,
       ONEE’s engineer for the project, a mirror-soiling phenomenon that occurs
       especially in summer at ABM consists of a small amount of precipitation in
       combination with dusty mirrors, forming a hard film that can reduce the solar

                                          43
          field reflectivity by 20 to 40%. Cleaning all the mirrors in this condition takes
          several days, which is not an adequate solution.

      130.    Some additional information comes from daily data on mirror reflectivity
         readings for the months May 2012 through January 2013 provided by ONEE.
                              The daily readings were taken in a consistent pattern of 12
                              measurements distributed throughout the solar field. It is
                              possible from the data to calculate the reported monthly
                              solar field average reflectivities, shown in the table to the
                              left. The data is indicative but should be viewed with
                              caution as there are numerous indicators that suggest the
                              data contains a number of internal inconsistencies.

                                 A further point is that the average reflectivities seem low,
                                 though that is a subjective observation. New glass mirror
                                 panel reflectivities are about 0.94. In the US, mirror
                                 washing in summer is carried out to maintain an average
                                 field reflectivity in the 0.90 to 0.91 range; this is an
                                 economic goal set by the cost of washing compared to the
gain in performance, and the impact on the plant economics. The goal for an ISCC plant
like Ain Beni Mathar could be quite different. But note that the average monthly
reflectivities shown are quite low compared to 0.90, especially for such a small field with
a semi-automated mirror washing machine. Finally, the months of July through October
show particularly low values, likely due to excessive sandstorms plus rain or morning
dew.


          Exhibit 1 - Ain Beni Mathar ISCC Power Plant Technical Description

     Gas Turbine: The plant includes two ALSTOM type GT13E gas turbines with generators
      of rated electric power capacities of 155 MWe at 15°C ambient dry bulb temperature. The
      gas turbines will combust about 9.6 kg of natural gas per second each, and therefore require
      about 490 kg of combustion air per second. Inlet air filters clean the air of dust and other
      particulates.
     Steam Turbine: The plant includes an ALSTOM steam turbine with generator. At rated
      conditions of the gas turbines and HRSGs full load operation, plus a solar heat input of 58.7
      MJ/s and 15°C ambient dry bulb temperature the steam turbine generator output will be 171
      MWe. The turbine has a high pressure section that receives steam from the high pressure
      superheaters, an intermediate pressure section that receives reheat steam from the
      intermediate pressure reheaters and a low pressure section that receives steam from the low
      pressure superheaters and the high pressure turbine section.
     HRSG: At full load operation of the gas turbines the two Heat Recovery Steam Generators
      will each receive about 504 kg/s flue gas from the gas turbines at temperatures of about
      510°C. The flue gas leaves the HRSGs at about 100°C. Each HRSG includes one low
      pressure economizer, low pressure evaporator, deaerator and low pressure superheater for
      feed off the steam turbine low pressure section; one intermediate pressure economizer,
      intermediate pressure evaporator, intermediate pressure steam drum, two intermediate
      pressure re-heaters and one intermediate pressure superheater for feed off the steam turbine
      intermediate pressure section; and two high pressure economizers, one high pressure
                                               44
         evaporator, high pressure steam drum, and three high pressure super-heaters for feed of the
         high pressure section of the steam turbine. The HRSG is designed and delivered by
         CERREY of Mexico. The solar generated steam will be injected into the high pressure
         steam drum at about 93 bar pressure.
        Solar Field: The parabolic trough collector design installed at ABM utilizes the Abengoa
         first generation improvement of the EuroTrough collector. Each collector has an aperture
         area of 818 m2. The collectors exposed to higher wind loads due to their position in the
         outer rows of the solar field are structurally reinforced. The EuroTrough collector structure
         is assembled in a hall close to the site from pre-fabricated low cost steel elements that can
         often be manufactured locally all over the world43. The pre-fabricated steel parts of torque
         box frames and plates, cantilever arms and HCE supports are then delivered locally by a
         sub-supplier and assembled by local workers under supervision at the site. The assembly is
         organized in one line using several fixed jigs for accuracy. Quality control of the assembled
         SCE steel structure is done on a photogrammetric measuring station. Final steps in the
         assembly hall are mirror mounting and SCE balancing.
        The collector design uses two different pylon designs: the regular pylon at the end and
         between two collector elements and drive pylon at the center of a full solar collector
         assembly (SCA). Similar to the collector steel structure and the pylon foundation, the
         pylons are designed as reinforced or regular according to the position in the solar field.
         Solar mirrors for the plant are of tempered glass supplied by the Abengoa subsidiary
         Rioglass. The collector absorber tubes (or “receivers?) installed at the plant are from
         Schott Solar.
        Mirror washing: A mirror-washing truck of Abengoa design is used to wash the mirrors on
         a scheduled basis.       The machine used demineralized water (of an intermediate
         demineralization level) sprayed on mirrors while being scrubbed with soft rotating brushes.
         A separate spray also impacts the receiver. As presently understood, the truck makes 4
         passes on each individual collector (2 each way) or row before moving to the next. Each
         mirror panel is washed on approximately a 30-day interval. The washing is conducted
         during the long day shift, and not confined to night-time hours as adopted in U.S. plants.
        HTF System: The Heat Transfer Fluid system is designed for a HTF mass flow of Solutia’s
         VP1 of 440 kg/s at 100% load. The solar field is divided by a main header which leaves the
         power block area at the southern end, splits into an east and a west section and separates the
         solar field into a northern collector loops area with the power block in the middle and a
         southern collector loops area. The northern part comprises 25 loops of four collectors per
         loop, and the southern part 31 loops. The HTF is pumped into the solar field by 3x50%
         HTF main pumps, the HTF flow is separated by control valves between the east and the
         west section, HTF flow through the loops is controlled per individual adjusting automatic
         valves. The HTF system of the plant includes an ullage and regeneration system. The ullage
         system consists of one ullage vessel, one ullage heat exchanger, one closed cooling cycle
         with the required coolers and pumps. Furthermore the HTF system includes one expansion
         vessel and two overflow vessels with overflow pumps, a HTF filter, a HTF storage vessel
         with storage pumps and a freeze protection unit with natural-gas-fired freeze protection
         heater and freeze protection pumps.
        Solar Steam Generators: Enthalpy received by the HTF from the solar field is used for
         steam generation in two trains each consisting of one tube and shell economizer and two
         evaporators, also in tube and shell design. Saturated steam is produced and fed into the high



43
     At ABM the steel structural elements were imported by Abengoa.

                                                    45
    pressure steam drum of each train from where it is forwarded to the HRSGs for further
    superheating.
   Water Supply System: About 140 m3/h of raw water will be pumped to the plant from the
    three different wells that exist in the proximity of the plant. In the water treatment system
    the water is treated by clarification, filtration, reverse-osmosis (RO) and ion exchange. The
    auxiliary cooling system uses clarified water; the mirror washing water is from RO water
    and the steam cycle make-up is be from demineralized water. The plant includes a water
    treatment plant which treats HRSG blow down before discharge to the evaporation pond.
   Cooling System: Exhaust steam is condensed by an air-cooled steam condenser. The air-
    cooled steam condenser is implemented with 24 ventilators blowing ambient air through
    the heat transfer surfaces which is used as the heat sink. This technology was applied to
    save about 80% of the water that would otherwise be needed for heat rejection for the plant.
   Other: The power block area is located in the middle of the northern part of the solar field
    with collector loops in the east and the west. The HV-switchyard as well as the effluent
    water treatment, the administration building and the evaporation pond are located in the
    north of the plant outside the power block area. The power generation voltage level at
    steam turbine generator and gas turbine generators is 14.5 kV and power evacuation
    voltage level is 225 kV. Station loads will be fed from the 6.6 kV medium voltage
    switchgear. Emergency power supply is designed with uninterruptible power supply units
    and diesel generators.




                                              46
Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Noureddine Bouzaher                Senior Energy Economist     MNSSD              TTL
Charles Rachid Bouhamidi               Financial Analyst       MNSSD
Lizmara Kirchner Sterling              Financial Analyst       MNSSD
Rene Mendonca                           Power Engineer         MNSSD          Consultant
Siaka Meryem Benchemsi         Financial Management Specialist MNACS
Moez Bakayoko                  Financial Management Specialist MNACS
Samia Msadek Makhlouf          Financial Management Specialist MNACS
Armando Araujo Ribeiro              Procurement Specialist     MNSSD          Consultant
Dominique Bichara                       Senior Counsel         LEGMS
Khalid Boukantar                      Program Assistant        MNSSD
Sophie Jablonsky                 Junior Professional Associate MNSIF
Dahlia Lotayef                     Environmental Specialist    MNSSD
Yaa Oppong                        Social Safeguards Specialist MNSSD
Tiguist Fisseha                   Social Safeguards Specialist MNSSD
Fanny Missfeldt-Ringius            Environmental Economist     AFTEG
Rohit Khanna                        Bank GEF Coordinator       ENVGC       Adviser/reviewer
Chandrasekar Govindarajalu          Bank GEF Coordinator       ENVGC       Adviser/reviewer
Silvia Pariente-Dvaid              Senior Energy Specialist    MNSSD          reviewer
Supervision/ICR
Anas Abou El Mikias            Financial Management Specialist CICBR         Consultant
Armando Ribeiro Araujo              Procurement Specialist     LCSTR         Consultant
Pierre Audinet                    Senior Energy Economist      SEGES       TTL supervision
Khalid Boukantar                      Program Assistant        MNSSD
Mariana T. Felicio              Social Development Specialist  MNSSO
Rene Mendonca                          Power Engineer          MNSED          Consultant
Adnane Benabdelkrim                Environmental Specialist    MNSSD          Consultant
Silvia Pariente-David              Senior Energy Specialist    MNSEG
Roger Coma-Cunill                     Energy Specialist        MNSSD      TTL supervision/ICR
David Kearney                           CSP Specialist         MNSSD         Consultant
Tayeb Amegroud                         Power Engineer          MNSSD         Consultant

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY96                                                                     2.02
  FY97                                                                    12.67
  FY98                                                                    18.14
  FY99                                                                    72.87
                                           47
  FY00                           43.09
  FY01                           25.19
  FY02                           52.67
  FY03                           16.96
  FY04                           12.16
  FY05                           76.17
  FY06                          127.24
  FY07                           89.63
  FY08                            0.00
                  Total:        548.81
Supervision/ICR
  FY96                            0.00
  FY97                            0.00
  FY98                            0.00
  FY99                            0.00
  FY00                            0.00
  FY01                            0.00
  FY02                            0.00
  FY03                            0.00
  FY04                            0.00
  FY05                            0.00
  FY06                            0.00
  FY07                            0.00
  FY08                           54.51
 FY09                            28.49
 FY10                            42.34
 FY11                            20.48
 FY12                            41.27
 FY13                            57.56
                  Total:        244.65




                           48
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                      49
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                   50
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR

   I.      Summary of Borrower’s ICR

The following corresponds to the conclusions of the ONEE’s evaluation report sent to the
Bank on February 2013 (translated from the original French version):

“The project has achieved its objectives in its entirety despite the difficulties encountered
during design and operation of the plant. The difficulties can be summarized as follows:

       High technological risks during project development
       Managing multiple design options of the project: 250 MW and 472 MW
        configurations, 20MW and 30 MW solar field capacities, wet cooling, dry
        cooling…
       Exceptional Severe Weather: difficulty of transporting equipment, restricted
        access to the site, work stoppages due to the difficulties of access to work areas
       Strong wind storms
       Accidents during transport of heavy equipment: Module of Gas Turbine No. 2
        (“TG 2?), main transformer of Gas Turbine No.1 (“TG1?).
       Fire occurred in the air filter of the gas turbine No. 2
       Incident of the starting system static (SSD) of the gas turbine No. 1;
       High vibration in the stator generator of Gas Turbine No.2 before commissioning
        and within guarantee period
       Insufficient gas questioned the project and construction issues have dominated
        operational issues before commissioning of the plant.

Regarding the lessons learned from the project, we believe that the anticipation spirit in
such a project is the key to success. In the case of Ain Beni Mathar, we can mention:

       Site selection
       EPC turnkey contract
       Mitigation of risk by the addition [to the O&M contract] of 3 more years
        operating without construction guarantee
       Choice of dry cooling with an alternative wet cooling option
       Adoption of hourly guarantees and establishment of a monitoring system in
        accordance with the contract.

In conclusion, the operational stakes of the ISCC plant are high and several challenges
still need to be overcome to:

       Maintain the equipment and keep performance during the remaining life of the
        project
       Capitalize on industrial experience regarding the integrated solar combined cycle
        technology.?



                                             51
   II.    Borrower’s comments on draft ICR

After consideration by the team of the Ain Beni Mathar project draft completion report
transmitted on June 4, 2013, we inform you that we have no specific comments on the
said report except for the map on page 60 [French translated version] which shows the
project site. We will send you another map shortly for your consideration.




                                         52
Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    53
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents

   -   Audinet P., Marz T., “Lessons for Solar Power Development from the World’s
       First Integrated Solar Combined Cycle Project?, 2011.

       AT Kearney, ESTELA, “Solar Thermal Electricity 2025?, June 2010
   -   Brakmann G., Badaoui N-E. (ONEE), Dolejsi M., Klingler R., “Construction of
       ISCC Ain Béni Mathar in Morocco?, 2010 SolarPACES, Perpignan, France.

   -   Climate Investment Funds, “CTF Investment Plan for Concentrated Solar Power
       in the Middle East and North Africa region – Supplemental document?. October
       28, 2010

   -   IRENA, “Concentrating Solar Power?, Renewable Energy Technologies: cost
       analysis series, June 2012

   -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and International Finance
       Corporation, “Country Partnership Strategy for the Kingdom of Morocco for the
       period FY10-13?, Report No. 50316-MA.

   -   SolarPACES 2006, “ISCC Ain Beni Mathar Integrated Solar Combined Cycle
       Power Plant in Morocco?, Brakmann, Georg (Fichtner Solar), Berrehili,
       Mohammed (ONEE), Filali, Khalid (ONEE).

   -   SolarPACES 2010, “Construction of ISCC Ain Béni Mathar in Morocco?,
       Brakmann, Georg (Fichtner Solar), Badaoui, Nour-Eddine (ONEE), Doleisi,
       Miroslav (Fichtner Solar), Klingler, Roland (Fichtner Solar)

   -   World Bank, GEF, “Assessment of the World Bank/GEF strategy for the Market
       Development of Concentrating Solar Thermal Power?, 2006.

   -   World Bank, “Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Grant from the Global
       Environment Facility Trust Fund in the Amount of US$ 43.2 million to the Office
       National de l’Electricité of the Kingdom of Morocco for an Integrated Solar
       Combined Cycle Power Project?, Report No: 36485-MO, February 20, 2007.

   -   World Bank, “Eighth Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA8), Fiscal Year 2006-
       2007?, 2008

   -   World Bank, “Aide Memoire – Supervision mission of Ain Beni Mathar ISCC
       plant?, July 13-16 of 2009 (in French)




                                         54
                                                             10° W                                                                                                                5° W                                                                                                  0°
                                                                                                                                                           SPAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                       M ed it e rra ne a n                                   Se a
                                                                                                                                                    Tangier

                                                                                                                                                                                Tétouan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Al Hoceima                                                    Algiers                 35° N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Nador
                                                                                                                                             Larache                              Chechaouene
                                                MOROCCO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a
             35° N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       uy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Oujda




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ulo
                                                                                                                                                                            Ouezzane




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mo
                                                                                                                                                                                        Taounate




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Taourirt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ou
                                                                                                                                                                      Oued
                                                                                                                                                                                Sebour




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ts.
                                                                                                                                   Kenitra                     Sidi                                           Taza
                                                                                                                                   Sale                                               Fès                                                   Ain Beni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ain Bini
                                                                                                                                                              Kacem




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        s M
                                                                                                                         RABAT                                                                                                               Mathar
                                                                                                                                                                                Meknès
                                                                                                                                                     Khemisset




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tla
                                                                                                 Casablanca                                                                           Ifrane




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A
                                                                                                                                                                        Azrou
                                                                                                                           Ben Slimane
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Boulemane                                                                      ALGERIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s




                                                                                                                                                                                                           le
                                                                                 El Jadida             Berrechid

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  i n




                                                                                                                                                                                                         d
                                                                                                                                                                                                         id
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                            Settat                                                                                                                                                                   El Bayadh
                                                                                                                                                   Oued Zem                 Khenifra                 M
                                                                                                                               Khouribga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t a                              Bouârfa

                                                                                                                     ue                                                                                       n


                                                                                                                     O
                                 AT L ANT I C                                                                          d Er
                                                                                                                            R   bia
                                                                                                                                                          Beni Mellal                                    u                                                            Figuig

                                                                         Safi                                                                                                                     o
                                    O CE A N                                                              El Kelaa
                                                                                                       des Srarhna                                                                          M
                                                                                     Oued Tennsift
                                                                                                                                                 Azilal                     s                              Errachidia
                                                                                                                                      Demnate              a
                                                                                               Marrakech                                     l                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0°
                                                          Essaouira
                                                                                       Chichaoua    Tahannaout                 t                                                                                                                   Tindouf


                                                                                                               A                                                                                                                                                   MOR OC C O
                                                                                                               Jebel Toubkal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I N T E GR AT E D S OL AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                RY
                                                                                                               (4,165 m)     Ouarzazate
                                                                                                                                                               O
                                                                                                                                                                                                           DA                               COM B I N E D CY CL E POW E R
                                                                                                                                                                                                    UN
                                                                                                                         ts.                                   u ed
                                                                                                       s
                                                                                                 us                                                                Dr                           O
                                                                                               So                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT SITE
                                                                                          Oued                       M                                Zagora            a
                                                                                                                                                                      a




                                                                                                                                                                                            B
                                                               Agadir
                                                                                                            as
                                                                                   Taroudannt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                       tl
                                                                                                                                                                                      TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             30° N
             30° N                                                                               A                                                                                     A                                                                     PROVINCE OR PREFECTURE CAPITALS*
                                                                                             i                                                                              XIM
                                                                                          nt                     Tata                                      APPRO                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                        Tiznit        A                                                                                                                                                                      RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAIN ROADS
             This map was produced by                        Ifni                                                                                                               ALGERIA                                                                      RAILROADS
             the Map Design Unit of The
             World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROVINCE OR PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
             colors, denominations and                                                                                                                    0           50              100        150          200 Kilometers
             any other information shown                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                           Goulimine




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 34713R
             on this map do not imply, on
             the part of The World Bank
             Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                   0                      50                  100                150 Miles                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
APRIL 2013




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (Approximate)
                                                                       Draa
             legal status of any territory,
             or any endorsement or
                                               Tan-Tan    Oued                                                                                                                                                                                      *Province or Prefecture names are the same
             acceptance of such                                                                 To
             boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                5° W                                                 their capitals.
                                                                                             Tindouf
