Report No. 270a-NEP                                                             FILE  COPY
Nepal
Water Supply and Sewerage Project
April 10, 1974
Asia Projects Department
Water Supply Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1, 1974)
Currency Unit             Nepalese Rupee (NRe)
NRe 1.00             =    100 Paisa
US$ 1.00             =    NRs 10.56
US$ 1 million        =    NRs 10.56 million
NRe 1.00             =    US$ 0.09
NRs 1 million             US$ 94,700
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1      =  Liter (1 liter = 0.26 US gallons)
1/cd   =  Liter per capita per day
m3     =  Cubic meter or 1,000 liters (1,000 liters = 264 US gallons)
1/sec  =  Liter per second (0.035 cubic feet per second)
mm     =  Millimeter (0.03937 inch)
m      =  Meter (3.28 feet)
km     =  Kilometer (0.62 mile)
ha     =  Hectare (10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
HMG    =  His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICM    =  Indian Cooperative Mission
MWP    =  Ministry of Water and Power
ODA    =  United Kingdom Overseas Development Administration
UNDP   =  United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF = United Nations International Children's Emergency
Fund
WD     =  Department of Water Supply and Sewerage of
Ministry of Water and Power
WHO    =  World Health Organization
WSSB   =  Water Supply and Sewerage Board
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 to July 15



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF A
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..............................    i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ........................................                      1
II.  THE SECTOR             .................................                       2
Present Situation .....            ........................ .        2
Sector Development  ....         .............................       2
Sector Organization  .....           .......................         3
III.    THE PROJECT  ........             ..................................         4
Description of the Project  .... ...........                         4
Cost Estimates  .................................                    6
Amount of IDA Credit  ..... ..............                           8
Procurement    ................................ .                    8
Disbursement  ......        ..............................           8
Design, Construction and Supervision
of Construction  ......         ...................   .....        9
Land Acquisition and Wayleaves  ..                ................   9
Environmental Impact  ..... ..............                           9
IV.    JUSTIFICATION  .......            .................................         9
V.    THE BORROWER AND BENEFICIARY  .....               ....................     11
The Borrower  ....................................                  11
The Beneficiary ......            ..........................           11
Organization and Management  .................            ....      11
Management Systems  .........................        ... .          12
Staff            ...........................................        12
Training  .......          .................................        12
Audit            ...........................................        13
This report was prepared by Messrs. A. Saravanapavan and L.V. Smith.



-2-
Page No.
VI.   FINANCE ............     ..................................    13
General .........     ................................   '13
Budgetary and Accounting Systems ....      ............   13
Past Performance and Present Financial Position  ..  13
Financing Plan       ...................................  14
Water and Sewerage Charges ...       ....................  16
Connection Charges .     ..............................  16
Present Water Charges ......    ......................  16
Future Water and Sewerage Charges .............  ...  16
Tariff Study .......     ..............................  17
Future Finance . .... .........................        17
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....      ............  18
ANNEXES
1.   Description of the Project - Water Supply
2.   Description of the Project - Sewerage
3.  Project Cost Estimates
4.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5.   Construction Schedule
6.  Existing Facilities - Water Supply
7.   Existing Situation - Sewerage
8.  Population Projections and Water Demand
9.  Population and Water Production Statistics and Projections
10.   Internal Financial Rate of Return
11.   Organization Chart of the Water Supply and Sewerage Board
12.   Consolidated Summary Income and Expenditure Statements
13.   Consolidated Cash Flow Statements
14.   Consolidated Balance Sheets
15.  Assumptions for Financial Projections
16.   Schedule of Present Water Charges
17.   Schedule of Proposed Water and Sewerage Charges
NAGPS
IBRD 10643  - NEPAL: Existing and Planned Water Supplies
IBRD 10644R - KATHMANDU VALLEY: Existing Water Supplies
IBRD 10645  - KATHMANDU WATER SUPPLY: Existing and Proposed Distribution
System
IBRD 10646R - POKHARA: Existing Water Supplies and Proposed Project
IBRD 10647  - KATHMANDU SEWERAGE: Existing and Proposed Sewerage System



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF A
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a project for improving and
extending water supply and sewerage facilities in Kathmandu, (the capital
of Nepal) and Lalitpur and water supply facilities in Kathmandu Valley and
Pokhara - a major regional town with potential as a tourist center. The
project, to be executed over four years, is the first stage of the Government's
long-range plan for the development of water supply and sewerage in the
project area. The estimated cost of the project is US$10.4 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of US$6.5 million equivalent. An IDA
credit of US$7.8 million equivalent is proposed to cover about 75% of the
project's costs.
ii.       The project is based on studies financed mainly by the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP), with the World Health Organization
(WHO) as executing agency and carried out by Binnie & Partners, London.
iii.      The credit will be made to His Majesty's Government of Nepal
(HMG) and onlent to the Water Supply and Sewerage Board (WSSB) at 6%
for a term of 25 years, including five years of grace on payment of principal
and interest. WSSB is a semi-autonomous government entity, recently es-
tablished to take over responsibility for the sector from the Department of
Water Supply and Sewerage (WD).
iv.       The project has a high priority because of the inadequate service
to the growing population in the project area and the health hazards involved
in the present systems. The project will rehabilitate and extend existing
water supply and sewerage systems to provide (1) a safe and uninterrupted
piped water supply for the principal urban areas in Kathmandu Valley and
Pokhara (2) waterborne sewerage for certain areas of Kathmandu and Lalitpur
with modern sewage disposal facilities thereby reducing pollution of the
Bagmati River, and, will develop WSSB as a viable entity capable of taking
responsibility for water supply and sewerage throughout Nepal.
v.        The water supply component of the project includes the development
of two new spring sources for Kathmandu and Pokhara; a pumping station;
transmission and distribution main extensions and replacements; a service
reservoir; improvements and repairs to existing systems; service connections
and meters. With a planned reduction of wastage and leakage from the current
50% of supply to 35%, these facilities will be adequate to meet average day
requirements of water supply in the project area up to about 1981. Six
new wells with an estimated yield adequate to meet peak day requirements for
Kathmandu are also included in the project. The sewerage component of the
project includes about 40 km of sewers, a pumping station and two waste
stabilization lagoons for Kathmandu and Lalitpur. WSSB staff will be trained
in administration, accounting, engineering, operations and maintenance;



- ii -
adequate facilities, equipment and vehicles are included in the project for
this purpose. Special equipments required for reducing leakage and wastage
and for collecting hydrological data are also provided.
vi.       Of the estimated total project cost of NRs 109.5 million (US$10.4
million equivalent), NRs 51.7 million (US$4.9 million equivalent) is for
water supply, NRs 49.4 million (US$4.7 million equivalent) is for sewerage
and NRs 8.4 million (US$0.8 million equivalent) for tariff and second stage
feasib4lity and project preparation studies. The proposed credit will cover
the US$6.5 million equivalent foreign exchange component of the project cost
and US$1.3 million representing 34X of the local costs. The remaining
NRs 27.2 million (US$2.6 million) will be financed by HMG.
vii.      All contracts will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines, except for minor
civil works, equipment and electrical connections from the grid, totalling
about US$250,000 equivalent.
viii.     HMG has agreed in principle to increase water charges by about
60% in FY1975. With the increased charges the return on average net fixed
assets in service for water supply would be about 8% in FY1981. HMG has
also agreed to levy a sewerage charge in FY1978 when the sewerage service
comes into use and to maintain water and sewerage charges at a level to
provide revenues sufficient to produce an annual rate of return on all of
WSSB's net fixed assets in operation of at least 5% in FY1981 increasing to
at least 8% in FY1987 and thereafter.
ix        The expected internal financial rate of return on the project
is about 7.6%.
X.        The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$7.8 million
equivalent.



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF A
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMG) has requested an IDA
credit to help finance the improvement and extension of the water supply
and sewerage facilities in Kathmandu Valley including Kathmandu itself and
water supply in Pokhara, a major regional center. The project is estimated
to cost NRs 109.5 million (US$10.4 million). The proposed credit of US$7.8
million will cover about 75% of the project costs; the remainder will be
financed by IIMG.
1.02      The project is based on the following four studies carried out by
Binnie & Partners, London:
(a)  A master plan and feasibility studies for water supply
and sewerage for Kathmandu, Lalitpur and Bhaktapur
financed by UNDP with WHO as executing agency;
(b)  Preliminary studies of water supply and sanitation in the
villages of Kathmandu Valley financed by HMG;
(c)  A study presently under review by WHO of water and sewerage
sector in Nepal financed by UNDP; and
(d)  Feasibility studies of water supply and sewerage for four
regional centers, including Pokhara, financed by HMG.
1.03      Additional follow up studies to the master plan and feasibility
studies are being carried out by Binnie & Partners. HMG is financing these
studies which include an exploratory groundwater test drilling program.
1.04      Following a project identification mission in December 1971,
three IDA pre-appraisal missions visited Nepal in April, July and December
1972 to determine the scope of the project, the project entity and to ex-
pedite project preparation. An appraisal mission composed of Messrs. A.
Saravanapavan and L.V. Smith visited Nepal in May/June 1973. In November
1973 a further visit was made and the financial data updated. After a
review by the mission, the project components were defined and the con-
struction program was rescheduled. This report is based on information
provided by HMG, Binnie & Partners' draft reports of the various studies,
and the mission's findings.



- 2 -
II. THE SECTOR
Present Situation
2.01      Nepal, with a population of 11.2 million and an area of 141,000
sq km is almost rectangular in shape, about 800 km long, and lies parallel
to the main Himalayan range of mountains. About two-thirds of the land
area is taken up by high mountains and the lower slopes and the remaining
one-third -- a narrow strip to the south, called the Terai -- is the border-
line of the Indo Gangetic plains (see Map IBRD 10643).
2.02      About 10% of the population live in the Himalayan region, 50% in
the hills of the lower slopes and the remainder in the Terai. Severe pressure
on land in the hills has increased southward migration and strained the lim-
ited utility services, such as water supplies, in some of the foothill and
Terai towns where such services are available.
2.03      Though rainfall is generally substantial, varying between 1,000 mm
and 1,600 mm per annum, it is unevenly distributed with heavy concentrations
in the June/September monsoon season. Five rivers, Kankai Mai, Karnala,
Bagmati, Rapti and Babai follow this monsoon regime, but do not go completely
dry, as do numerous smaller rivers. The four main rivers in the coumtry, the
Mahakali, Karnali, Narayani and Sapta Kosi are all snow-fed and have a sus-
tained flow. Surface water resources are therefore plentiful.
2.04      In recent years test well drilling has indicated the availability
of groundwater in limited quantities, as a possible source both for irriga-
tion and community water supplies. Groundwater may prove an economic interim
solution for some community water supplies, but further test drilling is
needed to confirm availability. In the long term surface water sources will
have to be developed.
2.05      At present only about 5% of the people of Nepal living in some
58 communities have piped water supplies, and the majority of these live
in the larger urban areas. Apart from a small section of Kathmandu none
of these communities have sewage disposal facilities.
Sector Development
2.06      Urban water supplies are in most cases inadequate.  Several towns
and villages are supplied from perennial streams, and water intakes have
been sited to obtain relatively safe untreated gravity supplies. The
quantity of such water is limited. Adequate alternative river sources are
available, but the water will have to be pumped from river intakes and will
require full treatment. The water systems in general are inadequate both
in terms of source and service reservoir capacity. Water supply hours are
consequently restricted. Tubewells have been badly designed or developed.
Standby pumping capacity is not available at the wells and spares are
inadequate. In the event of mechanical plant failure, the supplies have
to be discontinued.



2.07      Village water supplies are generally restricted to the provision
of public standpipes together with a small number of private connections to
hospitals and public buildings. In addition to the village water supply
schemes constructed by HMG (see para 2.10) there is a modest program (run
by a WHO expert with some U.S. Peace Corps and German volunteers) under
which aid is given to small rural communities in the form of materials and
technical assistance, to improve their water supply facilities. The number
of people served by village water supplies is unknown.
2.08      There are no proposals at present for providing water-borne
sewerage outside Kathmandu Valley or for improving rural sanitation. Pilot
projects have been initiated to provide earth latrines in model rural com-
munities. A considerable decrease in the incidence of hookworm has been
reported following the initiation of one such scheme. The improvement of
rural sanitation will depend mainly on education aimed at altering the
habits of the people.
2.09      Except for broad government guidelines for the preparation of the
annual development budgets and this project, there are no plans for the
development of the sector. However the sector study report contains
recommendations for the planned development of the sector up to 1987.
Sector Organization
2.10      Near the end of the last century the first water supply schemes
were ccnstructed by expatriate engineers in Kathmandu Valley and Pokhara.
Not until the middle of this century was an effort made to organize the
sector, when the Department of Irrigation and Water Supply under the
Ministry of Water and Power (MWP) was made responsible for construction of
water supply schemes. As the department lacked the needed technical manpower,
it has been assisted since 1954 by an Indian Cooperative Mission (ICM) in a
program for the construction of 9 urban and 14 rural water schemes. The
ICM program is almost completed and under another more recent technical
assistance program by UNICEF, about 87 rural water supply schemes serving
some 7,300 houses have been undertaken by the Land Development Department.
2.11      The responsibility for maintenance of water supply systems has
not been clearly defined. In two instances local authorities perform this
important function, but otherwise MWP has the responsibility for urban
schemes. For rural schemes no adequate organization exists at present.
2.12      The local authorities have been responsible for sewerage and
sanitation, but have not been able to perform this function satisfactorily
in most cases.
2.13      In 1972 E1MG separated the water supply function from the Department
of Irrigation and created a Department of Water Supply and Sewerage (WD).
In the following year 1MG created a Water Supply and Sewerage Board (WSSB)
to carry out the project (see para 5.02) and with the ultimate goal of
creating a corporation to be fully responsible for water supply and sewerage
in Nepal. WD continues to operate in cr-her areas at present.



- 4 -
2.14      The concept of paying adequate rates for water service has been
unknown in Nepal. Piped water is wrongly regarded as being freely available
in unlimited quantities, and wastage is therefore very high. As WSSB extends
its area of activities in the future and improves service, water charges
will have to be increased in all areas, if the services are to be
provided on a self-supporting basis.
2.15      It is not possible to forecast when WSSB will reach its ultimate
goal of taking responsibility for water supply and sewerage services through-
out Nepal as there is a general shortage of trained and motivated staff at
all levels. WSSB will need technical assistance for a few more years (see
para 5.07) and is presently obtaining this from the United Kingdom Overseas
Development Administration (ODA).
2.16      The project will have a significant role in shaping the future
development of WSSB and in helping to establish policies for its sound
management. Difficulties will have to be overcome, but as HMG has given
priority to the sector, reasonable progress may be expected.
III. THE PROJECT
Description of the Project
3.01      The project is the first stage (1974-1978) of a 25 year master
plan for water supply and sewerage in Kathmandu Valley together with facil-
ities to augment and extend the water supply of Pokhara. With facilities
to be provided by the project, the systems will be adequate to meet the
water supply requirements of the Valley and Pokhara until 1981; i.e. for
327,000 people, representing 95% of the population in the project area. The
provision of sewerage in the congested, popular tourist areas of Kathmandu
and Lalitpur will improve sanitation and public health and reduce the
pollution of the Bagmati river.
3.02      A detailed description of the project components is in Annexes 1
and 2 and illustrated in Maps IBRD 10644R to 10647. A summary is given
below:
A.  Water Supply
(i)  Development of the Pharping springs together
with three deep wells equipped with submersible
pumps and a pumping station to supply about
200 1/sec; appropriate pipelines including a
4.5 km steel transmission line to a break-pressure
tank, lime dosing and chlorination facilities at
Shainbu; minor repairs and replacements of
existing pipelines.



- 5 -
(ii)  Three new intakes and about 2 km connecting pipework
from Kali Khola springs, a collecting chamber and
4.7 km transmission pipeline and 3.6 km replacement
trunk pipeline to augment Pokhara water supply by
about 52 1/sec, including an exploratory well.
(iii)  Provision of about 4,500 m3 service storage at
Mahankalchaur; expansion and replacement of water
distribution network in Kathmandu, Lalitpur and
Pokhara (including installation of 60 km of various
diameter pipelines, house connections and 13,000
water meters).
(iv)  Extension of supplies to eight villages in the
Kathmandu Valley.
(v)  Improvement and repairs to existing reservoirs,
treatment plants or headworks; provision of staff
housing, a workshop, garage and a depot.
(vi)  Equipment for maintenance and leak detection; hydro-
logical equipment for data collection, billing
machines and vehicles.
B.  Ongoing Exploratory Drilling Program
Mi)  Two wells, connecting pipework of about 4.1 km to
provide about 52 1/sec for Kathmandu; one well to
provide about 12 1/sec for Bode and two exploratory
test wells at Sankhu. Submersible pumps and elec-
tricity supplies for all wells.
C.   Sewera e
(i)  About 3.0 km of reinforced concrete rectangular
outfall sewer with three storm overflows, 4.5 km of
trunk sewers and about 23 km of sewer laterals for
Kathmandu, with minor repairs to the existing system.
A pumping station at Kirtipur to lift flows averaging
830 1/sec, from the outfall sewer to waste stabilization
ponds at Dhobighat. Maintenance facilities and one
vehicle.
(ii)  A collection network of about 7.1 km for Lalitpur with
1.3 km of trunk sewers and waste stabilization ponds
at Kodku.
D.   Consulting Services
Consulting services including preliminary engineering for
parts of project not covered by the UNDP study, detailed
design, preparation of tender documents, evaluation of bids,



-6-
and supervision of construction of the project. Consulting
services and associated fees for the exploratory drilling
and well testing program. A tariff study in FY 1977 and
engineering studies for a second stage planned for 1978-81
for which US$800,000 equivalent has been provided.
E.   Training of Staff (see para 5.09).
Cost Estimates
3.03      The estimated costs of the project are summarized below and
detailed in Annex 3.
Item               Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total
…  -NRs millions- ---US$ 000's--
Water Supply
S;3ring and well sources     0.3      3.3       3.6      34       308     342
Pumping station               0.2     1.7       1.9      23       160     183
Pipelines                    4.5      9.7      14.2     430       914   1,344
Reservoirs                    1.0     1.2       2.2      90       117     207
Treatment plant im-
provements                  0.2      0.6      0.8       17        59      76
Meters and fittings          0.4      3.1       3.5      38       296     334
Vehicles and equipment       0.2      1.0       1.2      14        97     111
Staff quarters               0.2      0.1       0.3      21         7      28
Subtotal                 7.0    20.7      27.7      667    1,958   2,625
Sewerage
Sewers                       7.1      5.2      12.3     673       493   1,166
Sewer outfall                 1.3     1.6       2.9     123       153     276
Pumping station               1.1     2.9       4.0     106       273     379
Treatment plant              4.0      1.6       5.6     384       147     531
Vehicles and equipment        -       0.2      0.2       -         20,    20
Subtotal                13.5    11.5      25.0   1,286    1,086   2,372
Land                          4.7       -        4.7     437        -      437
Training                        -       -         -        4        -        4
Consulting Services            1.7    16.7      18.4     163    1,580   1,743
Contingencies
Physical                     4.2      6.4      10.6     391       609   1,000
Price                       10.3    12.8       23.1     973    1,217   2,190
TOTAL                   41.4    68.1    109.5   3,921    6,450  1



7-
3.04      The preliminary designs are based on assumed well yields which
have to be tested when the wells are drilled. The final designs will depend
upon the actual yields. If these yields are below those assumed in the
preliminary design, smaller pipes and pumps will be sufficient and the
cost may be reduced by about US$0.4 million equivalent. Subject to the
approval of IDA, this amount would then be utilized for developing alter-
natives to the well sources and extending WSSB's water supply and sewerage
systems. This approach is justified because of the urgent need for water
supply in Kathmandu. During negotiations, HMG agreed to expedite the
exploratory drilling and well testing program so that an early decision on
constructing wells can be made. Assurances were also obtained that feasible
alternative sources will be developed if the wells do not prove successful.
3.05      Of the estimated total project cost of NRs 109.5 million (US$10.4
million equivalent), NRs 51.7 million is for water supply, NRs 49.4 million
is for sewerage and NRs 8.4 million is for a tariff and second stage
feasibility and project preparation studies. The project cost estimates
exclude interest during construction of about NRs 9.0 million which would,
on completion of the project, be included in the accounts as an equity
contribution by HMG and the value of fixed assets increased correspondingly
(see para 6.13).
3.06      Construction costs are based on unit rates synthesized by the
consultants from basic cost components.  The data available about costs of
completed projects in Kathmandu, especially on water and sewerage, are very
limited and the unit rates were built up from the major cost components
including labor, materials, plant, incidentals, duties and taxes. During
appraisal the estimates were updated and duties and taxes were excluded at
the request of HMG.  HMG has a policy of exempting consultants and contractors
engaged on other large projects from payment of duties and taxes.  HM
proposes to follow a similar policy towards this project.
3.07      Unlike the Kathmandu water supply, for which cost estimates were
prepared on fairly detailed studies, the rest of the project is based on
preliminary studies. A reasonable physical contingency of 20% on both water
supply and sewerage has been added to both equipment and civil works. To
reflect recent increase in prices and general uncertainty about future price
levels, price contingencies on base line estimates for both local and
foreign costs have been included at the following rates:
Years
1974    1975    1976 onwards
Equipment              9%       7%        5%
Civil Works           12%     10%         8%
The foreign exchange component of the project costs was estimated on the
basis of expected direct imports and the estimated import content of locally
produced materials.



-8-
Amount of IDA Credit
3.08      The credit of US$7.8 million will be about 75% of the total cost
of the project which is estimated at US$10.4 million equivalent. US$6.5
million or 83% of the credit will finance foreign exchange expenditures. The
balance of US$1.3 million or 17% of the credit will finance local currency
expenditures.
Procurement
3.09      All procurement and civil works contracts will be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's Guidelines
except for minor contracts on (a) civil works for water supply and sewerage
extensions, house connections and metering, small repairs, improvements and
small buildings, and in providing electricity supplies, each costing below
US$50,000; and (b) equipment supplies each below US$25,000 where these are
unattractive for international competitive bidding. The total of these
contracts, will not exceed US$250,000, and may include work by force account.
3.10      Although there is no manufacturer of pipes in Nepal at present, a
factory for the production of sewer pipes could be established. A margin
of preference up to 15% or customs duty, whichever is lower, is proposed to
be granted to local manufacturers.
3.11      Hydrological equipment procured under the project will be installed
by the Department of Meteorology and Hydrology which will collect and process
the data for use by WSSB in further planning.
Disbursement
3.12      The percentages of expenditures to be financed from the IDA credit
are given below, and a quarterly disbursement forecast is shown in Annex 4:
Civil Work: 60% of total expenditure
Equipment and Supplies: 100% of the cif or ex-factory cost of goods
Consulting Services: 100% of consulting services
3.13      In view of the need for the early commencement of consultants'
work for preparing the project (see para 3.14), retroactive financing, not
exceeding US$260,000 equivalent, is proposed for the following:
(a)  Consultants' fees up to about US$190,000 equivalent
for the ongoing exploratory drilling program, pre-
liminary engineering and some items of final engineer-
ing for which the consulting agreement was reviewed
during pre-appraisal and signed by HMG on December 1,
1972; and
(b)  Equipment required for the drilling program up to about
US$70,000 equivalent to be procured by HMG, according
to IDA guidelines.



- 9-
Design, Construction and Supervision of Construction
3.14      WSSB's Manager-Engineering will be responsible for carrying  ou.:
the project. As WSSB will not have adequate staff for some time, HMG has
agreed to engage consultants acceptable to IDA to prepare detailed designs
and bid documents, evaluate bids and supervise construction. The construction
schedule covers a period of four years and is shown in Annex 5. Towards
the end of this period consultants acceptable to IDA will be employed for
studies required for the second stage project (para 3.02 D).
Land Acquisition and Wayleaves
3.15      The total time required for land acquisition may vary from four to
ten months, depending upon whether the acquisition is disputed or not. As
several sites, both for water supply and sewerage, have to be acquired and
wayleaves for pipelines obtained, a timetable for WSSB to take the appropriate
legal action on land acquisition and wayleaves has been agreed with HMG.
HMG also agreed during negotiations to transfer by July 15, 1975 to WSSB
from its Department of Power the sites and facilities at Pharping required
for the Project.
Environmental Impact
3.16      The Bagmati river, the principal water course flowing through
Kathmandu Valley, receives most of the liquid wastes and some of the solid
wastes of the area. The greatest contamination occurs from sewage flowing
into the river at Bhaktapur, Lalitpur and Kathmandu. The project will
reduce this pollution, especially by preventing raw sewage discharges into
the river, near popular bathing places. With the extension of the sewers
started in this project, sanitary conditions in the city will be improved,
the quality of the environment enhanced, and associated ecological and health
benefits realized.
IV. JUSTIFICATION
4.01      Kathmandu, the capital city, and neighboring Lalitpur and Bhaktapur,
all in Kathmandu Valley, are the country's most important cities with several
tourist attractions. Pokhara is an important regional center with tourist
potential. Despite these favorable economic prospects, the water supply
facilities in these cities barely provide a six-hour daily supply, and sani-
tary services are practically nonexistent. As the water supply is inter-
mittent it cannot be considered safe. Water-borne diseases such as typhoid
have a high incidence, and the danger of a cholera epidemic lurks in the
background (see Annex 7). Because of the lack of sewerage facilities,
debilitating faecal-borne diseases such as hookworm and roundworm are
common.  HMG has therefore given high priority to the project.  The existing
facilities are described in Annexes 6 and 7.
4.02      Without the project the water service hours will further decrease
as population grows, and public health, will worsen even further as a result



- 10 -
of an increase in water and faecal-borne diseases. The project provides for
a safe and continuous piped water supply for the principal urban areas in
Kathmandu Valley and in Pokhara and water-borne sewerage for areas of Kathmandu
and Lalitpur which urgently need it. Modern sewage disposal facilities
constructed under the project will reduce pollution of the Bagmati river.
The project will also develop WSSB as a viable entity capable of taking
responsibility for water supply and sewerage development throughout Nepal.
4.03      Projections of population and water demand are shown in Annexes 8
and 9. Because available data are insufficient, the population projection
for the next ten years assumes the same rate of growth as that recorded
between 1961 and 1971. As water supplies are now restricted to two service
periods of three hours each, the per capita water consumption was estimated
from available data and several conservative assumptions to be 70 1/cd for
Kathmandu and 40 1/cd for Pokhara if a 24-hour supply were available. These
estimates are low when compared with the following per capita water
consumption in other cities: Bangkok, 190 1/cd; Bombay, 110 1/cd; Dacca,
135 1/cd; Kuala Lumpur, 230 1/cd. About 55% of the served population in
Kathmandu and 86% in Pokhara are on standpipe supplies. The projected
demand has assumed that increased consumption will parallel population
growth plus an increase in per capita consumption of one-half to one 1/cd
each year, from 1977, to allow for some shift from standpipe to private
connections. Unaccounted-for water now estimated at 50% is expected to be
reduced to about 35% by 1981 in Kathmandu. The population served by the
system--284,000 and 29,000 in Kathmandu and Pokhara in 1971--is assumed to
increase to 384,000 and 43,000 respectively by 1981. In that year over 95%
of the population in the project area will benefit from a 24-hour supply.
The design demand projections represent the best possible estimate based
on the available data. Demand will be closely studied in 1977 and 1978, and
the timing of the next stage project adjusted suitably.
4.04      The facilities in the project were selected from several alterna-
tives as the least-cost solution for meeting the requirements of the project
area. The major components are the least-cost solution at discount rates of
5%, 10% and 15%.
4.05      l4ith the expected increases in water charges of about 60% in
FY 1975, the incremental financial returns on the project components are
estimated at 8% in Kathmandu and 2% in Pokhara. Once the sewerage facili-
ties in Kathmandu are in place in 1977, HMG proposes to levy a surcharge -
presently estimated at about 50% - on water, to cover sewerage costs, but
this surcharge may not cover the full cost of the additional service. To
help define the magnitude and structure of the future water and sewerage
tariffs appropriate to Kathmandu and Pokhara, the project provides for a
tariff study (see para 6.19). WSSB is committed to setting tariffs that
will progressively strengthen its financial situation (see para 6.21). But
the substantive justification for the project does not rest primarily on
the financial forecasts, but rather on the fact that a modest level of
water consumption is provided in the most economic manner and that the
health hazards of not doing so are serious. Moreover, Nepal's tourism
potential is one of the valuable assets of the country but to be exploitable
requires that reasonably safe heaL:h conditions prevail.



- 11 -
4.06      Further, benefits will arise from the development of a satisfactory
institution to operate the facilities provided by the project and to carry
out its objectives. The introduction of proper operating and management
systems, training of staff at all levels in good water supply and sewerage
public utility practice, and the creation of an organization with the neces-
sary power and authority to control these activities are all part of this
institution building.
V. THE BORROWER AND BENEFICIARY
The Borrower
5.01      HMG the Borrower will onlend the proceeds of the credit to WSSB
(see para 6.13).
The Beneficiary
5.02      WSSB the beneficiary was created by an HMG order in 1973 with
adequate powers to take over and operate the assets of the existing water
supply and sewerage systems in the Kathmandu Valley and Pokhara, to carry
out the project and other developments, to maintain its own funds and
accounts and to make its own rules. The rules required for WSSB's operations
will be issued following review by IDA. These should include rules to
ensure the connection of premises for which junctions are provided in the
street sewers under the project.
5.03      The Board of WSSB has seven members under the chairmanship of
the Secretary of the Ministry of Water and Power. The other six are the
Chief Engineer of WD, Project-in-Charge of WSSB who is the secretary and
representatives of the National Planning Commission Secretariat and the
Ministries of Finance, Home and Panchayats and Health.
Organization and Management
5.04      The Chief Executive Officer of WSSB is the Project-in-Charge to
whom the Board delegates most of its powers so that he may have the freedom
of action to build up WSSB into an effective organization. The two top
executives, next to the Project-in-Charge in the organization, are the
Manager-Engineering and Manager-Finance and Administration. The Manager-
Engineering assisted by the Chief of Design and Construction and the Chief
of Operations will be responsible for the construction of the project and
for operating and maintaining the systems. The Manager-Finance and
Administration will be responsible for the collection of revenue, accounts
and general administration. An Engineer/Manager with line responsibility
to the Manager Engineering will represent WSSB in Pokhara. The proposed
organization chart for WSSB is at Annex 11.
5.05      The consultants have recommended that a corporation (similar to
that set up for power) should eventually be established for water supply
and sewerage in Nepal. HMG has agreed to this in principle and the creation



- 12 -
of WSSB was a first step in this direction. HMG and IDA will keep the
matter under review with a view to agreeing on a timetable for the establish-
ment of the corporation. This is expected to be not later than the beginning
of FY 1978, by which time the project should have been substantially
completed and WSSB should have gained experience.
Management Systems
5.06      Systems for the management of WSSB and for the proposed corporation
have been ae.igned by Binnie & Partners, the consultants for the master
plan report. These include long range planning, budgetary controls and
reporting procedures. In respect of the accounting system, a comprehensive
set of procedures based on accrual accounting has been designed. Amongst
these is a much needed semi-mechanized system for billing and collections.
HMG agreed during negotiations that, management systems acceptable to IDA
will be introduced, and the local staff trained in the use of these systems.
Staff
5.07      The staff and offices of WD now serving Kathmandu Valley and
Pokhara areas are the base upon which the WSSB will be built. The position
of Project-in-Charge in WSSB is now filled by a person with acceptable
qualifications. During negotiations it was agreed that HMG will cause
WSSB to continue to fill this position with a person having appropriate
qualifications and experience. HMG also agreed to make arrangements
satisfactory to IDA for the provision of technical assistance to WSSB in
the fields of administration, engineering, and finance until the completion
of the project. In this connection HMG has already obtained from ODA two
expatriates for the positions of Manager-Engineering and Manager-Administration
and Finance. In addition, a Superintendent - Meter Workshops, a Super--
intendent - Leak Detection and Waste Prevention and a Superintendent -
Water Production have been requested by HMG.
5.08      HMG has also agreed during negotiations to transfer to WSSB from
WD such professional and technical staff as necessary and also to appoint
qualified Nepalis as counterpart staff. All remaining vacancies amongst
professional and technical staff will be filled in 1975.
Training
5.09      There are no facilities for professional training in Engineering
or Accounting in Nepal. Such studies must be pursued abroad either by HMG
scholarships or assistance from bilateral and multilateral agencies. During
negotiations HMG stated that WSSB professional staff will be given such
training. Local technical institutes provide courses for non-professional
staff, and there is provision in the project for training in water supply
operations and maintenance. This will be supplemented by on-the-job training
by the technical assistance staff (see para 5.07).



- 13 -
Audit
5.10      The audit of WSSB's accounts will be carried out by the Auditor
General.  This should be acceptable as the audit will be independent, and
the audit report will be reviewed by the Public Accounts Committee. During
negotiations, HMG agreed that an independent audit satisfactory to IDA will
be carried out and that the audit report will be submitted to IDA within six
months of the close of the financial year.
VI. FINANCE
General
6.01      Examination of the finances of the undertaking, and preparation
of the normal public utility financial projections have been seriously
constrained by the almost complete lack of basic data. The financial
information presented is based on the best efforts of the consultants, and
many assumptions; these have to be tested as the project and WSSB develop.
The financial and tariff policies will therefore be subject to constant
review and revision in the light of the progress made and the experience
gained.
Budgetary and Accounting Systems
6.02      At present WD obtains the funds required for construction, opera-
tion and maintenance of water supply facilities throughout Nepal from HMG
as quarterly grants from an approved annual budget. Revenues are paid into
the Nepal Rastra Bank to the credit of HMG's consolidated fund.  There is
no debt attributed to WD.
6.03      Financial records are kept on a government manual accounting sys-
tem on a cash basis, with the budget being the only means of financial
control. There is no effective cost control system, and the quarterly
operating budget allocations tend to become the minimum levels of expendi-
ture.
6.04      With the establishment of the WSSB and the arrival of the ODA
technical assistance staff, a start has been made on the creation of the
self-accounting organization with a commercial accounting system based upon
proper procedures and systems. The Manager-Finance and Administration has
taken charge of the financial management of WSSB, and is setting up the
procedures and systems.
Past Performance and Present Financial Position (FY 1971 to FY 1973)
6.05      The consultants have constructed full sets of accounts on an
,accrual basis for FY 1971 and FY 1972 from the WD cash records. These are
described as "approximate actuals". For FY 1973, they have similarly pre-
pared a set of accounts from incomplete information which are described



- 14 -
as "probable". One set of accounts has been constructed for Kathmandu,
including Lalitpur and Bhaktapur, and one set for Pokhara. These accounts
with minor modifications are combined, and are included in Annexes 12, 13
and 14. The assumptions for financial projections are in Annex 15.
6.06      The income and expenditure accounts show that during the three
years FY 1971 to 1973, all operating costs and part of depreciation were
covered. The schedule of water charges upon which these revenues were
collected has been in operation since 1966 (see Annex 16). No charges are
made for the sewerage service nor is there any expenditure on this other
than the nominal depreciation of very old assets (see para 6.08).
6.07      The revenues in FY 1971 were derived from monthly charges for some
600 metered connections and 10,400 unmetered connections. Another 1,600 un-
metered connections for HMG supplies and standpipes, were not being charged.
In FY 1973, the revenues are derived from an increased number of connections
of some 2,200 metered connections and 12,600 unmetered connections. Some
1,700 unmetered connections for HMG supplies and standpipes are not being
charged. Of the total connections, 15,600 are in the Kathmandu area and
900 are in the Pokhara area. No connections are metered in Pokhara. 3,300
of the Kathmandu consumers are connected to the sewerage system.
6.08      No depreciation is provided in the HMG accounting system but the
consultants have valued all assets at mid-1972 replacement costs and then
provided straight line depreciation. The rates of depreciation are from
2% for civil engineering works to 20% for vehicles (see Annex 15, para 6(b)).
Tha calculation of the value of the assets and of the depreciation is satis-
factory.
6.09      The balance sheets show that capital expenditure in each of
the three years averaging about NRs 1.8 million was financed by HMG and
is included in these statements as a contribution to equity. Accounts
receivable are about 20% of billings or about two months' charges. Consumers
are allowed one month to pay their bills without additional fee (see Annex 16,
para 3). The amount of receivables is reasonable in relation to the amount
of billings. All cash is paid into HMG's consolidated ftnd. On the liabili-
ties side, only two items appear, these are net losses accumulated from
FY 1970 when the consultants' calculations started and HMG's contribution
in the form of the opening revalued assets and towards the annual operating
costs and other development.
6.10      HMG agreed to transfer to WiSSB by July 15, 1974 all assets and
liabilities of the water supply and sewerage systems included in the project
in the Kathmandu Valley and Pokhara. The value of the assets so transferred
will be treated as a contribution to the equity of WSSB.
Financing_' lan
6.11      The financing plan for the years of the project's implementation,
FY 1974 to FY 1978, is summarized below:



- 15 -
US$
NRs     Equivalent      Percentage
…____-000's…
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Project (excluding consultancy for
Stage Two)                            101,075    9,572            75.2
Start of Stage Two Development/a         13,668    1,294            10.2
Other Construction by WSSB                6,300       597            4.7
Increase in Working Capital              13,320    1,261             9.9
Total Applications of Funds        134,363   12,724           100.0
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation/b               12,271    1,162             9.1
HMG Contribution                         30,455    2,884            22.7
Consumers' Contribution                   6,101       578            4.5
Proposed IDA Credit                      82,368    7,800            61.3
HMG Loan for Start of Stage Two            3,168      300            2.4
Total Sources of Funds             134,363   12,724           100.0
/a   Tariff and feasibility studies and detailed engineering for Stage Two
amounting to US$0.8 million are included in the proposed IDA Credit
and project cost estimates.
/b   There is no debt service during this period.
6.12      The proposed IDA credit of US$7.8 million equivalent will provide
about 61% of the financing required during the project period. HMG will
provide about US$3.2 million equivalent which is about 25% of the financing
required, mostly as equity. The balance of the financing amounting to
US$1.7 million equivalent or 14%, will be provided by internal cash genera-
tion and consumers' contributions. The financing plan is satisfactory.
6.13      HMG proposes to onlend the proceeds of the credit at 6% for 25 years
but not to charge interest for the first 5 years in order to reduce some of
the initial financial burden of WSSB.  In view of the expected life of the
civil engineering work to be carried out, and of the equipment to be purchased,
under the project, a 25-year onlending term for the credit is considered
reasonable. During the 4 year construction period interest not charged will
be calculated and included in the accounts as part of the asset cost and
will be treated as equity by HMG.  Up to FY 1973 HMG has been contributing
on the average about NRs 1.8 million a year to WD. During the remaining
period covered by the financial projections, HMG will contribute on the
average about NRs 5.6 million per year to WSSB. In return for these contri-
butions, HMG will have acquired an immeasurably superior water supply and
sewerage organization. During negotiations, HMG agreed that it would provide
all funds required to complete the project and that it will onlend the



- 16 -
proposed IDA credit to WSSB for 25 years at 6% with a 5-year grace period
on amortization and no payment of interest in the first 5 years.
Water and Sewerage Charges
Connection Charges
6.14      The project is intended to provide services to all income groups
but the future level of connection charges may discourage the participation of
lower income groups. These charges are estimated at NRs 180 for a water
connection, NRs 140 for a meter, and NRs 550 for a sewerage connection.
It is therefore proposed to study the connection charges as part of the
tariff study referred to in paragraph 6.19 and develop new methods of
payment to enable maximum utilization of the facilities provided by the
project. As the project develops, WSSB will introduce a house connection
program which will enable the present standpipe users to take individual
house connections and result in reducing the number of standpipes.
Present Water Charges
6.15      The present charges for water cover the operating costs and part
of the depreciation (see para 6.06) and no charges are made for standpipes
or HMG establishments and other establishments such as schools, etc. The
present charges are shown in Annex 16 and are based mainly upon the size
of the connection pipe with an additional charge for each extra tap or
outlet.
Future Water and Sewerage Charges
6.16      Prior to negotiations HMG proposed an elaborate schedule of
charges representing an increase of about 60% over present levels. A simpler
basis retaining the 60% overall increase was discussed during negotiations,
and the proposed schedule of water charges is shown at Annex 17. During
negotiations HMG agreed that by July 15, 1974 it would adjust and maintain
water charges at levels approved by IDA. HMG also agreed to levy a new
sewerage charge by July 15, 1977 when the sewerage system comes into use.
It is estimated that this will be 50% of water charges and this has been
assumed in the financial projections.
6.17      Government offices, schools and similar institutions which have
been previously exempted under the Water Tax Act from paying water charges
have now become liable for these charges under the order creating WSSB.
During negotiations the Nepalese delegation agreed to furnish a legal
opinion confirming this or taking such action as may be necessary to change
the existing legislation in the event of there being any inconsistency.
6.18      HMG, on the advice of their consultants, commenced metering of
connections in FY1971 with tne ob1ective of reducing wastage of water.
The projecc irncludes prfic: -:- 7. n-tinuation of a metering program
beginning with 2,000 :mecer  in EY1975 increasing to 6,500 meters in FY1978.
Tne aiecerin& Drogram will,  ffr.ther reviewed when the tariff study mentioned
ir  aragr ->h ' 29 is carr4e out.



- 17 -
Tariff Study
6.19      The objectives of the schedule of charges on which the final
projections are based are to allow WSSB to earn sufficient revenues to produce
a positive rate of return on net fixed assets from FY 1976 onwards while at
the same time giving the lower income groups benefits from the new and improved
services. As the schedule of charges is based upon the very limited inform-
ation available to the consultants who had to make many assumptions, there
is a need for a tariff and connection charge study. Such a study is
scheduled to take place in FY 1977 when adequate data on demand should be
available. The study will include the following:
(a) the ability and willingness of consumers to pay for the
services;
(b) an analysis of incremental system costs and the relation-
ship between these and the charges;
(c) the effect of metering in relationship to present and
future tariffs and the use of alternative methods to
reduce wastage;
(d) the effect of connection charges on the rate of new
connections and the introduction of easy payment terms;
(e) charges for standpipes and alternatives to these, e.g.,
bucket sales;
(f) alternative methods of charging for services, e.g.,
general taxation or property tax;
(g) the type of tariff to be used with the possibility of
introducing a stepped tariff; and
(h) an annual asset revaluation and its effects on an annual
tariff review.
Future Finance
6.20      The projections show that on the basis of the increased charges
and consumption increases assumed, there will be an increase in revenues
from NRs 1.6 million in FY 1974 to NRs 17.5 million in FY 1981 (see Annex
12). Net income will improve in the same period from a deficit of NRs 0.9
million to a surplus of NRs 4.0 million. The annual rate of return on
average net fixed assets in FY 1981 reaches 5% overall made up of an 8%
return on water supply assets and 0.2% on sewerage assets. The unit cost
of sewerage service is high in relation to income so that this service is
much less financially viable than water supply service. Net income from
sewerage service is in deficit throughout. The overall rate of return,
although low, will only be obtained by the imposition of very large increases
in the charges for water service and the imposition of an entirely new
charge for the sewerage service. The income from these charges will cover



- 18 -
all operating costs, and will also provide a contribution of about NRa 22
million for Stage II development and other works by FY 1981.
6.21      During negotiations HMG agreed that it will adjust and maintain
rates and charges for water and sewerage services to provide revenues
sufficient to produce an annual rate of return on the average value of
net fixed assets in operation of at least 1% in FY1976 to FY1978, at least
2% in FY1979, at least 3% in FY1980, at least 5% in FY1981 and increasing
to at least 8% in FY1987 and thereafter.
6.22      HMG has agreed that no further debt will be incurred by WSSB
without IDA approval, unless net revenues for the previous year provide debt
service coverage of at least 1.5 times maximum interest and amortization
payments in any future year.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During loan negotiations agreement was reached with HMG on the
following principal points:
(a)  The appropriate assets and liabilities will be transferred
to WSSB by July 15, 1974 (para 6.10);
(b)  HMG will provide the funds required to complete the project
and onlend the proceeds of the IDA credit to WSSB for 25
years at 6% with a 5-year grace period on amortization and
no payment of interest in the first five years (para 6.13);
(c)  The new charges for water supply and sewerage will commence
by July 15, 1974 and July 15, 1977, respectively (para 6.16);
(d)  A tariff and connection charge study will be carried
out by consultants (para 6.19); and
(e)  An annual rate of return on the average value of the net fixed
assets operated by WSSB will be achieved at a rate of
not less than 1% in FY 1976 to FY 1978, 2% in FY 1979,
3% in FY 1980, 5% in FY 1981 and 8% from FY 1987 onwards
(para 6.21).
7.02      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$7.8 million.
April 10, 1974



AZNEX I
Page 1
NEPAL
NEPAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Description of the Project - Water Supply
Introduction
1.        The water supply component of the project consists of the devel-
opment of two major sources, the Pharping springs for Kathmandu and the
Kali Khola springs for Pokhara, and the construction and connection of six
new deep wells at Pharping, Bansbari, Baniatar and Bode on the basis of
exploratory drilling and testing; improvements and repairs to all of the
existing schemes, new reservoirs at Mahankalchaur and extensions to the
water distribution network including service connection and meters. Sub-
stantial provision has been made for staff training, and facilitiLes required
to raise existing standards of management, operation and maintenamce includ-
ing office machines, vehicles, water distribution depots, staff quarters,
a workshop, a meter repair shop, garage, including equipment for the work-
shop, communications and leakage surveys. Hydrological equipment to facil-
itate data collection and public relations equipment for a campaign to
check water wastage is also provided.
2.        Only a six-hour period of supply is provided by the existing water
production and distribution facilities which cannot cope with present demand.
Wastage and leakage, estimated at about 50% in the six-hour supply period,
if left uncontrolled may rise to 75% if a 24-hour supply were possible. In
general, with the proposed reduction and control of wastage and leakage to about
35%, the project elements are designed to meet water demand in 1981. The
water supply and sewerage networks are part of Phase 1 of a master plan
prepared by Binnie & Partners, consultants under a WHO/UNDP study
with assistance by the Government of Nepal. Based on the study of the
short-term, average daily water demand in the project area it is estimated
that the total demand would be about 18,360,000 m3 in 1981. Alternative
means of meeting this short-term demand which were examined included the
development of spring sources and groundwater. The project, which was
selected as the most feasible and economic, provides for the development of
spring sources to meet most of the average day demand supplemented by
groundwater, if available in sufficient quantities, to fully meet peak
demand.  Extensive geological studies and limited pumping tests have
indicated the presence of groundwater, and HMG is proceeding with a
comprehensive well testing and exploratory drilling program to determine the
adequacy of the supply. The major elements of the water supply component
are described below:



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Pharping Springs Scheme
3.        Sources.  Pharping is situated to the south of Kathmandu about four
kilometers from Lalitpur. Three limestone springs issue from the hillside;
two of these, the Sat Mul and Sesh Narayan, supply a 16,000 m3 headpond serv-
ing the 500 kilowatt Pharping hydroelectric power station, and also local
irrigation and domestic needs. A lower spring, the Kutori Mul emerges near
tae power station and provides local irrigation needs in season.  HMG has
decided Fo shut down the power station, as it is redundant, and WSSB proposes
to develop the three springs to supply Kathmandu and Lalitpur. In the
absence of long term spring flow data, the minimum low flows were estimated
from a hydrological study of 20 years of rainfall data in the adjoining
Godavari catchment. This was compared with values for the Kutori Mul spring
measured during 1971/72, and frequency curves developed for all three springs.
The study indicated small annual variations of flow from deep-seated springs,
fed from a large volume of water in storage. Daily flows available
for water supply from all the springs for 85%, 75% and 50% of the time in
an average year are estimated to be about 176 1/sec, 201 1/sec and 313 1/sec
respectively, and daily average annual minimum flows are estimated to be:
- ---- -- -----1/sec…--------------------
Sat Mul  Sesh Narayan  Kutori Mul   Total
Average annual minimum                78           52          65         197
Less irrigation use                   19           13           8          41
Total available for
water supply                       59           39          58         156
4.        About two kilometers south of Kutori Mul an exploratory well drilled
recently and tested for 24 hours yielded about 35 I/sec. A longer test is
expected to confirm this yield and three such wells are included in the
project for conjunctive use with the spring flows. Hydrological studies of
the aquifer predict a daily yield of 93 1/sec from the proposed wells.
5.        Consultants to be appointed would make the yield test, and design
the scheme accordingly. The preliminary engineering studies and project
estimates have been prepared for a total daily minimum supply of about
249 1/sec, comprising: (a) 156 1/sec from the springs, and (b) 93 1/sec
from the wells. As 201 1/sec is available for 75% of the time from the
springs, the conjunctive use of groundwater is expected to be mostly for
meeting Kathmandu and Lalitpur peak demands in the later years of the
project.
6.        Pharping pumping station.  Submersible pumps would pump ground-
water from the three proposed wells through a pipeline with diameters ranging
from 200 mm to 350 mm, a distance of 1 1/2 km, to a central pumping station
to be constructed at Pharping near the hydroelectric power station. The
Pharping pumping station would also be fed by gravity from the Kutori Mul
spring through a new intake and 300-meter long, 250-mm diameter pipeline.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
The water received from these sources would be injected into a propose
transmission pipeline connected to the penstock of the hydroelectric power
station. The 500-mm diameter steel penstock and the headpond need minor
repairs, as do the existing intakes on the Sesh Narayan and Sat Mul springs.
Some realignment of the spring intake pipes requiring about 300 meters of
250-mm diameter pipework and works for protecting the source, including
public bathing and washing facilities are provided in the project. Three
electric pumpsets, electricity supplies, surge protection equipment, chlori-
nation and lime dosing equipment are provided in the Pharping pumping station.
Access roads, electricity supplies, and pump houses and communication equip-
ment are provided for the three Pharping wells.
7.        Transmission pipeline.  Several alternatives were studied by the
consultants before recommending the most economical solution for optimizing
the transfer of spring and groundwater from Pharping to a break pressure
tank at Shainbu near Lalitpur, and from there to the south of Kathmandu.
The selected 4.5-kilometer long, 350-mm diameter steel transmission pipeline
has a carrying capacity for supplying, by gravity, about 170 1/sec, almost
equal to the daily flows from the upper Sat Mul and Sesh Narayan springs
for 50% of the time in an average year. As these flows recede to 100 1/sec,
the lowest for 85% of the time in an average year, the supply would be in-
creasingly augmented by pumping from the lower Kutori Mul spring, and as
these flows also recede to about 57 1/sec--the minimum in an average year--
greater quantities would be pumped from the three Pharping wells to a maximum
based on the results of the yield tests to be carried out under the project,
and now estimated at 93 1/sec. The total capacity of the transmission pipe-
line would be about 249 1/sec which will discharge into a break pressure
tank at Shainbu.
8.        From the Shainbu break pressure tank the water is supplied to
Lalitpur and southwest Kathmandu. During appraisal it was agreed that
when detailed designs are prepared, alternatives for improving supplies
to the south and southeast areas would be also studied and the project
estimates have been prepared on this assumption. Provision has been made
for staff quarters and chlorination at Shainbu where a reservoir and treat-
ment plant are proposed in the future.
Kali Khola Springs Scheme
9.        Sources.  Of two alternative gravity schemes studied by the con-
sultants for Pokhara water supply the Kali Khola springs scheme is the most
economic for development in conjunction with groundwater. About five and
one-half kilometers northeast of the existing Amala Bisauni break pressure
tank, which receives water from the Bhote Khola scheme, are three perennial
springs; the Kali Muda, the Majhkuna and the Ghatte Khola meeting together
to form the Kali Khola, which is a tributary of the Sethi Khola. The only
reliable recorded gauging of these streams was made in May 1963 and gave a
flow of 80 1/sec during the dry season. Another dry season gauging made
by the Department of Waterworks in 1967 gave an unusually low flow of
18 1/sec. There is some uncertainty on whether these latter records (a)
referred to the Kali Khola springs and (b) are accurate. The consultants



ANNEX 1
Page 4
and WSSB plan to gauge the springs and make further hydrological studies
in the next dry season before preparation of detailed designs. A minimum
flow of 52 1/sec has been assumed in the project estimates. Because of the
long return periods and small annual variations of spring flows suggested
by the Kathmandu studies, this is a reaconable assumption. Should the
gaugings, however, indicate a minimum flow below 52 1/sec required to meet
average demand in Pokhara in 1981, the deficiency may be made up with
groundwater.
10.       A preliminary study of the known geology in Pokhara town between
the Bindhabasini reservoir and the Sethi Khola indicates the presence of
groundwater, and an exploratory test well is included in the project. If
groundwater of suitable quality is not available in the required quantities
more costly sources would be required in the future.
11.       Transmission pipeline.  Separate weirs and intakes sited above
possible sources of pollution on each of the three springs would be connected
by about two kilometers of 100 mm galvanized steel pipeline to a collecting
chamber near the confluence of the springs. A 225-mm diameter cast iron
or galvanized steel pipeline about 4.7 kilometers long would be laid from
the collecting chamber to Amala Bisauni break pressure tank and continued
as 200 mm for 3.6 kilometers to Bindhabasini reservoir. The project also
includes modifications to the break pressure tank, a chlorination house
with gas chlorinators, and a store. No treatment is proposed in this stage
of the project as the spring water is of good quality for most of the year,
and the sources would be protected from pollution.
Ongoing, Exploratory, Well Drilling Program
12.       On the basis of earlier recommendations of the consultants, HMG
and WSSB are now undertaking an exploratory drilling and well-testing
program, including three wells at Baniatar, Bansbari and Bode, and two other
wells at Sankhu to the northeast of Kathmandu. The objective of the program
is to establish the groundwater potential of the Valley, and for exploiting
this to the maximum in the future, before proceeding to more costly water
sources. Observation wells are also included in the program, and long-term
pumping tests are proposed for the Sankhu wells.
13.       The drilling rig used in the exploration belongs to WSSB, and
wages for local staff, operation and maintenance of the rig and minor expen-
ditures are in the WSSB budgez. Included in the project are well screens
and casings, electricity supplies, access roads, pump houses and submersible
pumps with connecting pipewo-k to existing transmission pipelines and con-
sultants' fees. Some of these items, including the fees of the consultants'
expatriate staff which inc]ide a driller and geologist are recommended for
retroactive financing.
14.       The y-½eld fron th:t Bansbari and Baniatar wells is expected to be
about 86 l/sec each.  nTe  .   well is expected to be about 12 I/sec,
s_-Iar to the welI that :     : .   A 1.9 km long, 200-mm cast iron pipeline
o'll d connect che Bansbar) 'eil to the Tri Bhim Dhara scheme and a 2.2-km



ANNEX 1
Page 5
long, 150-mm cast iron pipeline connect the Baniatar well to the Bir Dihara
scheme. The groundwater quality is expected to be suitable for conjunctive
use after aeration and simple chlorination. The Bode well would be con-
nected to the existing pipework with reclaimed pipes from the old well.
Service Reservoir
15.       The existing Mahankalchaur reservoir is leaking badly and does
not have adequate storage for meeting demand to the north and northeast
of Kathmandu. About 4,540 m3 capacity additional storage is to be provided,
beside Mahankalchaur reservoir, which has a similar capacity, but provides
only six hours supply under present operating conditions. With a reduction
of the present high rate of distribution system leakage and wastage to
35% of average demand, the storage required for peak hour consumption and
emergency reserves to provide a continuous supply has been estimated by the
consultants to be about 9,000 m3 at Mahankalchaur.
16.       Because of very low bearing pressures at the site, the consultants
are considering providing the new storage in four separate reservoirs.  When
this is provided the existing reservoir, after repair, may well have to be
operated at below the present top water level (TWL) of 1,339 m to prevent
another foundation failure.
17.       Also at a future date, if the Sankhu wells are successful, more
storage would be needed to serve northwest Kathmandu. The additional
storage capacity of about 4,500 m3 proposed by the consultants is justified
and is included in the project. The proposed reservoirs would be of rein-
forced concrete construction.
18.       An improved communication system between reservoirs and Pharping
pumping station is included to ensure better coordination and more economical
pumping.
19.       Distribution network extensions and improvements.  Some 60 km of
pipes ranging from 75 mm to 500 am are included in the project to provide
extensions in high growth areas of southern Kathmandu, northern Lalitpur
and southern Pokhara, reinforce trunk distribution pipelines and for the
replacement of old, leaky pipes in northern Pokhara:
Range of Pipe Diameter (mm)         500-200   350-200   225-200   150-75
Area                        -----------------km…---------------
Lalitpur                              7.5                            10.9
Lalitpur-to-Kathmandu link                       7.2                  1.1
Kathmandu                                        7.1                 18.3
Pokhara                                                     0.6       7.4
Total                            7.5       14.3       0.6       37.7



ANNEX 1
Page 6
20.       There may be slight reductions in the final diameters of the
larger pipelines resulting fromu detailed design. Because of the high fire
risk in the historic three- and four-story traditional timber buildings and
temples, about 220, 300 and 100 fire hydrants are included in the networks
in Lalitpur, Kathmandu and Pokhara. For the purposes of preparing the cost
estimates all pipes and accessories included in the project are assumed to
be of cast iron, the predominant material now used in Kathmandu. It is
expected that in the smaller pipe sizes, especially in Pokhara and in
village water supplies, PVC pipes would be found to be more suitable.
21.       A small quantity of pipes estimated at NRs 87,000 is required for
extensions to eight Kathmandu Valley village supplies and would be included
in the above list on completion of detailed designs. Four of the villages,
Budhanilkantha, Toukhel, Nayagaon and Gokarna are connected to the main
transmission pipelines of the four major schemes serving Kathmandu. Three
others, Satungal, Salamtar and Thecho have separate village schemes with
adequate supplies at the source for extending the distribution networks.
Chunikel village will be connected to the proposed Pharping springs scheme.
An estimated NRs 84,000 is provided in the project for installing the pipes
and erecting new standpipes by local contractors.
22.       Improvements and repairs to treatment plants.  Most of the exist-
ing headworks and treatment plants need improvement and repairs to increase
treatment efficiency and improve water quality. WSSB has commenced some
of these works and the project includes the following:
(a) Doodpokhari scheme
Chlorine and lime dosing equipment with building and store,
flow-measuring device, baffles and depth gauge.
(b) Sundarijal scheme
Lime dosing equipment, a flow-measuring device, meters and
gauges, and a chlorinator change-over panel. Pipework and
a pressure-reducing valve for a direct connection to the
hydroelectric power station penstock is also included.
(c) Tri Bhim Dhara scheme
Alum and lime dosing plants, filter controllers, standby
wash-water pumps, manometers, chlorine contact tanks and
chlorinator change-over panels, flow-measuring devices,
repairs to pipelines, filters and some minor works. Also
included are staff quarters for the water production super-
intendent at Balaju treatment plant.
(d) Lokhot scheme
Chlorination equiDment, chlorinator house and store.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
(e) Sundarighat scheme
'Flow-measuring device; modification to inlet and outlet
of settling tank, and baffles in treated water tank.
(f) Mahadev Khola scheme
Depth gauge and baffles.
(g) Bhote Khola scheme
Chlorination equipment, chlorinator house and store.
Repairs to Bindhabasini reservoir.
Leakage Survey and Repair
23.       The consultants have made preliminary leakage surveys in Kathmandu
and selected positions for 13 waste water meters and five bulk flow meters,
which are included in the project for installation in the distribution net-
work.
Size      Waste Water Meters        Bulk Flow Meters
(mm)      100              75    500    350    300    200
Kathmandu                        3               6      1
Kathmandu to Lalitpur link       -               -             2       1
Lalitpur                         3               1
24.       Because of the very high levels of wastage and leakage, publicity
equipment for a waste-prevention campaign has been provided in the project
together with equipment for leak detection and repair. WSSB plans to create
a special division for this activity to be initially headed by an experienced
Water Distribution Superintendent requested from ODA. To make this new
Leakage Survey and Repair Division effective, WSSB proposes creating four
other equally important divisions:
i. Metering Division
ii.   Service Connections Division
iii. Mainlaying Division
iv. Field Location and Records Division
The four divisions would be organized and also be initially headed by an
experienced Water Distribution Superintendent, requested from ODA. The
project provides for equipping these divisions to assist the leakage survey
division in preparing for the leakage surveys and in making the subsequent
repairs. Replacement of corroded pipes and repair of major leaks would be
done by contractors, while minor repair work would be done by the appro-
priate division, with materials presently in the inventory or to be provided



ANNEX 1
Page 8
under the project. One three-ton truck and three jeep-type vehicles are
also included in the project for these five new divisions.
Water Meters and House Connections
25.       To control the excessive wastage of water WSSB has accepted the
consultants' recommendations for metering future service connections and
selectively metering existing connections. The consultants' studies also
india::  --at many existing meters are unserviceable, and there is
considerable loss of water through ferrules and leaking house connections.
All these requirements of meters and connections are included in the project
and are summarized below:
Kathmandu   Pokhara
New meters and house connections                  7,000        400
Replacement meters                                5,000        600
Replacement house connections                     5,400         -
The estimate is based on the capacity of WSSB to make the necessary surveys
and carry out the program in the project period. The work on replacement
of house connections would be coordinated with construction of sewers in the
Kathmandu and Lalitpur core areas where several old service connections
would be exposed during trenching. WSSB would be responsible for all work
on house connections.
Workshop and Water Distribution Area Depots
26.       WSSB has a very small workshop in the yard of the Kathmandu office,
the Pani Goswara, and also has five area depots in the Valley. Following
the advice of the consultants, WSSB proposes to construct a larger central
workshop with a garage at Mahankalchaur and a sixth area depot to serve the
fast-growing Kalimati area. The existing small workshop would be converted
into a meter repair and testing workshop. These facilities are urgently
required, and are included in the project, together with additional tools
for the workshop, garage and area depots and a three-ton truck for the
workshop.
Hydrological Equipment
27.       On the consultants' recommendation, and in order to obtain reliable
hydrological data for future projects, three automatic water-level recorders,
ten automatic rain gauges, and a current meter have been included in the
project. The water level recorders would be installed at a river-gauging
station on the Bagmati river at Chobar, and at new gauging stations on the
Kodkhu Khola and Nakhu Khola. The rain gauges are to be installed in the
catchrments of these rivers. The Department of Metereology and Hydrology in
the Ministry of Water and Power would be responsible for installing the
equipment, collecting and processing the data and making it available to
WSSB in future planning.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
Vehicles aand Office Machines
28.       WSSB does not own any vehicles for the supervision of the water
project, or for its future operation. One Russian jeep owned by the Water
Department and now used by the Distribution Engineer mnty be transferrrred to
the new Board. Therefore, in addition to the vehicles listed in paras 24
and 26 two jeep-type vehicles are included in the project for project super-
vision and future operations in Kathmandu and Pokhara.
29.       As it is proposed to partially mechanize billing and collections,
the required office machines are also included in the project.
Training
30.       While institutional training on the professional level, in India
and abroad, is assisted by international organizations and HMG, the training
of non-professional staff for operating and maintaining water production
and distribution systems has received little attention. There are a few
illiterate mainlayers trained only in this type of work who are, with few
exceptions, operating the systems with little regard to good operations
or maintenance. The terms of reference for the two experienced Water Dis-
tribution Superintendents (para 24) requested from ODA includes. on-the-job
training of literate staff, to be recruited by WSSB, in water aistribution
operations and maintenance.
31.       Operators of the water treatment plants have little knowledge of
water treatment, and often unsafe water is sent into distribution. HMG
proposes requesting from ODA a Water Production Superintendent to assist
in improving water treatment methods and train plant operators.
32.       In addition, the project includes the training of 15 non-profes-
sional staff required in the five new divisions, for periods of 16 months
to two years at the Nepal Engineering Institute. The Institute would provide
courses to suit the special needs of WSSB.
33.       Training of middle-management and accounting staff would be
largely through working on the job with the experienced Manager Engineering
and Manager Finance and Administration provided by ODA. New graduate
engineers, surveyors and technical assistants would be attached to the
engineering consultants for training in design and the supervision of
construction. The two ODA managers would also advise and assist top manage-
ment in the satisfactory conduct of WSSB affairs for the successful completion
of the project and develop the organization into a viable entity capable of
taking added responsibilities in the near future.
Consulting Services
34.       The consulting services include preliminary engineering for parts
of the project not covered by the UNDP study, detailed design, preparation
of tender documents, evaluation of bids and supervision of construction of
the project. These also include the consulting services and associated fees
for the ongoing exploratory drilling and well-testing program.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
35.       An amount of US$800,000 has been included in the costs for
consulting services for a tariff study, feasibility studies and detailed
engineering for the next stage project, which is scheduled for execution
in about 1978-81. The tariff study is required to make a pricing policy
in order that decisions on future investments should be soundly based.
Feasibility studies are required for the next stage project arising from
needs identified in the almost completed sector study. Detailed engineer-
ing is required on the next stage project resulting from on-going feasibility
studies which were not completed in time for the present project.
March 4, 1974



ANNEX 2
Page 1
NEPAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Description of the Project - Sewerage
Introduction
1.        The sewerage component of the project consists of the execution
of part of the first phase of a master plan for Kathmandu Valley and Pokhara
prepared by Binnie & Partners, consultants under a WHO/UNDP study
with assistance by the Government of Nepal (HMG). It includes the construction
of a complete sewage collection system for areas of Kathmandu and Lalitpur
most acutely in need of sewerage, new trunk and outfall sewers to convey
the sewage from the collection system to a pumping station at Kirtipur,
and two treatment sites on the banks of the Bagmati--one at Dhobighat
receiving Kathmandu sewage from the pumping station, and another at Kodku--
receiving Lalitpur sewage. The sewage would be treated in waste stabiliza-
tion ponds, and the effluent piped into the Bagmati River. Several alter-
natives were studied and the project components selected by economic comparison
for achieving a least cost solution. Pokhara sewerage is not included in
this stage of the project.
Collection Network Extensions and Improvements
2.        No extensions or changes other than the provision of some manholes
and replacement of sections prone to blockage are planned for the existing
combined system which serves a part of the congested "core" area of Kathmandu
city.
3.        A new collection system covering some 100.8 hectares of the
remainder of the Kathmandu "core" area is included in the project. At
Lalitpur, however, a new collection system limited to serve only the most
congested insanitary "core" areas is included in this stage of the project.
The selected areas are those most popular with foreign and local tourists.
The projected 1985 population that would be served by water-borne sewerage,
based on the medium growth assumption is estimated to be about 82,000 in
Kathmandu, and probably 2,000 to 3,000 in Lalitpur. The population served
in Lalitpur would be more precisely known after detailed design.
4.        A comparison of the two possible alternatives indicated that a
combined system was less economically attractive, and the new collection
network is designed as a separate system. A minimum pipe diameter of 100 mm
would tlherefore be suitable for the lateral sewers and house connections
which would primarily deal with domestic sewage:



ANNEX 2
Page 2
-------------Lateral and Branch Sewers--                -
(meters)
Diameter  100 am   150 mm    200 mm   250 mm          Total
Kathmandu             11,700    3,900    8,100         400      23,700
Lalitpur               2,700    1,000    3,400          -        7,100
Total         14,400    4,900   11,500         400      30,800
5.        There are about 7,000 house sewer connections on the existing
system, of which 3,300 properties have piped water connections. About
3,800 future connections are provided in the new system. Most of these
connections would be made in the highly congested parts of Kathmandu and
Lalitpur. For every unsewered property a three-meter long, 100 mm dia.
lateral sewer is included to ensure that all of the householders would
take connections.
6.        Provision has been made in the water supply component of the
project to rehabilitate leaky water service pipes encountered during pipe-
laying. Other than careful scheduling for opening up streets in the congested
areas no special construction problems are foreseen.
7.        The lateral sewers are designed for a minimum depth of one meter
to the crown, and would provide good drainage for practically all property
in the project area. Design sewage flows have been derived from the medium
water consumption forecasts developed in the water supply component of the
project. A 10% consumptive use of domestic water consumption has been
allowed for garden watering and watering livestock. Because of the local
custom of using grit for pot scouring, the gradients of sewers are designed
for a self-cleansing velocity of 0.75 m/sec when the sewer is flowing half
full, slightly higher than the velocity of 0.6 m/sec in normal practice.
8.        With the exception of the Bir Hospital, there are no large non-
domestic sewage flows in this stage of the project. However, the trunk
and outfall sewers are designed for planned future extensions, and the
flows from the palace, hospitals and industries have been calculated from
available information.
Trunk Sewers
9.        From a study of the relative costs of various pipe materials
imported from India--the closest source--concrete pipes proved to be the most
economical for all sizes except for those of 150 mm and below, where stone-
ware pipes became more economical. The trunk sewer pipes, like the lateral
and branches, are assumed for the purposes of the project estimates to be
of sulphate resisting portland cement concrete, and imported from India:



ANNEX 2
Page 3
…-------------------…Trunk Sewers-
(meters)
Diameter 400 mm    500 mm    600 mm    700 mm    Total
Kathmandu                880       2,220       290     1,100       4,490
Lalitpur                 490         700       150        -        1,340
Total            1,370      2,920       440      1,100      5,830
10.       These trunk sewers are designed at a depth adequate for the
gravity collection of the smaller branch sewers, and would be laid as follows:
(a)  a main collecting sewer about 2,660 meters in length
along the eastern bank of the Bishnumati Khola down
to a point where it meets the 900 mm x 1,060 mm Bagmati
interceptor sewer at Kathmandu;
(b) a main collecting sewer about 1,510 meters in length in
Kantipath from Bir Hospital to the Bagmati interceptor at
Kathmandu;
(c) a relatively short main collecting sewer 320 meters long,
which includes a short 30-m length of 400-mm pipe to
intercept flows from the existing system at Kathmandu; and
(d) a 1,340-meter long main trunk sewer at Lalitpur.
11.       To prevent excessive siltation the design is so made that flows
will reach at least 0.60 m/sec in each day in the trunk sewers. A factor
for calculating peak flows was selected by the consultants from out of
several formulae based on tributary population. The selected factor
is based on a reasonable assumption that storm water would enter the system
through domestic drainage systems' manhole covers and illicit connections.
Infiltration has been assumed to be 10% of average domestic flow in areas
where the water table may rise above the sewers; elsewhere the corresponding
allowance is 5%.
12.       Two storm overflows are provided, one on the sewer described in
(c) above, and another on the existing system which includes a short 330-m
long 1,200-mm x 1,420-mm storm sewer from the overflow to an existing
drainage channel leading to Bishnumati Khola. The first overflow, at
the end of the Bir Hospital main collecting sewer, would be set to overflow
into the Bagmati river when the flow exceeds the carrying capacity of the
Bagmati interceptor sewer.
Bagmati Interceptor Sewer
13.       The 1,530-meter long Bagmati main interceptor sewer is of rectangular
section 900 mm x 1,060 mm and would be constructed in situ, out of reinforced
concrete, along the north bank of the Bagmati river from the Tukuchu Khola



ANNEX 2
Page 4
to the Bishnumati Khola. At the head of the sewer, flows from the Tukuchu
Khola would be diverted into the interceptor which would then in succession
intercept flows from the Bir Hospital and Bishnumati Khola trunk sewers.
14.       The Tukuchu Khola is a large open sewer, and is a major source
of river pollution meeting the Bagmati at a point where local tourists bathe
for religious reasons. The diversion works include the construction of
grit channels with control penstocks and a storm overflow weir to discharge,
intu thE 3agmati river, stormflows in excess of the carrying capacity of
the interceptor sewer.
15.       The trunk and interceptor sewers generally follow the river
banks and cross several private properties for which wayleaves would be
required. No special problems are anticipated if WSSB takes timely action
to commence legal proceedings. Because of the high water table special
provision has been included in the estimates for dealing with water.
16.       The depth of the interceptor is designed for the gravity col-
lection of the trunk sewers and because of the favorable topography is not
expected to be excessively deep. The sewers are designed to carry the
maximum flows when flowing full, and the Manning formula has been selected
for calculating the discharge.
17.       In the preliminary engineering study the interceptor is designed
at a grade of 1:1,000 to convey at the point where it connects to the
Bagmati outfall sewer a flow of about 1,340 1/sec. In the early years
this flow would be mainly contributed by the Tukuchu Khola. To maintain
the expected low flows, a vehicle with jetting equipment is included in the
project to remove deposits from the sewers.
Bagmati Outfall Sewer
18.       The 1,555-meter long main outfall sewer is similar to the inter-
ceptor sewer, but with a cross section of 1,000 mm x 1,180 mm and would cross
the Bishnumati Khola beneath the river bed to follow the western bank of
the Bagmati river to a sewage pumping station at Kirtipur. Several feasible
alternative routes and treatment plant sites were compared using varying
discount rates up to 15%.   The selected routes of the outfall sewer for
both Kathmandu and Lalitpur and the choice of the treatment site at Dhobighat
for Kathmandu, with pumping from Kirtipur and a separate treatment site
at Kodku for Lalitpur is the most economical solution.
19.       No special problems are anticipated in the river crossing or in
the construction of the outfall sewer except for dealing with water and
some difficult terrain over nart of the length. Wayleaves for the sewer
and acquisition of the site -or the Kirtipur pumping station should
present no problems if WSSB commences timely legal proceedings.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Kirtipur Sewage Pumping Station
20.       The Kirtipur pumping station would receive flows from the outfall
sewer and lift it to the Dhobighat treatment site on the east bank of the
Bagmati river. The pumping station is designed to deal with expected
1985 sewage flows, and is capable of expansion to meet future flows.
21.       The pumping station is of conventional design with wet and dry
wells and an overflow to meet excess storm flows from the Tukuchu Khola.
Because of anticipated difficulties with maintenance and spare parts
three similar electrically-driven pumpsets would be provided--two duty, and
one standby--each having a rated capacity of 830 1/sec. Until such time as
the flow builds up, only one pump may be in operation at a time with the
other two as standby. The pump capacities would be considered in detail
during final design. A store, workshop with tools and a change-room
are included in the project, to be constructed by the side of the pumping
station.
22.       A spun iron pumping main about 1,760 m long and 1,000 mm in diameter
would convey the sewage to the Dhobighat treatment plant site, which is at
about the same ground level as the pumping station. At the point where the
pumping main crosses the Bagmati it would be duplicated as a provision for
the future. No special problems are anticipated, and construction of the
river crossing is scheduled for the pre-monsoon season when flow in the
Bagmati is at the lowest in the year. The pipe sizes would be considered
in detail during final design.
Lalitpur Sewerage System
23.       The Lalitpur sewerage system is designed on the same criteria
as the Kathmandu system, but drains by gravity to waste stabilization
lagoons at Kodku on the southern bank of the Bagmati river to the northeast
of the town. Kodku is about four kilometers upstream of Dhobighat.
Dhobighat and Kodku Waste Stabilization Lagoons
24.       The two sewage treatment sites are some distance from habitation,
and conveniently located on the left bank of the Bagmati river into which
the treated effluent would flow by gravity.
25.       Several feasible conventional treatment methods and sites were
studied bv economic analysis, based on maintaining dissolved oxygen in the
Bagmati within acceptable limits. On a suggestion made during pre-
appraisal, treatment by mechanically aerated lagoons was included in the
study and is found to be the most economic alternative. In the early years,
however, because of the low flows, mechanical aeration would not be required
in the stabilization ponds.
26.       Initial treatment will be in duplicate primary anaerobic ponds
followed by one secondary facultative pond, which will be converted to a
mechanically aerated pond at a later date, and one final settling pond.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
At Dhobighat about 30 ha is available, and about half this area is required
for the first stage project to treat an average dry weather flow of 540 1/sec
expected in 1985. The Kodku stabilization pond system would be similar in
design to the Dhobighat ponds, but smaller, requiring 2.02 hectares to treat
60 1/sec in 1985.
27.       In the absence of data the design of the treatment plant is based
on criteria developed in India and elsewhere. For example, the strength of
daonestic Jewage expressed as biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) is assumed
to be 50 grams per person per day. This lies between 75 grams per person
per day for Western communities and 45 grams per person per day for India.
28.       The primary anaerobic ponds are designed for a minimum detention
period of 1-1/2 days with an operating depth of 2.0 to 2.5 m. A maximum
BOD loading of 200 kg/ha is proposed for the secondary facultative ponds
with an operating depth of 1.5 to 2.0 m, and a minimum detention period of
five days. During detailed design these criteria would be reviewed to
allow for future mechanical aeration of the facultative ponds, and for
calculation of the detention period of the final settling ponds. The areas
of the respective ponds based on the preliminary design are as follows:
Sewage treatment    Average dry weather  ------Areas of ponds (ha)----
works              flow 1/sec          Primary Secondary Final Total
Dhobighat                   540             3.46       7.01   2.31  12.78
Kodku                        60             0.39       1.37   0.45   2.02
29.       Land acquisition is not expected to be a problem if timely action
is taken by WSSB and HMG. The sites are now used for agriculture and there
are some houses on the proposed Dhobighat treatment site. Compensation
for crops and the houses, including the cost of the land, is included in
the cost estimates.
30.       Access and site roads, fencing and a small administration building
with change-rooms are also included in the project.
Ecological Aspects
31.       An important parameter in the economic analysis which led to the
selection of the treatment method was the desired degree of effluent
standards to preserve the ecology of the Bagmati river.
32.       The volume of flow in the Bagmati River below the point at which
the sewage effluent would be discharged to the south of Kathmandu is not
constant. The flow is increased by three major streams, the Kulikhani,
Kakhajor and Matin Rivers, together with numerous small streams until, by
the time the river reaches Mangaipur in the Terai, the flow has increased
ten fold.
33.       The Kulikhani River joins the Bagmati some 16-1/2 kilometers below
Dhobighat. Although it has a much simaller peak flow than the Bagmati it



ANNEX 2
Page 7
maintains the flow during the dry season due to the reservoir effect of
the limestone catchment, and its lowest flow is of the same order as in the
Bagmati. Furthermore the dissolved oxygen content of the Kulikhani is high.
It has therefore been assumed that the maximum dissolved oxygen deficit in
the Bagmati River will occur upstream of the confluence with the Kulikhani.
The volume of flow in the Bagmati River between Dhobighat and the Kulikhani
confluence is approximately constant since the area of land draining into
the river along this section is quite small. Between the Kulikhani con-
fluence and the Terai, the catchment is sparsely populated and no significant
additional pollution is likely to enter the river. By the time the river
reaches the Terai, the increasing dilution together with the self purifica-
tion of the rapidly flowing water will reduce the pollution effect of the
Kathmandu sewage effluent to a negligible consideration.
34.       Following the commissioning of the proposed sewerage scheme,
there would be an immediate reduction in pollution, resulting from the
treatment of sewage now discharged untreated into the river. In the
early years of sewage treatment operations, more accurate information
would be obtained of low flows in the river, from a gauging station to
be established under the project, about one kilometer downstream of the
treatment plant. WSSB staff would be trained in the estimation of BOD
in the sewage effluent and of dissolved oxygen in the river, to ensure
that river quality is maintained at a selected standard.
35.       At present there are no river quality standards in Nepal and
it may be several years before such standards are established. Until
such a time, WSSB would be responsible for ensuring that the quality of
the Bagmati river is not adversely affected by sewage effluent.
October 19, 1973






NEPAL
NEPAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Local Costs                                                  Foreign Costs
Year Ending July 15                             1974      1975      1976      1977     1978      Subtotal      1974      1975      1976      1977     1978      Subtotal       Total Costs
--------------_------_--_-----------------_-____ -_-_________-__  PlRs OOO's  _________________________________________-______-__
WATER SUPPLY
Development of Spring and Well Sources                 -        75      129       157         -         361        660    1,238        255    1,100          -       3,253          3,614
Pumping Stations                                       -         -      102       136         -        238            -        -    1,096        599         -       1,695          1,933
Transmission and Distribution Pipelines                -         -      939    3,100        506      4,545            -        -    5,221    4,055         370       9,646         14,191
Reservoirs                                             -        50      701       150        51        952            -       50       974       150        65       1,239          2,191
Improvements to Treatment Plants                       -         -       80        98         -        178            -        -        55       568         -         623            801
Water Meters and Fittings                              -        67      134       204         -         405           -      500    1,118    1,508           -       3,126          3,531
Vehicles and Equipment                                 -         -      148                   -        148            -        -    1,027          -         -       1,027          1,175
Staff Quarters                                         -      181        38         -         -        219            -       50        20      _            -          70            289
Total Water Supply                                 -       373    2,271    3,845        557       7,o46         660    1,838    9,766    7,980          435     20,679          27,725
SEWERAGE
Branch,Trunk and Lateral Sewers                        -      358    2,384    3,300        1,071     7,113            -       854   1,790    2,108         457       5,209         12,322
Sewer Outfall and Storm Overflows                      -      831       414        50          -     1,295            -       621      796       200         -       1,617          2,912
Pumping Station and Workshops                          -      829       256        28          3     1,116            -     1,176   1,222        449        41       2,888          4,004
Treatment Plant and Effluent Outfall                   -         -    2,217    1,070         767     4,054            -          -     702       366       480       1,548          5,602
Vehicles and Equipment                                 -         -        -         -          -          -           -         -      160        50         -         210            210
Total Sewerage                                      -    2,018    5,271    4,448       1,841    13,578                   2,651   4,670    3,173         978     11,472          25,050
LAND                                                      -       300    4,317          -         -      4,617                      -                  -        -                       4,617
TRAINING                                                  -        14        14       14          -         42           -          -        -         -        -            -             42
Subtotal                                            -    2,705   11,873    8,307       2,398    25,283          660      4,489  14,436   11,153    1,413        32,151          57,434
CONSULTING SERVICES                                       -       208      278       728        510      1,724       1,987      1,351   3,071    6,175    4,104        16,688          18,412
CONTINGENCIES
Physical                                               -       479    1,508    1,659         479     4,125          132        897   2,888    2,231        282       6,430          10,555
Price                                                  -       825    2,937    4,794       1,723    10,279          157     1,33Y   5,147    5.224         976      12,043          23,122
Total Contingencies                                 _ -  1,304    4,445    6,453        2,202    14,404          289     2,236   8,035    7,455    1,258         19,273          33,677
TOTAL                                               -    4,217   16,596   15,488       5,110   Ml,41l         2,936      8,076  25,542   24,783    6,775         68,112         12&52
February 5, 1974






ANNEX 4
NEPAL
NEPAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA                      Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal Year                 at end of Quarter
and Quarter                       US$ 000                           Percentage
1975
First                               250                                3.2
Second                              450                                5.8
Third                               650                                8.3
Fourth                              850                               10.9
1976
First                             1,150                               14.7
Second                            1,850                               23.7
Third                             2,550                               32.7
Fourth                            3,250                               41.7
1977
?irst                             3,950                               50.6
Second                            4,700                               60 3
Third                             5,450                               69.9
Fourth                            6,200                               79.5
1978
First                             6,950                               89.1
Second                            7,400                               94 9
Third                             7,600                               97.4
Fourth                            7,800                              100.0
March 11, 1974






NEPAL
NEPAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1974                       1975                        1976                        1977
PROJECT COMPONENTS                J| F|M|A|M| J |J|A|S SO|NI[ JI|FIMA M J J JA|S|OINID J| F|M|A|M| J|J A|S 91°NID J | FM| A|M|J |J |A|S 1°|N|
SPANDS ACQUISITIO
SUPPLY AOPUMPS                                                            CNTRT
CIVIL WORK  DETW ONK-INTERNATIONAL CIVILCONTRACTS
PUMMP   TAT O IIAT            OR MANUFCTUR
SUPL PUMPS AND EQUIPMENT                                                    R.   0            t        
CVLWORKSHPANOFIE                                         r              ,      L               
RESEWERVFLUSHIN  TR UC T O DI                                                                  r    IN    AIOA I  U I R.I  CONTRACTS
T REATMENTPLRTIMPT AND COEMM
CIVIL WOR    SIG                                                                            (0 -1 INENAINA IILCNTAT
WAT|ERPIP&s"sE NETWO          ONRCTSGNTRK                                                      @  NTINLCVLOTRTSRFREACUT
4             INTER-RELATED ACTIVITIES                              .ROUPED CONTRACTS
-World Ronk-7R351R1






ANNEX 6
Page 1
NEPAL
NEPAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Existing Facilities - Water Supply
Water Sources
1.        Water supply in the towns and villages of Kathmandu Valley is from
perennial springs, run-of-the river abstraction, and wells. Pokhara water
sutpply is based on a spring and on a stream. The Valley is a roughly
circular basin of a total catchment of 607 sq km. Kathmandu and Lalitpur
towns lie west of center, by the Bagmati, the main river of the Valley. Bode-
Thimi and Bhaktapur are about six and nine kilometers east of Kathmandu.
Pokhara is outside the Valley, about 200 km west of Kathmandu.
2.        Kathmandu is 1,280 m above sea level, and the surrounding hills
rise to about 2,000 meters with a maximum height of 2,760 m. Snow storage
does not occur in significant quantities, and the June/September monsoon
provides most of the 1,740 mm mean annual rainfall. Due to the monsoon
regime there is a long recession in spring flows leading to a minimum flow
in April and May of the following year. Groundwater development in the
Valley for public purposes has so far been unsuccessful, but on the basis
of recent hydrogeological studies this source is being explored further.
Pokhara has potentially good sources of supply in the snow-fed Sethi and
Mardi Kholas, the Kali Khola and Phewa Tal Lake. Groundwater may be
available, but requires investigation.
3.        Kathmandu, Lalitpur, Bhaktapur and Bode-Thimi in Kathmandu Valley
are supplied with water from eight schemes with fifteen sources. Pokhara is
supplied from two sources. Details are as follows:
(a) run-of-the-river abstraction from two spring-fed streams
supplies the Bir Dhara scheme serving north Kathmandu;
(b) run-of-the-river abstraction from five spring-fed streams
supplies the Tri Bhim Dhara scheme serving northwest Kathmandu;
(c) a spring supplies the Lokhot scheme serving Kirtipur and the
Rabi Bhawan area of southern Kathmandu;
(d) three spring-fed streams discharging through the tailrace of
a hydroelectric power station supplies the Sundarijal scheme
serving northeast Kathmandu;
te) a spring supplies the Doodpokhari scheme serving Lalitpur;
(f) run-of-the-river abstraction from the Bagmati river supplies
the Sundarighat scheme serving Lalitpur;



ANNEX 6.
Page 2
(g)  a single spring-fed stream, the Mahadev Khola supplies Bhtktapur;
(h)  a single well supplied Bode-Thimi and Nagadesh until the
well screen failed in mid-1973; and
(i)  a spring at Bal Dhara and the spring-fed Bhote Khola supply
Pokhara.
4.        From hydrological studies made for over a year and analysis of scanty
records, the consultants have estimated the yield from the existing water
sources. The estimated water production from each of the sources, based on
treatment plant or pipeline capacity when the.daily flow is either the
minimum average for the year or that exceeded for 85Z of the time is also shown
bracketed in the following table.
Daily minimum flow in       Daily flow exceeds
Average    One Year    50% of   75% of   85% of
Year      in Ten       Time     Time      Time
Kathmandu Valley
A. Springs & Streans
RI r Tlhprr  Schem             (23)                                     (23)
Intake No. 1              10            7       53        24      16
Intake No. 2              23           15      120        53      37
Tri Bhim Dhara Scheme       35( 32)      23       1-81      80       56( 52)
Lokhot             '        6(  6)       5          9        7        6(  6)
Sundarijal                  208(203)    162       949       410      336(205)
Doodpokhari        "        23( 21)      21        44       29       25( 23)
Mahadev Khola               Z9( 29)      19       100       69       46( 46)
B.  Bagmati River /a
Sundarighat                   ( 9)        -                          9(  9)
C. Wells
Bode /b                     12( 12)       -         -        _       12( 12)
Total for Kathmandu               346(335)                                543(376)
Pokhara
D. Springs & Streams
Bal Dhara          "         1(  1)   Estimated - No records         -   -
Bhote Khola        "        29( 16)         of
Total for Pokhara                  30( 17)
/a   No reliable flow records.
/b   Well failed in mid-1973.



ANNEX 6
Page $
Water Production
5.        Except for the two schemes at Sundarighat and Bode which are based
upon river and well sources and which require pumping, all other schemes
are based upon spring sources and provide gravity supplies.
Bir Dhara scheme
6.        Intake No. 1 on the spring-fed Mahadev Khola consists of a small
masonry dam and intake chamber. A cast iron pipeline 8.4 km long and
125 and 200 mm diameter laid in 1895 conveys raw water from this intake to
the Maharajgunj treatment plant and reservoir serving north Kathmandu. Both
the intake chamber and pipeline, which has five break-pressure tanks, are
leaking badly. Intake No. 2 on the spring-fed Bishnumati Khola is similar
to intake No. 1. The raw water is conveyed by a 1.4 km spun iron pipeline
of 150 mm diameter laid in a second stage built in 1960, and connected to
break pressure tank No. 4.
7.        It is estimated that 4.4 1/sec of untreated water is supplied to
villages on the pipeline route and the minimum quantity of raw water
delivered at the treatment plant in an average year is about 23.1 1/sec.
If the leakages are repaired, with some modifications to the inlet at the
plant this could be increased to 30.1 1/sec. The necessary interruption to
the water supply for making the repairs could be tolerated only after the
commissioning of a well to be constructed near the pipeline at Bansbari
under the proposed project.
8.        Maharajgunj water treatment plant, built in 1961, is of conventional
design with lime and alum dosing, flocculation, sedimentation filtration and
chlorination. The design has several unsatisfactory features, and the plant
is poorly operated and maintained. Recent records show an average output of
20.8 1/sec though the rated output of the plant is 31.4 1/sec. The consul-
tants have listed extensive remedial work to increase plant efficiency, but
are of the opinion that the plant should be replaced with a new plant sited
at bansbari.
9.        The raw water from both Kholas 1/ is typical of most of the surface
waters in the Valley; badly polluted and soft with low concentrations of
dissolved salts and increased turbidity and color during the monsoon.
Geological studies indicate that the water from the proposed Bansbari well
may be hard, with appreciable concentrations of manganese and iron. The
treatment of the mixed waters requires more study, and because WSSB has
decided to postpone for the next stage project any decision on the future
of the Maharajgunj plant, no improvements or repairs are included in the
project.
10.       Situated near the plant is the service reservoir with an effective
capacity of 4,890 cubic meters and top water level (TWL) 1,328.5 m. The
1/   Streams.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
single-compartment, 80-year-old reservoir has a leakage of about 3 1/sec.
As it is in continuous service and interruptions to supply cannot be
tolerated at this time, WSSB has scheduled repairing the leakage for after
the completion of the proposed project.
Tri Bhim Dhara Scheme
11.       With the difference that it has three more spring sources and was
first built in 1930, this scheme is similar in concept and in the same poor
condition as the Bir Dhara scheme. Raw water from three intakes at ANye,
Boude and Bhardare, on spring-fed tributaries of the Bishnumati Khola, is
conveyed to the Balaju water treatment plant by a poorly laid and badly
maintained, unprotected steel and cast iron pipeline system totalling 11.5
km of diameters varying from 100 to 300 mm. Two other pipelines, each 6.7
km and 7.4 km, also convey raw water to Balaju from intakes on spring-fed
tributaries of the Kolpu Khola at Chahare and Panchmane. The Chahare pipeline
is of cast iron throughout, 125 and 150 mm in diameter. Though it is also
poorly laid and in need of maintenance it is, by comparison, in a reasonable
condition. The Panchmane pipeline, partly of 125 and 150 mm diameter cast
iron, and partly of 150 mm diameter asbestos is also in a poor condition.
12.       The total carrying capacity of the three pipeline systems estimated
at 99 I/sec, is greatly in excess of the minimum flow in an average year from
the five sources or even of the flow exceeded for 85% of the time, estimated
at 35 and 52 1/sec respectively. Because of the poor condition of the pipelines
only some 32 l/sec is delivered at the treatment plant and another 0.6
1/sec of untreated water is supplied to villages on the pipelines.
13.       Balaju water treatment plant, completed in 1960, was designed to
treat water from the five sources and rated at 126 1/sec, has some design
deficiencies. It is poorly maintained, and as at Maharajgunj the plant is
operated by untrained staff. Raw water quality is almost similar to that
of the Bir Dhara scheme and the treatment process includes dosing with
alum and lime, flocculation, sedimentation, rapid gravity filtration, and
chlorination. The consultants' proposals for correcting the design deficiencies
and training of plant operators have been accepted by WSSB for inclusion in
the proposed project.
14.       Balaju service reservoir supplying northwest Kathmandu has a
capacity of 3,690 cubic meters and TWL 1,352.4 m, higher than the Maharaj-
gunj service reservoir by 23.9 m. Leakage from the reservoir is negligible,
but appreciable quantities are lost from adjoining supply pipework.
Lokhot Scheme
15.       Limestone springs at Lokhot to the southwest of Kathmandu supply
the village of Kirtipur, Rabi Bhawan an elevated area in Kathmandu, and
a number of communities living on the transmission pipeline. From a small
collecting chamber a 4.1 km galvanized iron 100 mm diameter pipe line supplies
Kirtipur and continues as a 75 mm diameter pipeline for another 3.4 km to



ANNEX 6
Page 5
supply Rabi Bhawan. Some parts of the pipeline are damaged and other parts
are often broken by local farmers. The water is of good quality, non-corrosive
and only requires disinfection. The 100-mm pipeline has a capacity of 8 1/sec,
and the 75-mm pipeline a capacity of 6 1/sec, equal to the annual average
minimum flow from the springs. There is no service reservoir or chlorination.
16.       WSSB has accepted the consultants' recommendations to make
improvements to the source, provide for chlorination and when Kathmandu
water supply is improved reserve the Lokhot scheme for Kirtipur.
Sundarijal Scheme
17.       The headwaters of the Bagmati river and two tributaries are
stored in a pond, and released to generate hydroelectric power at Sundarijal
hydroelectric power plant on the northeast rim of the Valley. Water from
the tailrace is led to a balancing reservoir for treatment in the adjacent
Sundarijal water treatment plant. The quality of the raw water is almost
similar to that of the Bir Dhara sources.
18.       Sundarijal water treatment plant, completed in 1966, is rated to
treat about 227 1/sec. At the present time output is about 203 1/sec in dry
weather and 205 1/sec for 85% of the time. The plant is conservatively
designed with preliminary sedimentation, aeration, dosing with alum and lime,
vertical flow sedimentation, rapid-gravity filtration and chlorination.
Though the plant is in good condition, there are initial signs of some
neglect and poor operation.
19.       'ome minor improvements and a major modification have been recom-
mended by the consultants to increase the capacity of the plant to 248 1/sec,
equivalent to the carrying capacity of the transmission pipeline. WSSB has
accepted for inclusion in the proposed project some of the minor improvements
which should increase output slightly, and also improve the quality of the
treated water. The recommended major modification is for the construction
of an additional filter, but WSSB proposes studying other alternatives such
as multi-media filtration before making a decision on the recommendation.
20.       An 8.5 km cast iron transmission pipeline, 500 mm diameter, conveys
treated water from the Sundarijal plant to Mahankalchaur reservoir serving
northeast Kathmandu. Several villages lying on the route of the transmission
pipeline take some 1.3 1/sec. The pipeline is generally in good condition
and with proposed improvements, which includes stabilization of the treated
water, should remain free from corrosion.
21.       Mahankalchaur service reservoir with TWL 1,338.1 m is seriously
leaking through cracks in the masonry walls and mass concrete floor. The
leakage from the 4,640 cubic meter reservoir, estimated at about 16 1/sec,
is undermining the foundations and may cause a complete structural failure.
Additional storage is included in the proposed project, and only when this
is provided can the leaking reservoir be taken out of service for repair.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Doodpokhari Scheme
22.       The four schemes described above serve the northern urban and
suburban areas referred to as the Kathmandu Town and Village Panchayats,
lying on the north bank of the Bagmati river. The Doodpokhari scheme and
the Sundarighat scheme described next are interconnected and serve Lalitpur
Town which lies on the south bank of the Bagmati, opposite Kathmandu.
23.       Dcodpokhari springs were first developed for domestic water
supply in 1896. The springs issue from limestone outcrops in the hills
6 km south-west of Lalitpur.  Subsurface pipes collect the water in a rell
which is connected by a 2.8 km cast iron pipeline 175 mm in diameter to a
reservoir at Bhajangal. The reservoir provides 810 cubic meters of balancing
storage at TWL 1,358 m, and is a convenient point for disinfection with
chloride of lime.
24.       Though the raw water is slightly hard, with low turbidity it is
aot aggressive with a pHs of about 8.1. Only traces of iron and small
concentrations of manganese have been noted, but there is faecal pollution.
The source requires protection, and chlorination has to be made more
efficient. No other treatment is required.
25.       Bhajangal reservoir is in good condition with negligible leakage.
A 2.8 km trunk distribution pipeline 225 mm in diameter conveys water from
the reservoir to Lalitpur. It is estimated that about 10 l/sec is supplied
to villages on the 175 mm diameter pipeline and about 23 1/sec is supplied
to Lalitpur for 85% of the time. Some improvements are recommended by the
consultants for this scheme and are included in the proposed project. As
the pipeline is frequently damaged by farmers diverting water for irrigation,
regular inspection patrols are also recommended, especially in the dry
season when the supply to Lalitpur decreases to about 1,800 cubic meters per
day.
Sundarighat Scheme
26.       This is the only run-of-the-river pumped scheme in the Valley,
and is also the newest having been commissioned in April 1971. The intake
works consist of two 30-m long slotted drill pipes 100 nmm and 150 mm in
diameter, laid 2 m below the Bagmati riverbed, and connected to a 4-m
diameter welded steel sump near the western river bank. A pumping station
situated on the river bank, equipped for pumping both raw and treated water,
lifts water to an adjacent treatment plant. About 2.4 km upstream of the
intake is the confluence of the Bagmati River with the Bishnumati Khola, in
downtowrt Kathmandu, and 1.6 km downstream of the intake the Bagmati River
flows through the deep Chobar Gorge.
27.       All surface and subsurface water from a greater part of the
Valley rust ?ass through Cnobar Gorge, and as may be expected, the river
is highly oolluted at Sundar_-lat especially by raw sewage discharged into
the Bishnumati Khola and the Bagmati river at Kathmandu. The water is,
heoever, not difficult to treat to acceptable standards. The published



ANNEX 6
Page 7
records indicate that the lowest flow at Chobar Gorge in 11 years was 20 -/sec.
There is some doubt about this measurement, as the flow may be greater, and
on the consultants' recommendation hydrological equipment for installation at
Chobar is included in the project.
28.       Sundarighat treatment plant was designed to treat 32 1/sec, but on
the advice of the consultants, would be down rated to about 12 1/sec. The
treatment process provides for prechlorination, dosing with alum and lime,
flocculation, horizontal flow sedimentation and slow sand filtration. The
dowfnrating of the plant would reduce filtration rates from 0.40 cubic meters
per hour per square meter 1/ to 0.15 cubic meters per hour per square meter 2/,
more suitable for slow sand filtration.  The consultants have also
recommended discontinuing prechlorination and alum dosing in favor of the
normal method of forming a biological membrane on the filters.
29.       Treated water is stored in a 210-cubic meter tank, and pumped
into the 225-mm diameter trunk distribution pipeline from Bhajangal reservoir
to Lalitpur (para 25) which crosses the Bagmati river over a saspension
bridge near the intake.  A new high lift pump station and independent pumping
main serving Lalitpur which is about 4.5 km to the east of the intake is under
construction.
30.       Other recommendations by the consultants upon which WSSB has
commenced action include flood protection works and correctly designed low
lift pumps. A few modifications to improve the treatment efficiency are
included in the project. WSSB also proposes to further study and improve
plant operations during the proposed project. A technical adviser from
WHO would review the recommendations of the consultants regarding treatment.
Mahadev Khola Scheme
31.       All the above schemes serve the Kathmandu and Lalitpur areas which
are on opposite banks of the Bagmati river. The Mahadev Khola scheme
serves Bhaktapur about nine kilometers to the east of Kathmandu.
32.       The flow in the Mahadev Khola 3/ is derived from perennial springs
and serves local irrigation needs as well as Bhaktapur water supply. An
intake weir built in 1896 at Nagarkot which is northeast of Bhaktapur diverts
water into an inlet chamber. In 1971 the original 100 mum-diameter raw
water pipeline that connected the inlet chamber to a service reservoir at
Bansbari 3/ was replaced by a 200 mm diameter spun iron pipeline. At the same
1/   0.16 U.S. gallons per minute per square foot.
2/   0.06 U.S. gallons per minute per square foot.
3/   Not to be confused with the Bir Dhara scheme where similar place
names are used.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
time the original 125 mm diameter trunk distribution pipeline from Bansbari
to Bhaktapur was replaced by a 300 mm cast iron pipeline. The distance from
the inlet chamber to Bansbari is 3.1 km and from Bansbari to Bhaktapur is
another 2.3 km.
33.       In addition to excess water from Nagarkot weir, local farmers
draw water through a channel about one kilometer upstream. Flow records
are available only for 1971 and are of doubtful accuracy. From these records
and by cc.rfparison with similar streams and the general hydrology of the valley
the consultants have estimated average annual minimum flow, and flcws
occuring over 85% of the time. These are 29 and 46 1/sec respectively, well
within the capacity of the new raw water pipeline estimated at 57 1/sec.
34.       The rawg water is moderately soft and aggressive with low turbidity
except in the monsoon. The only treatment provided is disinfection with
chloride of lime which will be shortly replaced with gas chlorination. WSSB
has plans for the future construction of a treatment plant for conjunctive use
with ground water. Only minor improvements are included in the present
project proposals.
Bode-Thimi Scheme
35.       Until mid-1973, when the well screen failed, the Bode-Thini area,
including Nagadesh village was supplied from a well about 149 m deep, sited
near Bode. A new well is included in the proposed project for immediate
construction in the same area. After testing, and if water quality is satis-
factory the new well would be connected to the existing 500 cubic meter
reservoir at Tigni. It is expected that the yield of the proposed well
would not be less than 12 1/sec similar to the well that failed. The water
in this well which was supplied without treatment was high in iron and
manaanese and also slightly aggressive. WSSB has no plans to provide any
treatment for the future well other than disinfection with chloride of lime.
Full treatment is, however, planned for the next stage project when Bode-Thimi
would be included in the area of supply for Bhaktapur.
36.       Tigni reservoir, sited near Bode, has several cracks which would
be repaired before it is put back in service. A 150 mm diameter asbestos
cement distribution main reducing to 100 mm diameter cast iron, about 2.1 km
long, runs from Bode to Thimi to provide standpipe supplies only.
Pokhara Water Schemes
37.       Pokhara derives its water supply from two limestone springs at
Bal Dhara to the west and the spring-fed Bhote Khola to the northwest.
There are no records of flow other than stream gaugings made in 1957 on
the Bhote Khola. The consultants estimate that the average annual minimum
flow of both sources is about 30 1/sec.
3g,.      Bal Dhara scheme was conscructed in about 1920 and the spring
water is collected in two wells and flows through separate cast iron
pipelines of 50 mm and 75 mm diameter providing local supplies in areas



ANNEX 6
Page 9
to the north and the south of the town. The pipelines have a combined capa-
city of about 3 1/sec, but the minimun yield of the springs is a little
over 1 1/sec. There is no storage or treatment. The water has low turbidity,
is moderately hard, and is polluted. WSSB proposes to improve protection
of the source and make some minor repairs at the intake.
39.       The Bhote Khola scheme constructed in 1965 consists of a weir
and intake on the Bhote Khola, and a 200-mm diameter asbestos cement
pipeline conveys water to a break pressure tank at Amala Bisauni, a
distance of 3.0 km. The pipeline is estimated to have a carrying capacity
of 68 1/sec, but from stream gaugings made in 1957 it is estimated that
the average annual minimum flow in the Bhote Khola is only 29 1/sec.
40.       A 150-mm diameter asbestos cement pipeline 3.6 km in length, with
a capacity of 68 1/sec connects the break pressure tank to the 450-cubic
meter Bindhabasani service reservoir situated in downtown Pokhara. The
pipeline is leaking badly, and after allowing for enroute supplies the water
delivered to the service reservoir is estimated to be only 16 1/sec.
41.       WSSB is presently constructing a 450-cubic meter capacity storage
reservoir near the break pressure tank, and plans to repair the pipeline
after the new reservoir is commissioned.
42.       Bindhabasani service reservoir has appreciable leakage from
cracks in the walls. Repairs would be undertaken when the proposed project
nears completion. The water is soft and tends to be aggressive, and is
suitable, after treatment and disinfection, for domestic water supply.
Provision is made in the proposed project for disinfection, and WSSB plans
to provide suitable treatment in the next stage project. It is estimated
that after allowing for the leakage only 11 1/sec of untreated water is
supplied from this reservoir to Pokhara town.
Distribution Network
43.       Kathmandu distribution network was first laid in 1896 and
extended in 1920, 1930 and 1966. The Lalitpur and Bhaktapur networks were
first laid in 1896, and except for minor additions remained unchanged until
1972 when some of the trunk mains were reinforced at Lalitpur and replaced
in Bhaktapur. The Pokhara network was probably first laid in the 1920's
and extended in 1965. The pipes are predominantly of cast iron with some
steel and asbestos, with the larger diameters ranging from 600 mm to 100 mm:



ANNEX 6
Page 10
-----kilometers---
Range of pipe diameters (nun)  100-225  250-300   375-600   Total
Kathmandu                         38        11         10         59
Lalitpur                          30         -          -         30
Bhaktapur                          5         2          -          7
Pokhara                            9         -          -          9
Total                  82        13         10        105
44.       None of the networks is adequately maintained, and under the
present intermittent operating conditions it is inevitable that contaminated
water is drawn into the mains through defective joints. At Pokhara some of the
asbestos cement pipes do not have adequate cover and break frequently.
However, both internal and external corrosion is minimal, and is limited to
some recently laid cast iron pipes.
Unaccounted-for Water
45.       As there are few working meters to measure water production, and
only 13% of the house connections are metered, unaccounted-for water cannot
be accurately estimated. Under the existing daily six-hour supply period
unaccounted-for water is estimated to be about 50% of water sent into distri-
bution and lost through leakage and wastage. Wastage is mainly from running
taps left open through the two three-hour daily supply periods, especially
from unmetered damestic connections and standpipes. In mid-1973 there were
over 13,413 such connections, not including several village schemes in the
project area.
Metered Connections      Unmetered Connections   Total
Domestic  Non-donestic  Domestic        Standpipes
Kathmandu    2,008         1,033        9,572           296      12,909
Lalitpur        -            -          1,300           166       1,466
Bhaktapur       -            -          1,000           225      1,225
Pokhara         -            -            714           140         854
Total   2,008        1,033       12,586           827      16,454
46.       Leakage is caused by poor workmanship during pipelaying, and studies
by the consultants indicate that most of the leakage is through badly
installed ferrules, and substandard pipes and fittings in making house
connections.
47.       Other causes of unaccounted-for water include under-registration
of meters because of the intermittent supply and defective meters. There
are no facilities for the testing and repair of meters, and WSSB is not
org.anized to ensure a continuous supply of meter spare parts.



ANNEX 6
Page 11
Village Water Supplies
48.       These are simple supplies usually with gravity intakes or with
connections to existing water supplies by a small transmission pipeline
between 50 mn to 100 mm diameter serving a few standpipes. The standpipes
are not installed firmly and are sometimes fitted with waste-not valves,
but do not have concrete platforms to enable consumers to collect the water
in a container without waste. There is usually no drainage for the used
water, which often stagnates around the standpipes. Every village has a
few private connections.
March 4, 1974






ANNEX 7
Page 1
NEPAL
NEPAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
Existing Situation - Sewerage
Sanitation
1.        Very few people in the project area have any form of sanitary
facilities. As in other predominantly rural cultures most of the people use
the fields, river banks or waste ground. Until recently some householders
in the built-up areas of the larger towns had latrines with buckets emptied
by sweepers. With increased education the traditional labour has largely
turned to less offensive employment, and these latrines are now either emptied
at longer intervals, abandoned, or in most cases converted to hand- or
cistern-flushed latrines connected to open drains, septic tanks and cesspits.
2.        In the closely built-up old city of Kathmandu several properties
were connected to an existing covered surface water sewerage system (para 4),
but outside this area raw sewage, odorous septic tank effluent and sometimes
sludge ncw flows into and clogs open roadside drains.
3.        There are no records of the sanitary facilities, and the following
data on the Valley towns is based on recent sample surveys. At Pokhara it
is estimated that only 8% of the population have sanitary facilities.
Kathmandu Valley Towns
Existing Sanitary Facilities
Number of properties served by:-
Total        Hand    Cistern   Connections
number of   flushing  flushing  to existing    Septic
Sewerage Zone  properties  latrines  latrines  sewage system  Tanks  Cess Pits
/1
Kathmandu         19,100      13,220      1,250       7,000-        880      890
Tahachal           1,530         750        160                     160       110
Kirtipur           1,050         100                                           20
Lalitpur           6,780       1,040        160                     120       270
Thimi              1,090          50                                           10
Bhaktapur          4,520         450                                           60
Total             34,070      15,610      1,570       7,000       1,160    1,360
/1   Of these 3300 have water service connections.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Seer Sm
4.        The original Kathmandu sewers constructed between 1896 and 1905
consist of a small system of brick culverts varying in size from 600 mm
diameter circular to 1,500 x 1,050 mm ovoid sections. The lateral sewers
are generally constructed as rectangular brick culverts with concrete or
stone cover slabs. These originally served as surface drains only, but since
1950 most of the houses adjacent to the sewers have made connections to latrines
ind septic tanks discharging raw and septic sewage.
5.        The lateral sewers, because of the rectangular construction,
suffer frequent blockages, and as they were inadequately provided with manholes
cannot be effectively cleaned. WSSB proposes to replace with circular
concrete sewers those sections which are subject to frequent blockage, and
provide additional manholes. A small quantity of materials for these
remedial works is included in the project.
6.        The trunk sewers were well constructed, and although they have
not been maintained within living memory are in generally good condition
and operate satisfactorily. A section is badly silted, but this can be
rectified with jetting equipment included in the project.
7.        The main sewers discharge into open irrigation channels where
the polluted water is used primarily to irrigate market garden vegetasle
plots. The excess sewage flows without treatment into the Bagmati rirer and
the Bishnumati Khola.
Morbidity Statistics
8.        Morbidity and mortality statistics obtained from the records of
Bir Hospital in Kathmandu do not indicate the total incidence of disease
caused by faecal pollution.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
BIR HOSPITAL KATHMANDU
Faecal and water borne diseases
Morbidity and Mortality April 1971 to April 1972
Classification                Admissions          Deaths
Cholera                              3                 0
Typhoid Fever                      116                 8
Bacillary Dysentry                  75                 3
Amoebic Dysentry                    51                 1
Dysentery (unspecified)            118                 6
Diarrhoea and Infantile
Diarrhoea                       346                 12
Gastro-enteritis and colitis   1,250                  14
Infectious Hepatitis                40                 1
Total                            1,999                45
Minor attacks of illness are not recorded, and the incidence of diarrhoea,
hookworm and roundworm is so common as to go unremarked. There is no estimate
of the loss to the economy caused by the morbidity from these debilitating
diseases. According to one estimate about 50% of all patients admitted to
Bhaktapur hospital suffer from hookworm, and nearly 100% suffer from roundworm.
9.        The consultant also reports that almost all foreign visitors contract
one of the minor enteric diseases. Though only three cases were reported in
1972 there appear to have been limited outbreaks of cholera in the previous
two years:
BIR HOSPITAL KATHMANDU
Admissions for Gastro-enteritis and Cholera
//1/1                                    /2
1969/1970-  1970/1971/   1971/1972-  1972/1973-
Gastro-enteritis        1,301        1,105        1,250          1,669
Cholera                   811          417             3             0
/1   Records for twelve months April to April
/2   Records for three months only mid-April to mid-July
October 10, 1973






ANNEX 8
Page 1
NEPAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Population Projections and Water Demand
Population Growth
1.        Population censuses, with demographic data collected on a scien-
tific basis, were carried out for Nepal in 1952/54, 1961/63 and 1971. In
these two decades the annual rate of growth for the country was 1.31% and
2.05% respectively. This rate is comparable with 2.2% for Asia in 1960-69.
2.        In Kathmandu Valley, however, probably because of better medical
facilities, the growth rate in the past decade was 2.41%. The consultants
have also calculated growth rates for the three town Panchayats 1/ in the
Valley:
1961/63 Census  1971 Census-  Annual Growth
Area in Valley            Population      Population         Rate
Kathmandu Town Panchayat           126,081          150,342         2.22%
Kathmandu Village Panchayats          -              40,601           -
Lalitpur Town Panchayat             48,795           59,049          2.26%
Bhaktapur Town Panchayat            33,877          40,112           1.70%
Bode-Thimi Village Panchayats         -              10,000           -
55 Village Populations               -              63,000
Rural Population                      -220,448
Total Kathmandu Valley            459,900G/         583,552         2.41%
/a   Estimated from preliminary census figures given by the Central Bureau
of Statistics to the consultants for the purposes of the project.
/b   Includes village and rural population.
3.        In the Pokhara Town Panchayat, apart from the 1971 official cen-
sus, only local censuses were taken in 1964 and 1970. Because of migration,
which in recent years has increased significantly, the annual growth rate
of Pokhara was more than double that of Kaski district in which it is
situated:
1/   Panchayats are political boundaries.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Census                   Census                    Annual
Area          Year      Population      Year     Population      Growth
Kaski District      1961      128,000        1971       145,100         1.25Z
Pokhara             1964       16,891        1970        19,594         2.5%
it               1964       16,891        1971        20,611        2.9Z
of              1970        19,594        1971        20,611        5.2%
4.        Preliminary findings from a limited survey made by the Centre of
Economic Development and Administration confirms the increased trend in
migration to Pokhara. However, no data are available on population movements
into or out of Kathmandu Valley. In other countries immigration to the
vicinity of the capital city is commonly at a high level but the consultants
found no evidence to suggest that this is the case for Kathmandu. Movements
within the Valley were inferred from rates of population growth in the area,
and the data available indicated a stable population with a relatively
modest rate of immigration from outside the Valley.
Population Projections
5.        The consultants have developed constant rate low, medium and high
population projections for Kathmandu Valley and Pokhara based upon the pre-
liminary results of the 1971 census. For Kathmandu Valley the medium or
design projection assumes the same rate of growth as recorded between 1961
and 1971 and the assumption is justified on the grounds that available data
is not sufficient to meaningfully quantify any change. The rates of growth
for the high and low projections for the Town Panchayats have been varied
from the medium projection assumption by ± 0.4Z to allow for an unknown
amnount of immigration to the Valley or for the recently introduced family
planning program. The population in the year 2000, on the medium projection,
would be almost double that in 1971:



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Panchayat and Village Populations
(Thousands)
Medium Projection                  Assumed Growth
Area        Year  1971   1976   1981   1990   2000             Rate
Kathmandu Town           150    168    187    220       266           2.2%
Kathmandu Village         41     47      54     76      107           2.8%
Lalitpur Town             59      66     72     89      111           2.2%
Bhaktapur Town            40     43      47     55       65           1.7%
Bode/Thimi                10      11     13     16       20           2.4%
Subtotal               300    335    374    456       569          2.2%
55 Villages               63     -       -      -       116           2.1%
Rural Areas              220     -       -      -       475           3.3%
TOTAL KATHMANDU VALLEY  583    657    739    915    1160             2.4%
6.        The high growth rate of 2.8% for Kathmandu Village Panchayats is
justified because these are urban development areas with a comparatively
greater growth potential. The average growth rate of 2.1% for the 55 vil-
lages was based on estimates made during field visits. If the assumptions
are correct the very high growth rate of 3.3% in the scattered settlements
now classed as Rural Areas is justified by long-term improvement in medical
facilities, assuming negligible emigration and little family planning.
7.        At Pokhara, as for Kathmandu, there is insufficient data to make
meaningful demographic projections. The consultants have assumed a 5%
medium growth rate for the Town Panchayat based upon recent developments
such as two new important road links, tourism, the designation of Pokhara
by Government as a regional center, future improved health facilities, and
other factors tending to increase natural growth and migration. This is
already reflected in the 5.2% growth rate during 1970-71. For the high and
low projections a ± 1% variation is allowed for (a) unknown increases in
migration, or (b) a successful family planning program and emigration to the
Terai by part of the underemployed work force. In the surrounding village
areas that may be served with piped water supplies low, medium and upper
growth rates of 1.5%, 2% and 2.5%, close to national and district growth
rates have been assumed as the best possible estimate at this time.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
Panchayat and Village Populations
(Hundreds)
Medium Projection
Area          Year   1971    1972    1977    1982    1992    2002
Pokhara Town                 206      216     276      353     574     935
Adjoining Villages           104      106     117      129     158      192
TOTAL POKHARA              310      322     393     482      732    1127
Population Served
9.        In Kathmandu Valley, during 1971, piped water service was avail-
able to four urban and semi-urban areas with a population of about 300,000,
15 villages lying on trunk mains serving the urban areas, with a population
of about 12,000 and another 25,000 people living in 15 villages with small
water schemes. The remaining 243,000 people living in some 45 villages and
isolated settlements depended on springs, ponds and streams which are often
polluted. At the present time there is very little information on this rural
population.
10.       Of the 300,000 people living in the urban and semi-urban areas it
is estimated that 95% had piped water service. About 55% of those using
water were on public standpipes and more than half the households with
private connections shared the supply with one or two other families:
Urban and Semi-Urban Populations
with Piped Water Service (Thousands)
Panchayat           Total    Served    Private Connections-    Standpipe
Kathmandu Town           150       145              102                   43
Kathmandu Village         41        32               16                   16
Lalitpur Town             59        56                9                   47
Bhaktapur Town            40       41                 2                   39
Bode/Thimi                10        10              Nil                    10
TOTAL               300      284               129                  155
/a   Includes families sharing water supplies with households having private
connections.
11.       The Pokhara studies by the consultants were made in 1972 and of
93% of the total 30,000 population estimated to have piped water service
only 14% were on private connections. It is assumed that with the commis-
sioning of the proposed project in 1977 all the people would have piped
water service.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
Urban and Semi-Urban Populations
with Piped Water Service (Thousands)
Panchayat            Total    Served    Private Connections/       Standpipe
Pokhara Town              22        22                4                   18
Pokhara Village           10         8                0                    8
Total                32       30                4                   26
/a   Includes families sharing water supplies with households having private
connections.
Water Demand Forecasts
12.       Present water demand in the towns of Kathmandu Valley and at
Pokhara is difficult to estimate as, with few exceptions, water service
is not continuous. There are only two daily service periods of about
three hours each when water that has been produced and stored in service
reservoirs is sent into the distribution network.
13.       By analyzing 189 domestic meter readings in Kathmandu it was
estimated that private domestic consumption under the existing six-hour
supply period is about 70.8 1/cd. Field studies of private domestic con-
sumption in seven houses, however, gave a result of 36.9 1/cd for the
average class of house on a six-hour supply and 82.0 1/cd for the best
and rare class of Nepali house with storage tank, and having an almost
continuous service. In another study of water consumption at Boudha, a
suburb of Kathmandu with about 134 connections, the total consumption was
30.3 1/cd and domestic consumption from private connections 46.1 1/cd.
14.       The analysis of domestic meter readings which gave the result of
70.8 1/cd for a six-hour supply period was judged to be the most accurate
of all the studies.
15.       Similar field studies of standpipe consumption gave results
ranging from 46.9 1/cd at Bhaktapur to 7.0 1/cd at Boudha when both areas
had continuous service and 30.9 1/cd in Kathmandu for a six-hour supply
period. The Bhaktapur results were judged to be most typical for a
continuous supply.
16.       Nondomestic water consumption is a small component of total
consumption, and in the absence of records was calculated by a theoretical
study of the few nondomestic consumers on the assumption of a continuous
service.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
17.       The design assumptions for average per capita water consumption
in the Valley towns of Kathmandu, Lalitpur, Bhaktapur and Bode-Thimi during
1971, if there were a continuous water supply, are summarized below.
Population          Average per capita
Category               served             consumption 1/cd
Domestic - private        128,500 (46%)                89.7
Domestic - standpipe      155,424 (54%)                40.0
Total domestic          283,924                     62.5
Nondomestic                                             7.9
Total                                               70.4
18.       The project is designed to meet average demand from spring sources,
and peak demand from well sources. The predicted yield of the spring sources
is based on a few stream-gaugings and available rainfall records, but the
predicted yield of the well sources has yet to be proven from pumping tests
included in the project.  Actual yields from the sources and future water
consumption statistics would therefore determine the timing of the next
stage project, scheduled for commissioning in 1981.
Projected Water Demand
19.       As water charges are to be raised by about 60%, the annual increase
in per capita water consumption of domestic users is expected to be negligi-
ble. To allow for the shift of domestic users from standpipes to internal
services, an annual increase of 1/2 to 1 1/cd in total water consumption is
assumed in the projections.
20.       Unaccounted-for water in Kathmandu arises mainly from wastage and
leakage, and is estimated to total about 50% under the limited six-hour
period of supply. Though no estimate of wastage is possible, field observa-
tions indicate this to. be considerable, and possibly as high as 20% of the
total wastage and leakage. A program for checking wastage by educating the
public and for controlling leakage is included in the project, and it is
assumed in the projections that, when the additional water that will become
available at the completion of the project is distributed, wastage and leak-
age would be controlled at about 50%, and further reduced to about 35% in
1981.
21.       Based on these assumptions, the average consumption and demand
have been estimated for FY 1971--the base year--and projected for the period
1977 to 1981. Because of the small difference in the short term between
the hiigh, medium and low projections, the medium projections for population
growth is used in the forecasts.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
Year               1971     1972      1977      1978     1979      1981
Supply Period          6 hrs          continuous service assumption----
Kathmandu
Population
(thousands)             300       308      351       360      370       390
Population served
(thousands)             284      291       342       352      362       384
Per capita water
consumption 1/cd         54        70       60        72        77       78
Annual water con-
sumption m3000        5,621    7,302    7,537    9,195   10,140   10,985
Unaccounted-for
water (%)              49.2        50       50        45        40       35
Annual watSr
demand m 000         11,060   14,604   15,075   16,718   16,900   16,900
Year               1971      1972     1977      1978     1979      1981
Supply Period          6 hrs    6 hrs    -continuous service assumption-
Pokhara
Population
(hundreds)              310      322       394       410      427       463
Population served
(hundreds)              290      317       368       384      400       433
Per capita water
consumpion 1/cd          17        17       41        42       44        50
Annual water con-
sumption m3000          185       185      550       580      640       790
Unaccounted-for
water (%)                50        50        50       50        50       45
Annual water
demand m3000            370       370    1,100    1,100    1,460    1,460
22.       Because of the lack of data, the Pokhara water consumption assump-
tions were developed from less exhaustive studies than for Kathmandu. Though
consumption is lower here, because of the potential for rapid growth it is
assumed to increase more rapidly than in Kathmandu.
23.       In the absence of data, the maximum-day water consumption for
the project area has been assumed to be 125% of average daily consumption.
The annual maximum day consumption is expected to occur in May/June, the
pre-monsoon months.
Village Water Supplies
24.       The population of the Kathmandu Valley as determined in the 1971
Census was 584,000 persons and at present some 300,000 live within the
urban areas. About 75,000 live in the 64 identifiable settlements with
populations in excess of 200 or 300, and a balance of about 210,000 are



ANNEX 8
Page 8
scattered throughout the rural areas. Fifteen villages with populations
above 1,500, 28 villages with populations between 500 and 1,500, and 12 vil-
lages with populations less than 500, have been identified. Nine additional
villages were identified, but found inaccessible.
25.       Those villages which lie on existing pipeline routes to Kathmandu
or Lalitpur have satisfactory or potentially satisfactory supplies, most of
the remainder are in an unsatisfactory state for various reasons. This
includes some where new schemes have only just been completed. Most of the
villages, therefore, require new water supply projects, even to meet present-
day needs.
26.       A preliminary study to identify the need has been completed, and
preliminary engineering studies are proposed by WSSB. In this stage of the
project, extensions to the distribution system are proposed for eight villages
with adequate sources of supply and with the greatest needs as described
in the following paragraphs.
27.       Four villages on existing transmission pipelines:
Transmission Pipeline        Name of
Serving Village          Village        Population
1. Bir Dhara Scheme            Budhanilkantha        400
2.  Lokhot       iI            Toukel                400
3.  Tri Bhim Dhara Scheme      Nayagaon              400
4.  Sundarijal        "        Gokarna             1,800
Budhanilkantha and Toukel have supplies which require
extension. New water supplies would be provided for
Nayagaon and Gokarna.
28.       Three villages on existing village schemes:
Village Scheme            Name of
or Source               Village        Population
1.  Cowling source                Satungal         1,000
2.  Sankhu scheme                 Salamtar          300
3.  Sunakothi scheme              Thecho          3,500
All these villages are poorly served, and require
additional standpipes.
29.       Chunikhel, population 500, lies on the proposed transmission
pipeline from Pharping to Shainbu.  A small extension with standpipes would
be required to serve this village.
April 8, 1974



NEPAL
NEPAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT AREA POPULATION AND WATER PRODUCTION STATISTICS AND PROJECTIONS
PHASE ONE FIRST STAGE PRODUCTION CAPACITY                                              I             I
DURING AN AVERAGE YEAR
24 + FOR TEN MONTHS                                                                                       r   - - -       _ - - - - - - - - -   _
22 +-MINIMUM                                                                                              I
20
18                                                                                                              ....................... ..........................
z
2    16 -                                                                                                         PHARPING, EANSBARI
f )LU                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WATE Pm RODUCTION *AND BANIATAR WELLS                                  0
-             ACTU(LEFT                                                                                                                                 _
U 14                                                                      _
02 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~
=0)    EXISTING PRODUCTION CAPACITY                                                                                                              W
12  DURING AN AVERAGE YEAR 
12 0-PFOR TEN MONTHIS                                                                                                                                            a3
...........- -....  -----.--                                                                                                                             300 
z 10 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    .--L IIRIGPOPULATION40Z
2-                                                                                                   PHA-INGAND                             (RIGHT SCALE)
42   8 -                                                                                             KALI KHOLA SPRINGS
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4 
2
-ACTUAL        . { 4ESTIMATED 
1971                       1973                                      1976                                      1979                        1981
World Bank-7937






NEPAL
NEPAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Internal Financial Rate of Return
Year Ending July 15         1974    1975     1976     1977     1978    1979    1980    1981
TO
1998
…________-…--__----------…NRs 000's…
Incremental Revenue              -        775    2,260    3,531    5,394   7,032   8,801  10,281
Less: Incremental Operating
Cost               424    1,374    1,311    1,131    1,442   1,505   1,584   1,699
Net Incremental Revenue        ( 424)    (599)    949    2,400    3,952   5,527   7,217   8,582
Project Cost                   2,779   10,129   34,o54   26,029    4,962
INTERNAL FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN IS APPROXIMATELY 7.6%
February 14, 1974



ANNEX 10
Page 2
NEPAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Internal Financial Rate of Return
1.        The rate of return calculation takes as benefits the incremental
revenues earned by the project, and takes as costs the project costs and
the incremental operating costs net of depreciation. All revenues and costs
are at 1973 price levels, and do not include taxes.
2.        The following assumptions have been made to arrive at the calcula-
tions shown on Page 1 of this Annex:
(a) Incremental revenues are those derived from
additional water sales arising from the project
at the rates of charges proposed from July 15, 1974.
These exclude HMG payments for standpipes.
(b) The incremental operating costs are taken from
the projections in Annex 12 and are reduced to
constant prices. The estimated costs of the
ODA expatriate staff have been added to the
operating costs.
(c) The project costs are as shown in Annex 3, less
price contingencies and consultants fees for
Stage II.
3.        The return on the basis of the above assumptions is approximately
7.6% for the whole project. The separate parts of the project show differ-
ing returns indicating a large subsidy by the Kathmandu water and sewerage
component to the Pokhara component as follows:
% Return
Kathmandu water and
sewerage                  8.0
Pokhara water                1.9
Total Project    7.6
4.        A 10% increase or decrease .n the project cost would vary the
return by about 1% either way and a 10% increase or decrease in the operating
cost would vary the return by about one-half percent either way. A 20% re-
duction in the proposed level of c...rges would reduce the return to approx-
imately 4.1%.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
5.        Other benefits of the project are health and social improvements
and the ending of further deterioration to the existing installations, all
of which are difficult to quantify.
April 8, 1974






NEPAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE BOARD
SECRETARY
MINISTRY OF WATER AND POWER
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE BOARD
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
PROJECT-IN-CHARGE
MANAGER                                                                                          |MANAGERl
|    ENGINEERING                                                                                              r  INANCE AND ADMINISTRATION l
ENGINEER/MANAGE                DE        EFO                  CHIEF OF                                                              CHIEF OF                           CHIEF OF
POKHARA                   DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION                              OPERAIONS                                    ADMINISTRATION                         FINANCE
lPLANNINGANDWATER SOURCES AND                                   SEWAEOFFICE
_   WATER OPERATIONS         _    DEVELOPMENT               TREATMENT PLANTS                  TREATMENT PLANTS                       ERV CES                    BUDGET
l  DESIGN   l   A  REHABILITATION                                                                                            REREWEE
-1AND CONSTRUCTION  l                    WORKS                DITIBTO  NEAR                          NETWOR                           PERSONNEL      l      l      RENUr
2   WATER    l            | ~~~~WATER AND SEWER          LEA DETETIO
HOUSEENCONNECTIONSOUSWASTENECTIOENT|ON                                                         PUBLIC RELATIONS              EXPENDITURE
ADMINISTRATION AND                 WATER AND SEWER       A         METER                                                                                        BILLING AND 
FINANCEEXTENSIONS  [       WORK                                                              AND SUPPLYl COLLECTIDgr
-|PROJECT ENGINEER                                                                                  TRANPOR
STORES
World Bank-793B(R)






NEPAL WATER 000010 AOW S0W0880  01R3EC
00-  to .100, 05                                    090027                                                 t        E77                                              9510617                                                                             90'0                                                   ola,
taoaaorolootaeottoo,           12,~~~991    30,0           14,86.   3,300             1 6,494    3,3~0W           11,081    9,9700        -  20376   3,900                23,b63   3,300          -    6,723   5,100              29,991  7,100               39,260  9,100           - 36,685  11,1160           -1,2,46   13,100  
taltata  Ortdtorot5 ROta        0,0~~60      -        -     7,180                      7,30          -             7,830         -060                        -        -12,90            -         - 0,5                                                       16,0- - 1863  --              832 IC                     890                
toon  Salt a3 .033                          0,30        -               3,540 '                   3.6t0         -3 9915                     -               13,                        630          -        -     i3           -                ls         -        -      .3                          31,05                     lo 209              
----,,atdtr                                    51        -                  0        -        -       9                            7        -         ---0                                           -        -        00       -         -       5         -        -      47.5        -                   05                                        
A-.,.,  Oto02-0e00~O0.2                                  -                .26        -        -     0.38         -                .9                  -      o66        -                 70  .71                               -                0.00       --8,9                               --      03                          1.15--
ll~~ ~ti- - T-I-   -0-  3 0                                                           35-   -6-                                                                                                                                                        -                                   4~    -4-6
7o t,lataa         a 30O0313                             -                 23        -        -      333                          31,5      -                  56       -                 637       -                 79                          3950      -660                                                                      79-
ll,tetaptOt/0t                                 30                          3        30                0 P                          31                          33       -                 6        -7 6                         -        -         5        -        -        6                                               
OV…-ATIN, P8'…-
POIIOtWO                    0,300        -   ~~~~1,101   0,070       -     1,27      137         -     1,3    I,so4               i ,514    2,887        -      ,1,8    4,295             4,093    5,511             5,510      7,338      694.  4,030      0,642   1,078   9,720    10,086   a, 48I1 05,67   14,195   2,196    t,t
t0'oataoaalraa           '0       -        72 ~~~~~~~~~~-,~13  -      I3      1,37        -        f       02         -       02         i8       -       00        0                 320      413       -      413        05        50     602'       61 8      81      779        756     lt       67    308         3.      70
,004  00000001900001400               1,1773            1,173    0,4,9              1,4107    3,4,78       -      ,478   1,606         -     ,826    3,005         -    3,305    4,602         -     ,61      5,904       -    5.904      7,886      7416   6,632     9,290   1.159  10,4419    10,842   1,597  12,434155,153   05             17,578
-rbor                                   037        -      4137      460        -       6.7      484.       -      484       8 15      -        645     687       97        7I4     008      008       917      990      175   1,105      1.260      9i40   1,600     1.16.      i6s    1,725    1,460        300   0.842    t,s58       364    1,950
OOoa,.Ooaa,        70       -        73        85       -        85        93       -         93      370       -       17W      300        -       090     193        - 3920071                   -      272        087        -    087         301.       -      304       300        -      300       343        -      941
roars                          08~~~~~~~~~~2  -  0         31       -        30        33       -        33        56                56       59        -        59       63       -         63     194        -      134,       141      16      157        150       29      159       159       47      004      188       63       231
200ta1,tratlot oat tetoota  74      -       ~~~~91   I, 15      -       05        14        -      o6         19       -        19      330       39        374     33,3      53        996     314      109     1,3        456      17      619        46o.     o66       61,       15      173       52       3        7  
3a00a00 and W,ootra,oao       WOo5c      -      251       063        -       6        0275       -      275       oIl       -        2o60    965        -        36      9 75       -        3025      409     50     4,63       445       53     498        471       61       f5        1,9      60      79        ¶1        t  
oalarO,rPtCOielOa  25  -  25     03        -       25        00        -       5.0       74       -         y1,    155        -       155      006        -       006      242        -     392        378       41     1,27       490%2     70242  -  1  41s89  59156198690 7609_                  148 _77
07512 7076011011 olPOdOSo     976               908       976        -      976    1,009         -     .009    1,350        -     1.952   3,710       336     1,937   4,987       061     2.348   23,00       934   2,644      0,965      1102   1,570     3,253      686    3,943    3,340        759   6,700     3,898      8410    1,71
Oa-aa- 003,,  epeoo-                          26,       -       265       1,31      -       433       469               469      274        - -     274,   1,384    (1316)   1,188    2,990    (1613   o,4O9        ,67      (331,    9.000    4,801      199  .1.060     8,03        4073    8,a      7;302      133   0,135   A321        ,1      12,7-
1,168       50i   1,038    1,194        50    1,244    1,255        50    1,397    10933        50    3.347   1,14?o.o                                  E    ,06        1 671     300    1.171,   2.434   j14fl    2.4.        260 130            394       269      .2       ,0        .0      .         ,0
Itotte coOcr, Oo,rrtot           1~~~~903)    (503    (953)    47693    (903    38333    (786)      sod)    (836)    (829)    (to)    (873)       970    (i86i)      14      ,41o8    (001)  7,270o     2,3od    (6o4)   393,6    2, 495   (1,039)  i,4i6      3,379    9647)   2,932    4,623    (4639  4.360   9,891            193    9,002
IttaoaatI4tt Gapttolaaeo  -  -  -  -  -  -  -        -         -                 -        -         -        -        -                 -         -…1,286                                                                 aBA    2473       0,818   2.308   2,843    313.491   2,088      4.0-74--L    -L--    -L-   -4.
oct iroote                       ~~~~~~~~~~(903)    (53)    (953)    (7833    (so)    (013)    (766)    (93)    (036)    (003)   (so)    (873)    00      (000)      :4    0,4100    (221)  i,770       2,44o    (638)   2,806    2,451  (1,035)  4,416         2,0941  (2,033)      61    2,108  (2,4,29   7007)   8,105  (2,065)   4,o47
Aotoaa  Set tA-e                           30,324     575   30.399   31.368       525   31,893   32,039       475   30,304   32,9830    403   33,307       34, M      375   31,396   33.884       325  34,009    73,161   273   82,791   86,946  49.299 a36,2u.8    88,883  50.978  197,831   08,860  o9,583  13a,844o 113,885734,813  (88,372
oatse-Otet-ra                                   -       -         -         -       -         -         -       -         -         -       -         -         I       -        4         1        1       41         4      -2                   3    -I                     (a    -            2         8                 3        R        G         9
097.ottoa7at- ¶o'    tpeoto%                   70       -        70        IN      -         69        68        -       68        83       -         83       57       -      62        43         -      4t         339               45        36       63      41         39       99        36        3        48       35       26       36        27
mooh 12, 1604






NEPAL
NEPAL WATER SUPPLY 550 SEWERAGE PROJECT
Consolidated Cash Flow Statements for WSSB
Appro-imate      Aetoels      Prob.ble       Estihate                                     ProjeOto...
Year to July 15                              1971           1972           193           19           1975        197t       19(7        r978       979        1980        1981
------------------__------_-------------_-----_--___-------_-- NRs 0OOO - ---_----------_-----------_--------_----------------------____
SOURCES
Internal Cash
Net Income before Interest                 (953)           (813)        (836)          f873)         14 _ 1 ,272         1,806      1,416       2,532      4,136       B,f44
Depreciation                              ! ,218         1.244         1,.305        1,147        1,174      1,199       1,474      3,644       3,974      3,999       4,024
Total Coteroal Cash GOnerstion              265            431           469           274        1,l15      2,469       3,500      5,&V0       0,70D      0,135      i2,7W
Government Of2 Nepal                      1,683          2,077         1,522         3,636        3,093     12,438       8,771      2,517           -      7,000       7,000
Consumers                                                                                           823      1,424       1.850      2.oo4      2,125       2,289    _     ,
Total Contributiot                        1,683          2,077        1,522          3,636        3,916     13,862     10,621       h,521      2,125       9,289       9,247
Borcrossing
IDA Credit                                    -              -             -         2,6o0        9,200     29,700      31,500      9,368           -          -           -
Future  Loan                                  -              -             -           _              -          -           -      3,168      1,2588     22,176     22,176
Total 3or-owing                               -               -            -         2,600        9,200     29,700      31,500      12,536    11,o88      22,176     22,176
OTHER SOURU{:S
Change- m Current Tidbilitie-
Net Accounts Payable                                                                   240          620      2,110         615      (1,475)      (335)     2           1.960
TOTAL SOURCES                          1,948          2,508        1,991          6,750     1i,924.   48.i141       46,016       20,642      384       4L600      Jb ..
APPLICATIONS
Construotios
Project Stage I                                                                      2,936       12,293     42,138      36,o47      7,661                       -          -
Development Stage II                                                                      -           -           -      4,224      9,444      18,626     37,727      39,058
Other Worka                               1,565          2,493         1,879         2,300        1,0 00     1.00        1,000      1.000       1,000      1,000       1.000
Total Constracti-o                        1,565          2,493         1,879          5,236      13,293     43,138      41,271     18,105      19,626     38,727      40,o58
Debt Service Vi
A.ortisntoon                                  _-                                          -                                                      1,092     2,283        2,422
Totere-                                       -              _              _                           -          _          _           _     2 827      6,031        7,22
Total Debt Service                         -              - -                                        -          -          -           -                8,314       9,5
lot.re-t C-                                 -              -                           -          -,,                    -       356      11I85       2.519
Less:  losercot Copzptallaed_____                                                                                                                          712          710
Net Debt Service
OTNNPR AF9LIEATIhSS
Net Accounts Reelivabls                      59              59            70           101         259         274        306         272         91         (21)        845
Inentor-es                                  3?24            (44)           42           225         70S         744        ..i39       243        260        .272.        291
Total Changes in Curer-t A-sets             383             15            112           326         962       1,018      1,145         515         351        251       1,136
TOyAl APPLICATTONS                     1,948          2,508          1,991         5,562   1 4,    2     5 4i.L6     42.416      15620       Z,54L-   4_6104        _8.320
Changea to Cas                                   -               -             -         1,188          669      3,985       3,600      2,022    (4,156)    (4,504)        2,169
Casll Brought Forward                            _               _             _              -       1,188      1,857       5,842      9,442      11,464       7,308      2,804
Csoo  Carrild Forward                            -               _             _          1,188       1,857      5,842       9,442     11,464       7,308       2,804        635
2/ 
Debt Servo6e Cove-ed(ti-OO)                      _               _                            -                                                        1.7         1.0       l.
21/ -NO debt oczvice -o paysble untol FY 1979 die to the 5 year grace perdtod allowed In the onlending teUnns.
,deee  ace below the debt covenant reqoi-eneot of 1.5 but 0111 be reviewed at the tine of the Tariff Study (0ee paa. 6.19
Maral. 12. 1974



nEPAL
NEPAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Consolidated Balance Sheets for WSSB
Approximate     Actuals      Probable     Estimate                                        Projections
Year to July 15                              1971          1972         1973          1974        1975        197T       1977         1978         1979          0         1981
---------------------------------------------------------- NRs OoO's --------------------------------------------------------------
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross in Operation                     43,929         46,898       47,719        51,077     52,077      53,077     145,772      15_5,61      159,961     160,961      271,U4U
Less:  Depreciation                    12,898        14,142        15,447        16,594     17,765      18,967      14,299      17,943       21,917       25,916       29,940
Set in Operation                       31,031         32,756       32,272        34,483     34,309      34,110     131,473      1J4,O1      138,U1M      lJb,UGS      21a,100
Work in Progress                          476              -       322758         2,936     15,527      58,825       4,224       13,668       32,294      70,021      2
Subtotal                          31,507        32,756        33,330       37,419      49,836     92,935      135,697     154,606      170,338      205,066      241,100
Current Assets
Inventories                             1,555          1,511        1,553         1,778      2,4d1       3,225       4,064        4,307       4,567        4,839        5,130
Net Accounts Receivable                   169            228          298           399        658         932       1,238        1,510       1,601        1,580        2,425
Cash                                        -              -            -         1,188      1,857       5,542       9,442       11,464       7,305        2,804          635
Subtotal                           1,724          1,739        1,851         3,365      4,996       9,999      14,744       17,281      13,476        9,223        6,190
TOTAL ASSETS                                 33_231        34,495        35,181       40,784     54,832    102,934      150,441      171,967      183,814     214,289      249,290
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EgXsity
Accoumuated Surplus                    (2,030)        (2,843)       (3,679)      (4                     ''a' qj15                                           (6392)      3,362
Contribution                           35.261         37           38             2                        ,32         318       84,37)      86,49        95,01       105,020
Subtotal                          33,231         34,495       35,181        37,944     42,172      58,464      73,856       54,321      86,507       95,089      108,376
Debt
Long Term Gross                              -             -             -        2,600     11,800      41,500      73,000       85,536      95,532      115,425      135,179
Less:  Current Maturities                                                                                               -         1,092        2,283       2,422        2,570
Long Term Net                                -             -             -        2,600     11,800      41,500      73,000       84,444       93,249     113,003      132,bO9
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                             -             _             _          240         860      2,970        3,585       2,110        1,775        3,775       5,735
Current Maturities--                                                                                                              1,092        2,283       2,422        2,570
Subtotal                               _              _             _          240        860       2,970       3,585        3,202        4,058       6,197        8,305
TOTAL EQUITY/LIABILITIES                     33,231        34,495        35,181       40,784      54,832    102,934      150,441     171,967       ,W14        214,289      249,290
Debt as a % of Fixed Assets                       _              _            _             7         *24         45          54           55           55          55           55
Current Ratio (times)                             _              _            -            14          6           3           4            5            3           1            1
Receivables as a % uf Revenue                     -              -            -            25         21          20          21           17           15          13           14
iarch 12, 1974



ANNEX 15
Page 1
NEPAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
1.        The financial statements in Annexes 12, 13 and 14 cover the water
supply and sewerage operations in the Kathmandu Valley including Bhaktapur
and Lalitpur and also the water supply operations in Pokhara. The figures
for FY 1971 to FY 1973 are accounts prepared on an accrual basis by the
consultants from information kept by WD on a cash basis and are a reasonable
presentation of the position during those years. The figures for FY 1971
and FY 1972 are based on the completed years' figures and are described as
"approximate actuals". The figures for FY 1973 are based on the partly
completed years' figures and are described as "probable". The figures for
FY '1974 are based on the HMG budget for that year and are described as
"estimate". All other figures are described as "projections". Where the
information behind the statements has been taken from the consultants'
preliminary report, it has been tested for reasonableness and where it
has not been agreed, details of this are stated below or in the appraisal
report. An addition of 6% a year has been made to allow for price inflation.
2.        Consolidated Income and Expenditure Statements (Annex 12).  These
are a consolidation of the consultants' separate figures for Kathmandu Valley
and Pokhara water for the years FY 1971 to FY 1973 and a consolidation of
the appraisal teams' separate projections thereafter, including the Kathmandu
sewerage projections.
3.        Kathmandu Valley and Pokhara Water
(a) The number of connections is taken from the consultants'
report and these are detailed as follows:



ANNEX 15
Page 2
Year
Ending
July 15                 N E W                       T O T A L
Kathmandu      Metered  Unmetered  Total    Metered  Unmetered  Total
1970                          1/              11a   10,315    lo,456
1971            449       996-  1,445         590    11,311    11,901
1972          1,279       733    2,012      1i,846   12,067    13,913
1973            354     1,333    1,687      2,200    13,400    15,600
1974            100     1,320    1,1420     2,300   1,720    17,020
1975          2,000       174    2,174      4,300    14,894    19,194
1976          4,000    (1,014)   2,986      8,300    13,880    22,180
1977          6,000    (3,040)   2,960    14,300    10,840    25,140
1978          6,000    (3,032)   2,968    20,300      7,808    28,108
1979          6,000    (3,026)   2,974    26,300      1,782    31,082
1980          6,000    (2,880)   3,120    32,300      1,902    34,202
1981          5,029    (1,902)   3,127    37,329          -    37,329
Pokhara.
1970                                                    610       610
1971                       80        80                 690       690
1972                       63        63                 753       753
1973                      101       101                 854       854
1974                      127      127                  981       981
1975            142        59      201        142     1,040     1,182
1976            401      (200)     201        543       840     1,383
1977            400      (200)     200        943       640     1,583
1978            500      (200)     300      1,443       440     1,883
1979            500      (200)     300      1,943       240     2,183
1980            500      (200)     300      2,443        40    2,,483
1981            474      ( 40)     434      2,917         -     2,917
Standpipes are included in both figures and are expected to
be metered in M1975. The total of standpipes is estimated at a peak
of 827 in FY1973 decreasing to 495 in FY1981.
1/ The totals shown in parenthesis are reductions in the numbers of
unmetered connections as these connections become metered.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
(b) Water production in Kathmandu Valley is based on the
consultants' assessment for FY 1971 of 30,300 m3 per
day dropping by 1,000 m3 per day upon the failure of
the Bode well in July 1972 and increasing again by
1,000 m3 per day in July 1975 on construction of a new
well for Bode. Then increasing by 10,000 m3 per day
on the bringing into use of the Pharping Springs in
July 1976 and by another 6,000 m3 per day in 1977 from
the Kutori Mul intake and the Bansbari and Baniatar
wells to a total in October 1977 of 46,300 m3 per day.
In Pokhara the present production is 1,000 m3 per day
increasing progressively to 4,000 m3 per day in
July 1979.
(c) Water losses are presently assessed at 50% of production
and it is expected that the work by the waste detection
teams should maintain this position despite the large
increases in water production in FY 1976 onwards. In
FY 1979 it is expected that water losses should start
reducing with the percentage of losses down to 35% in
1981. Without the efforts of the waste detection teams
it is estimated that the losses could go as high as
75X with a 24 hour supply.
(d) Billings are projected on the basis of the likely demand
for the balance of water left for consumption after the
above figures have been taken into account and at the rates
of charge set out in Annexes 16 and 17 and with projected
increases in these charges in FY 1978 and FY 1981.
(e) Additional fees as detailed in Annex 16 are projected at
about 7-1/2% of billings. This was the probable level of
collections in FY 1973.
(f) Labor and administration costs are projected on the basis
of the consultants' figures and IIMG's increase in wages
in July 1973 and reflect the expected increase in costs
in FY 1974 upon the creation of WSSB and again in FY 1978
upon the creation of an independent corporation.
(g) Chemicals and power are projected at the level of present
requirements plus future requirements assessed by the
consultants.
(h)  Repairs and maintenance costs are projected from the HMG
estimate for FY 1974 plus special jobs to be carried out
in Kathmandu in FY 1975 and FY 1976 plus the consultants'
forecast of expenditure in Pokhara.



ANNEX 15
Page 4
(i) The bad debts provision is projected at about 5% of
billings. The consultants had recommended a figure
of 25% in FY 1974 decreasing by 2% annually to 5% in
FY 1984. This is considered to be too high in view
of the methods there are of enforcing payment; firstly,
through the additional fee detailed in Annex 16, which
climbs rapidly to 100% of the amount due if this is
not paid within 90 days. Secondly, there is the ultimate
penalty of disconnection for non-payment. Even a flat
5% may be too high but it is considered to be suitably
prudent at this stage.
4.        Kathmandu Valley Sewerage
(a) The number of connections to the sewers are projected on
the consultants' forecasts which are reasonable.
(b) Billings are projected at 50% of the water charges for
those consumers connected to the sewer.
(c) The additional fee is projected at about 7-1/2% of billings
(see 3(e) above).
(d) Labor, power, administration and repairs and maintenance
costs are as calculated by the consultants adjusted for
HMG's increase in wages in July 1973 and are reasonable.
(e) The bad debts provision is approximately 5% of the billings
each year (See 3(i) above).
5.        Consolidated Cash Flow Statements (Annex 13).  Consultant's fees
amounting to NRs 8,448 thousand for the "Development Stage II" are included
under this heading in years FY 1977 and FY 1978 although they are financed
as part of the Project Stage I.
6.        Consolidated Balance Sheets (Annex 14)
(a) These are a consolidation of the accounts prepared by the
consultants separately for Kathmandu Valley and Pokhara
for FY 1971 to FY 1973 and the projections made by the
appraisal team up to FY 1981 including those made for
Kathmandu sewerage.
(b) The gross value of assets in operation is based on a 1972
replacement value of all existing assets assessed by the
consultants. The depreciation total at FY 1972 is
calculated at various rates of depreciation from the
actual time when the asset was acquired which are summarized
as follows:



ANNEX 15
Page 5
Rate of
Type of Asset                Depreciation
Civil Engineering Works                 2
Plant and Equipment                     5
Meters and Similar Equipment           10
Vehicles                               20
For the purpose of projection calculations an overall rate of
2-1/2% of the asset values at the beginning of each year has
been taken except for the sewerage assets mentioned below.
The projections include the proposed project and also bring
in a second stage of development in FY 1981. Certain
sewerage assets valued at NRs 6,142,000 are to be taken out
of service in FY 1977. The value of fixed assets and the
amount of depreciation are both reduced by this amount. A
notional calculation of interest during construction has been
made and the amounts have been added to the value of fixed
assets in a total of NRs 8,951,000 during FY 1975 to FY 1978.
(c) Inventories are calculated on a FY 1973 value of NRa 1.5
million of general stocks including pipes and specials
escalated at 6% a year, plus one month's supply of fuel
for vehicles and four months' supply of chemicals for
water treatment plus new stocks required for the sewerage
service.
*d) Net accounts receivable are 25% of the total years'
billings plus arrears less the bad debts reserve.
(e)  The equity contribution includes the HMG contributions
to operating costs in the early years and to the project,
notional interest during construction (see para 6b) and
the consumers' payment of water connection charges.
(f) Long term debt includes the proceeds of the proposed IDA
credit for the first stage of the project plus monies
to be borrowed at 6% interest for a second stage of
development.
(g) Accounts payable are made up of accrued retention monies,
50% of the annual cost of chemicals and the amount of
one month's power bills.
April 1, 1974






ANNEX 16
Page 1
NEPAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Schedule of Present Water Charges
NRs
1.        Non-metered Supply
(a) Kathmandu Metropolitan area (Kathmandu, Lalitpur and Bhaktapur)
Monthly Charge for
Each Additional
Offtake from Main
Size of Main Connection   Monthly Charge        Connection
1/2"                    7.00               2.00
31411                  20.00               4.00
1"                     40.00               8.00
1-1/2"                120.00              20.00
2"                    240.00              35.00
3"                    652.00              70.00
4"                  1,350.00             200.00
(b) All Other Areas of Nepal (including Pokhara)
Monthly Charge for
Each Additional
Offtake from Main
Size of Main Connection    Monthly Charge       Connection
1/2"                    3.00               1.00
3/4"                    6.75               1.00
1"                     12.00               1.50
1-1/2"                 27.00               1.50
2"                     48.00               4.00
3"                    108.00               4.00
4"                    192.00               6.00
2.        Metered Supply
Up to and including 14,000 liters in each month a minimum
charge of NRs 7.00 per month.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
In excess of 14,000 liters in each month a charge of NRe 0.01
for each additional 20 liters (NRe 0.50 for each additional 1,000 liters).
3.        Additional Fee
If the charge is not paid within the time limit (within the
month following the month due) an additional fee shall be collected as
follows:
(a) 10% of the amount of the charge, if paid within 15 days
after the expiry of the time limit.
(b) 20% of the amount of the charge, if paid after 15 days,
but within 30 days from the date of the expiry of the
time limit.
(c) 50% of the amount of the charge, if paid after 30 days,
but within 3 months from the date of the expiry of the
time limit.
(d) 100% of the amount of the charge, if paid after 90 days,
but within 6 months from the date of the expiry of the
time limit.
October 11, 1973



ANNEX 17
Page 1
NEPAL
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Schedule of Proposed Water and Sewerage Charges
General
1.        The difficulty with introducing a schedule of charges in Nepal
is the almost complete lack of information on past performance. Because
of the very limited number of meters, the actual details of water consumption
at individual connections is only partially known. Very little is known
about the willingness and the ability of the various classes of consumers
to pay. From the various projections of new water supplies and the likely
costs, and also taking into account the requests of HMG, the Schedule of
Charges at Page 4 was prepared, discussed with the Nepalese delegation and
recommended to them at the time of negotiations.
2.   3    The consultants recommended a single basic rate of NRe 1.00
per m to cover all classes of consumer, and with no specific charge for
the sewerage service. HMG requested a rate which would maximize the revenues
of WSSB, with a basic rate for small consumption and a higher rate for large
consumption. A 50% surcharge would be imposed on all consumers connected to
the sewer when the new sewerage system is completed in about July 1977.
3.        Universal metering of water connections was started in FY 1971
although there has not been much progress on this in recent months. The
very high wastage of water, and the high cost of bringing in new supplies
of water support the consultants' recommendation for universal metering.
The Charges - Metered
4.        The schedule of proRosed charges contains a basic rate for water
consumption of NRe 0.50 per m (US$0.18 per 1,000 U.S. gallons) and a rate
of NRe 0.80 per m3 (US$0.29 per 1,000 U.S. gallons) for all consumption in
excess of 10,000 liters per month. This latter charge is an increase of 60%
over the present charge.   The minimum charge for metered consumers with a
1/2" connection is reduced from NRs 7.00 to NRs 5.00 in Kathmandu and Bhaktapur
and to NRs 3.00 in Lalitpur and Pokhara. This will reduce the charge to the
small consumer and should not discourage him from taking a metered supply. All
connections larger than 1/2" will pay a progressively higher minimum charge
according to pipe size.



ANNEX 17
Page 2
The Charges - Flat Rate
5.        The charge for one tap on a 1/2" connection is at present NRs 7.00
per month in Kathmandu, Lalitpur and Bhaktapur and NRs 3.00 per month in
Pokhara. These have been changed to NRs 9.00 in Kathmandu and NRs 3.00 in
Lalitpur and Pokhara but with no change in Bhaktapur. The charges for taps
on larger size connections and for additional taps are the same for all areas
and have been subjected to large increases with the intention of charging a
proper rate for flat rate supplies and also encouraging these consumers to
take a metered supply. It is expected that the consumers on flat rate with
large connections and several taps will very rapidly be metered and the flat
rate charges will then mostly be restricted to small consumers.
Standpipes
6.        HMG has agreed that a payment should be made in future for stand-
pipes. The consultants have advised that the average consumption at a
standpipe is 6 m3 a day whichwould require a payment of NRs 141 per month
at the new rates of charge. However, in order not to overburden HMG with
charges for standpipes, it was agreed that a charge of NRs 100 be imposed
for each standpipe, and this charge is considered by HMG to be reasonable.
At the end of FY 1974 there are expected to be about 800 standpipes in
Kathmandu and Pokhara so that the charge to HMG will be about NRs 80,000
a month. As soon as new meters become available, WSSB will meter all
standpipes to record the amount of water being used, and to check the
reasonableness of the proposed charge to HMG for standpipes. WSSB will
take similar action on water supplies to other villages in the Valley,
included in the project.
Sewerage Charges
7.        The sewerage surcharge of 50% of water charges is an entirely
new charge in Nepal and is to be imposed on those water consumers connected
to the sewer effective about July 1977. The present sewerage system is
quite inadequate and does not give the sort of service which could justify
making a charge for it. When the new sewerage service is brought into use
in 1977, the imposition of a charge will then be justified. A charge for
the sewerage service based on a tax on property, cannot be used, as no
property tax is at present levied for any purpose nor are property values
recorded and periodically updated. A charge based upon water consumption
is proposed. By FY 1978, most consumers should be metered, and WSSB will
make it a matter of priority to meter the large consumers and those connected
to the sewer.
Ability and Willingness to Pay
8.        The proposed increase in the unit rate detailed above amounts
to about 60% in FY 1975. This is a very large increase and its approval
in principle by HMG gives a very strong indication of HMG's desire generally
to maximize its revenues. The new charges for water consumption although



ANNEX 17
Page 3
close to, are less than those proposed by the consultants, which were con-
sidered by them to be within the ability of the consumers to pay. This view
has still to be tested along with the question of the consumers' willingness
to pay and will be part of the tariff study.
9.        The low income groups will continue to draw their water from
standpipes free of charge, but will change over to individual house
connections as the supplies of water become available. The other income
groups, using individual connections will pay the approximate cost of
the services.
April 8, 1974



ANNEX 17
Page 4-
NEPAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE BOARD
SCHEDULE OF PROPOSED WATER AND SEWERAGE CHARGES
FOR INTRODUCTION ON JULY 15, 1974
1.   IMETERED SUPPLY
A.  RATE OF CHARGE
0 - 10,000 Liters NRe 0.50 per 1,000 Liters
Excess over 10,000 Liters NRe 0.80 per 1,000 Liters
B.   MINIMUM CHARGE
RATE PER MONTH
KATHMANDU/BHAKTAPUR           LALITPUR/POKHARA
CONNECTION SIZE               AMOUNT NRs                   AMOUNT NRs
i,.                            5.00                         3.00
3/4,,                         20.00                        20.00
1"                            40.00                       40.00
1½"1                         120.00                      120.00
21"                          200.00                      200.00
3"                           60o.00                      600.00
4"1                        1,200.00                    1,200.00
2.    UNMETERED SUPPLY
RATE PER MONTH
CONNECTION
SIZE         KATHKANDU              BHAKTAPUR            LALITPUR/POKHARA
1ST TAP   OTHER TAPS  1ST TAP   OTHER TAPS  1ST TAP   O1HER TAPS
½"         9.00        3.00       7.00        3.00       3.00        2.00
3/4"      30.00        6.oo      30.00        6.oo      30.00        6.oo
l"       60.00       12.00      60.00       12.00      60.00       12.00
1½"      170.00       30.00     170.00       30.00     170.00       30.00
2"1      340.00       50.00     340.00       50.00     340.00       50.00
3"       930.00      100.00     930.00      100.00     930.00      100.00
4"1    1,930.00      285.00   1,930.00      285.oo   1,930.00      285.00
3.    STANDPIPES
NRs. 100 each per month (payable by H.M, Government)
4.    SEWERAGE
50 Surcharge on total Water Charges, (when and where applicable.)
5.    ADDITIONAL FEE
If the charge is not paid within the time limit (within the month following
the month due) an additional fee shall be collected as follows:
(a)  10% of the amount of the charge, if paid within 15 days after the
expiry of the time limit.
(b)  20% of the amount of the charge, if paid after 15 days, but -within
30 days from the date of the expiry of the time limit.
(c)  50% of the amount of the charge, if paid after 30 days, but within
3 months from the date of the expiry of the time limit.
(d)  100% of the amount of the charge, if paid after 90 days, but within
6 months from the date of the expiry of the time limit.



_ 0 eo-                                       52-                                            84-                                                    N   E   P  A         L E P A
WATER SUPPY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
I N D I A                                               T  I  N   A                                                                      EXISTING   AND   PLANNED  WATER  SUPPLIES
-30*/                              
-30,         \         \                                                                                                O      Existing Water Supplies
A     Water Supplies Under Construction
o     Towns and Villages
PlthorogarhX  /      \         [       ,9                 >                                                                -     Existing Roads
Roads Under Construction,to be completed by 1974
/I  - - ~--    Roads Expected to be completed by 1976
/    Railways
Dandeidhura    z   <   >  (  <   Q2   h         --        Ropeway
T / R                   Eo )> OS     I     bur i-Donak  j ORmiikot  R                                                                   Ccmmercial Airports
Tanokp n => I/Rivers
-n d  |  - --   Zonal Boundaries
,>j AoMahend saga, tg r - , ; > ,        c _ International Bou,lntories
<  phaaunr,;hOn9a    h j    c~~Doilekh                .       D A        AL R 
Ph     t     hongo;ar &kie  2 X°A 
-:i~~~~~~~~~r
Mur         Koolurh                                    lu0                                    elar                                  (T  I B  E T)              Th d                 1,~
~~   rYy~.an  ~~  2  Nuwaliot  ~~Plangtor                        
N.    KoIabas7~~-6it2ur     ~' TRIS~                         Gaushala         ~                ~           s-,ur  Trisul
Jorm  L U  M    N           N  Bls~~~~~~~~~ara  ya                              ir',L.kl *I.
N   I     r~~~~~~~~~~                       oa  r         Lh     ~     4        r              ab 
(Ti be)                                                              ha    hi'kn T             m khg'n    R6                             Ln,indndoi    Jobn
0  T.     I lm \A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SVKKIM                                                                                                                                       *O~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIE
52'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(h                                                         h           I1ML~re~n






18~~~~~________________________IRD 10644R 
X -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                    -~                                                                                                                        F4D J >RX0;o.yfs___;4 0    ,>EEiFGOR R441
Ae~ ~ ~ ~~~~
NEPAL~~~~~~~~~~~~'
t   raR   -  ; A       -;   |t--      tIP° <t ( { -    </         <    65t0    \    ~    '      '                   ~                    0                        !          v    x -
4444                 -4 -/                                                                                                                                 T     -   ,
t  j  O \ 5 \ t M 4'                                4                                       /                                                 444
4444;tv /n< } cRhunhil g) X * - 4 4 4 4 4 4 4  \\   Iz   cHuLlKHCL
_ \ Rtt.d ? OTh4hE r; < \ >4  E        PA                           L
'--^^,sfsp.    5'''"b a              Y                                                                 0       WAER  UPPY AD   EWEAGEPROEC
1~~~~~~ 2                                                                  /E5S:q&(    K;'S S,_KTMNUVLE
UILR                                                                     ' frf   uIv{                                          C  J  . o
_ t AnErs Y ff XR v _ ' / i-{___2qS tSr eRRvr
\~~~~44                                                                  -4         -AlM>>1*;  t~s>  0  R~   lRrhI
PiFITAN   '   t',<>   q+{)f   bm  <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ' % 2 o -9'<'g BA'--<64 t> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ 0 n erv;aR omb xts rd FDfs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44
DI    A    v<    iEf   RuRMA   '  |t  I  >,  ,?- j / X 6 0 0 - ; - ' _ Exlrnx of Den>lv Selr .e 444                                                 "'4'           14                     4
FX,r,   (L  r   >ASeg.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4






A~~~~~~~~
. XJ5. . , .  t W                   sb~~~~~~~~~~ALAJO TREATMENT RES 
-(V              2                                   :<                                                                         :'            X 
T WORKS ~  ~     POEC  ITLNSABV  50MDAMTR
C   ~ ~~-2,~~~ThI~~~-~~U   ,hpa
/TRRuHUVAN /   ot
UNIVE> C /\RSITY== Z  
C  IAIHMAA                                                                                                               *    EXISTING SERVICE RRERVLP1 E
TEATMENTz WORKSX                                                                                      t5-a                          \2
RES,A                                                                                                                                 0    XI NV S   SOURCES
APPEDX;MATE cEKeEEE llNe   l  t   /    \_9    _  | [   <    5<   i(t   ?!i  Y i  L                  _   PROJECT PIPELINESIAbOVE ISDMM PDlAMErAE0R1ISEM. DAMETER
<. - C H I N A l d : tK CI t 2 r 8 X PROJECT SE VCE RESERWIR~~~~~~~~~~~~PREC  ERVCE ESEVOI
. I N DI A  '     BURMA                                               N EPA L                                                                 RVILS-UP AREAS                 |
2'\  _'   '\1J\Tf   WATER  SUPPlY  AND   SEWERAGE   PROJECT                                -_---INTERNATIONAISL
. I                                       KATHMANDU  WATER SUPPLY                                              ,          ,,-           G                2        lo
s,4  \    j  EXISTING  AND  PROPOSED   DISTRIBUTION   SYSTEM                         'IO'X ETENGRNGS O
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITU As SRLNKA,                                                                           J






r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
K  KTAA0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>    /~~~~~~4.04~~~~~~~N                0K>  ~~~~~~~~~ ~(TIBET)
-1X                       >0S                                                       K0gE                                                        ATHOMANDU     V"-                                        EV.~
000                                                                                                                                       ( 00  < ~La. ond
(P'~~~~~-46' K.,'0.
<10h,'      K                      000         -lehu                                                              S0 ~                  \          S                  RI IANKA                                                                                          O0
_x                                                                                         00                              1-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -0                                     I         ,      
-,500   T,                                           CAIAI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                        SaId          /KReN
B6me   'Chc,p.~~~~~~~~~~~~~n                                                ,ABorpga  A4      ' 'I
A41 ~ ~ ~ ~  ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       . 
- ------ --                                                                                                                                             NEPAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(hd
V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C RIOPOSED EL
EITNINAEAND M INS.
'~~~~~~  K  e5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0             1  ~~~~~~~~~~~~   0.                                                                                                  M~~~~~~~,w  ILLAES  AN ETLMET
/N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C~~~~~~~~~---  FOOTNEPAL
R~~~~~~~p~~~~~~~sho~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                        POKHARA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Thul, ~ ~      ~      ~       ndco mangorpow                                                                                                            AE         UPL         N        E ER G             R JC






NEPAL                                                                                                                                      F .
WATER SIJPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT                                                                                                                     ,'
KATHIMANDU   SEWERAGE                                           j                   i
EXISTING AND PROPOSED SEWERAGE SYSTEM                                                                f-
'E -isig  MenSwr
Propisp d S-e-rs/20-mm  aorerer ond abd-  e           -
Pop-s-d Pumping Mains
-      Open  Sewers
Proposed Pumpng Station - '
rE,WAQiiE TREATMENT PLANT5S
Prun  Eapeo-o
Bo.n Ip Asses
-- nrennaotiontl Boundaries                      2>       % u _           7   -a         i                                ;      =     -=0 f;                   *j;-*        
t; 0 , 4 mA!t                                                Mt(N    C)                                  a  Z0        ->;
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
C             '/   i   h' A                                                                    '           ::         
,Ara4m                          -       '         a- '^TeS                                                    t  |          7  b .  r   , , ',n ....... e. a<, . . , ......... ^, , | . : 1 V ,) K  I  L-   o  JO-Te
A.Q  I  fT                      F  |                                                     : E L
7~~~~ a



