                                                      CONFORMED COPY




                                                 GRANT NUMBER H585-0-HT




              Financing Agreement

(Second Additional Financing for the Community Driven Development Project)



                                 between



                          REPUBLIC OF HAITI


                                   and


          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                           Dated June 10, 2010
                                                        GRANT NUMBER H585-0-HT


                             FINANCING AGREEMENT

        Agreement dated June 10, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF HAITI
(“Recipient”)    and     INTERNATIONAL           DEVELOPMENT           ASSOCIATION
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing a second additional financing for activities
related to the Original Project. The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as
follows:

            ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to nine
        million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,900,000)
        (“Financing” or “Second Additional Financing”) to assist in financing the project
        described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
        Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.

2.05.   The Payment Currency is the Dollar.
                             ARTICLE III — PROJECT

3.01.   The Recipient declares its further commitment to the objectives of the Project.
        To this end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to continue to be carried out by
        BMPAD in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General
        Conditions.

3.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
        shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

              ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

        (a)     BMPAD shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the
                Third Subsidiary Agreement.

        (b)     BMPAD Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
                repealed or waived, so as to affect materially and adversely, in the
                opinion of the Association, the ability of BMPAD to perform any of its
                obligations under the Third Subsidiary Agreement.

        (c)     Any party thereto shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
                under a Service Agreement or a Community Grant Agreement, which in
                the opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely impact the
                achievement of the Project’s objectives.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that, the Third
        Subsidiary Agreement shall have been duly signed by the Recipient and BMPAD
        and shall be legally binding upon the Recipient and BMPAD in accordance with
        its terms.

5.02.   Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
        Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
        case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Association’s approval of the
        Second Additional Financing which expires on November 27, 2011.



                                            2
5.03.   For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
        obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for
        payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this
        Agreement.

                 ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

        Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances
        Palais des Ministères
        Rue Oswald Durand 104
        Port-au-Prince
        Republic of Haiti

        Facsimile: (+509) 229 917 32

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

        International Development Association
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable:                  Telex:                  Facsimile:

        INDEVAS                 248423 (MCI)            1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.




                                           3
AGREED at Port-au-Prince, Haiti, as of the day and year first above written.


                REPUBLIC OF HAITI


                By /s/ Ronald Baudin

                                                      Authorized Representative


                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                By /s/ Yvonne M. Tsikata

                                                      Authorized Representative




                                   4
                                     SCHEDULE 1

                                  Project Description

         The Project consists entirely of the Original Project, which maintains as its
objectives to assist the Recipient in implementing the direct transfer of public resources
to local CBOs in poor rural and peri-urban communities in order to improve: (i) their
access to basic social and economic infrastructure and support income-generating
activities by financing small-scale investments proposed, implemented and managed by
said community organizations; and (ii) community governance and to build social capital
of communities through an increase in citizen participation and transparency in open
decision-making processes.

      The Project consists of all the parts previously set forth in the Original Grant
Agreement.




                                            5
                                           SCHEDULE 2

                                       Project Execution

Section I.      Implementation Arrangements

A.      Institutional Arrangements.

        The Recipient shall maintain all the institutional arrangements set forth in the
        Original Project, as further described in the Operational Manual.

B.      Subsidiary Agreement

1.      To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by BMPAD, the Recipient shall make
        the proceeds of the Second Additional Financing available to BMPAD under a
        subsidiary agreement between the Recipient and BMPAD, under terms and
        conditions approved by the Association (“Third Subsidiary Agreement”).

2.      The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
        Third Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
        Recipient and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Third
        Additional Financing. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
        Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive, terminate or fail to enforce
        the Third Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.

C.      Implementation Documents

1.      The Recipient shall cause BMPAD to continue to carry out the Project in
        accordance with the Operational Manual, including the Environmental
        Management Framework and the Procurement Plan.

2.      In the event that any provision of the Operational Manual, the Environmental
        Management Framework and/or the Procurement Plan shall conflict with any
        provision under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

3.      The Operational Manual may only be amended from time to time in consultation
        with, and after approval of, the Association.

D.      Other Implementation Arrangements

1.      The Recipient shall continue to:

        (i)     cause BMPAD to enter into service agreements (each a “Service
                Agreement”), with MDODs (selected on the basis of eligibility criteria
                detailed in the Operational Manual) under terms and conditions
                acceptable to the Association, which agreements shall provide for, inter


                                             6
             alia, transferring funds of Category (1) to such MDODs; and the
             obligation of the relevant MDOD to, upon approval of a given
             Community Subproject, enter into a community grant agreement (the
             “Community Grant Agreement”) with the pertinent Beneficiary
             Community on the basis of the standard community grant agreement
             attached to the Operational Manual, each for the provision of a
             Community Grant to finance said Community Subproject selected on the
             basis of eligibility criteria detailed in the Operational Manual, to be
             carried out by or for the benefit of said Beneficiary Community, selected
             on the basis of eligibility criteria detailed in the Operational Manual; and

     (ii)    cause the Service Agreements to be maintained and implemented, in a
             manner satisfactory to the Association, for the further carrying out of the
             Project under this Agreement.

2.   The Recipient shall cause the BMPAD to exercise its rights and carry out its
     obligations under the Service Agreements, in such manner as to protect the
     interests of the Recipient and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
     the Second Additional Financing. Except as the Association shall otherwise
     agree, the Recipient shall cause BMPAD not to assign, amend, abrogate, waive,
     terminate or fail to enforce the Service Agreements or any of their provisions.

E.   Community Sub-projects

     The Recipient shall cause BMPAD to maintain all the arrangements of the
     Original Project for the preparation, appraisal, selection, approval,
     implementation, management, technical auditing and procurement review,
     financial auditing, reporting, evaluation and monitoring of Community
     Subprojects, including the provision of technical advisory services, the
     acquisition of goods and the carrying out of works in relation thereto and the
     modalities of the transfer of funds to Beneficiary Communities under relevant
     Community Grant Agreements to enable them to carry out their Community
     Subprojects, all in accordance with the rules, criteria, conditions, directives and
     guidelines set forth in the Operational Manual.

F.   Anti-Corruption

     The Recipient shall cause BMPAD to ensure for itself and for the MDODs,
     CADECs and Beneficiary Communities that the Project is carried out in
     accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.




                                         7
G.      Safeguards

1.      The Recipient shall cause BMPAD to ensure for itself and for the MDODs,
        CADECs and Beneficiary Communities, that the Project is carried out in
        accordance with the Environmental Management Framework.

2.      The Environmental Management Framework may be updated from time to time
        in prior consultation and agreement with the Association

Section II.     Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports

1.      The Recipient shall maintain the same arrangements for Project monitoring,
        reporting and evaluation, including the report on the execution of the Project, as
        are set forth in the Original Grant Agreement.

2.      The performance indicators under which the progress of the Project shall be
        monitored and evaluated shall be maintained for purposes of the Second
        Additional Financing as set forth in the Operational Manual.

B.      Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

1.      The Recipient shall cause to be maintained in BMPAD, MDODs, CADEC and
        Beneficiary Communities, a financial management system in accordance with the
        provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions.

2.      The Recipient shall further cause to be maintained all the arrangements for
        financial management, financial reports and audits of Project execution as are set
        forth in the Original Grant Agreement.

3.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Recipient shall, for purposes of the Second
        Additional Financing, prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty
        five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial
        reports for the Project, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to
        the Association.

Section III.    Procurement

A.      General

1.      Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be
        financed out of the proceeds of the Second Additional Financing shall be
        procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I
        of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.



                                             8
2.   Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
     be financed out of the proceeds of the Second Additional Financing shall be
     procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I
     and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

3.   Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
     particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
     particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
     Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

B.   Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works

1.   International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
     2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
     of International Competitive Bidding.

2.   Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table
     specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive
     Bidding, which may be used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall
     specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:

      Procurement Method
         (a) National Competitive Bidding
         (b) Shopping
         (c) Direct Contracting
         (d) Community Participation in accordance with procedures set forth in the
             Operational Manual


C.   Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

1.   Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
     2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
     basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

2.   Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
     specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection,
     which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
     the circumstances under which such methods may be used.




                                         9
        Procurement Method
           (a) Quality Based Selection
           (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget
           (c) Least Cost Selection
           (d) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
           (e) Single Source Selection
           (f) Selection of Individual Consultants


D.     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions

       The Procurement Plan, satisfactory to the Association, shall set forth those
       contracts which shall be subject to the Association’s Prior Review. All other
       contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.


Section IV.    Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing

A.     General

1.     The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Second Additional Financing in
       accordance with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this
       Section, and such additional instructions as the Association shall specify by
       notice to the Recipient (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for
       Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as
       made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance
       Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2.     The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
       financed out of the proceeds of the Second Additional Financing (“Category”),
       the allocations of the amounts of the Second Additional Financing to each
       Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
       Expenditures in each Category:




                                          10
                                          Amount of the           Percentage of Expenditures
                                       Financing Allocated              to be Financed
        Category                       (expressed in SDR)            (inclusive of Taxes)

     (1) Community Grants                    4,420,000             100% of amounts disbursed
                                                                         by Recipient

     (2) Goods                                        0                      100%

     (3) Consultant services,
         Training and audits:

        (a) Service Agreements               3,350,000                       100%

        (b) other, including audits          1,730,000

     (4) Operating Costs                        150,000                      100%

     (5) Unallocated                            250,000

     TOTAL AMOUNT                            9,900,000


B.        Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1.        Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
          made:

          (a)      for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
                   withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed one million five
                   hundred thousand Dollars ($1,500,000) equivalent may be made for
                   payments made prior to this date but on or after January 12, 2010, for
                   Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) and (3); and

          (b)      under Category (1) unless a Community Grant Agreement for the
                   implementation of the relevant Community Subproject, including
                   whenever applicable, environmental mitigations measures in respect
                   thereof, shall have been entered into between the relevant Beneficiary
                   Community and an MDOD, all in accordance with the procedures, terms
                   and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual, as shall be evidenced
                   by the first three such signed Community Grant Agreements furnished to
                   the Association for its review.

2.        The Closing Date is June 30, 2013.


                                               11
                                      APPENDIX

Section I.      Definitions

1.      “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
        Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
        Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006.

2.      “Beneficiary Community” means a CBO in the territory of the Recipient,
        including, inter alia, special interest groups of women and youth, which have
        been determined eligible to receive proceeds of the Second Additional Financing
        for the implementation of a Community Subproject.

3.      “BMPAD” means Bureau de Monétisation des Programmes d’ Aide au
        Développement, an entity of the Recipient established by law dated December
        27, 2007, for the administration of foreign aid and the management of projects
        financed through it, and published in the Recipient’s official gazette “ Le
        Moniteur” on January 04, 2008.

4.      “BMPAD Legislation” means the law establishing BMPAD, dated December 27,
        2007, as the same has been amended to the date of this Agreement.

5.      “CADEC” means a Conseil d’Appui au Développement Communautaire, a
        community development council established with membership drawn up
        primarily from CBO representatives and including, inter alia, representatives of
        the civil society, NGOs and local government, which has succeeded COPRODEP
        in its responsibility of pre-approving Community Subprojects under the Project.

6.      “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
        this Agreement.

7.      “CBO” means Community-based Organization established and operating
        pursuant to the laws of the Recipient and which is made responsible under the
        Project for the development and implementation of a Community Subproject (as
        hereinafter defined) to be financed utilizing the proceeds of the Second
        Additional Financing.

8.      “Community Grant” means, with respect to Category (1), payments made under
        the Second Additional Financing in respect of a grant extended or proposed to be
        extended to a Beneficiary Community for the carrying out of a Community
        Subproject under the Project.

9.      “Community Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements entered into
        between a Beneficiary Community and a MDOD (as hereafter defined) for the




                                           12
      implementation of a Community Subproject, and referred to in Section I.D.1 of
      Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

10.   “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
      Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and
      revised in October 2006.

11.   “Environmental Management Framework” means the environmental
      management framework of the Project dated May 17, 2005, as amended/updated
      for purposes of the Second Additional Financing, in a manner satisfactory to the
      Association, and referred to in Section I.G.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

12.   “First Additional Financing” means the grant made by the Association to the
      Recipient in an amount equivalent to five million four hundred thousand Special
      Drawing Rights (SDR 5,400,000) pursuant to the terms of the First Additional
      Financing Agreement entered into between the Recipient and the Association
      dated February 12, 2009 (Grant number H445-0-HT) for the purpose of
      providing additional financing for the Original Project.

13.   “General Conditions” means the “International Development Association
      General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
      through October 15, 2006) , with the modifications set forth in Section II of this
      Appendix.

14.   “MDOD” means Maître d’Ouvrage Délégué, a service providing entity or
      individual, a non-governmental organization or any private institution contracted
      under the Project to appraise Community Subprojects and provide technical
      assistance in the course of their implementation by Beneficiary Communities.

15.   “Operating Costs” means in respect of Category (4), the incremental expenses
      incurred on account of Project implementation, including office equipment and
      supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs,
      office administration costs, utilities, travel, per diem and supervision costs and
      salaries of locally contracted employees.

16.   “Operational Manual” means the operational manual for the Project dated June
      13, 2005, as amended/updated for purposes of both the First Additional
      Financing and the Second Additional Financing, and referred to in Section I.C.1
      of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

17.   “Original Grant Agreement” means the development grant agreement for a
      Community Driven Development Project between the Recipient and the
      Association, dated September 09, 2005, as amended to the date of this
      Agreement (IDA Grant No. H1810-HA).




                                         13
18.     “Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Grant Agreement.

19.     “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
        Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
        October, 2006.

20.     “Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated June 13,
        2005 and revised for purposes of both the First Additional Financing and the
        Second Additional Financing and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the
        Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the
        same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said
        paragraphs.

21.     “Service Agreement” means any of the agreements between the Recipient and a
        selected MDOD under the Project, as further referred to in Section I.D.1 of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

22.     “Third Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.1
        of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time
        with the agreement of the Association.

23.     “Training” means in respect of Category (3): (a) reasonable travel, room, board
        and per diem expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with
        their training and by non-consultant training facilitators; (b) course fees; (c)
        training facility rentals; and (d) training material preparation, acquisition,
        reproduction and distribution expenses.



Section II.     Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the Association,
dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:

1.      Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:

        “Section 2.07. Refinancing Preparation Advance

                If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the
        proceeds of the Financing of an advance made by the Association or the Bank
        (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient,
        withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount
        required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the
        date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and
        unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay


                                            14
     the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall
     cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.”

2.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

            The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation
            Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows:

            “‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing
            Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.”




                                       15
