E-255
VOL. 6
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS PROJECT IV
IN HUBEI PROVMCE
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
AND ACTION PLAN SUMMARY
I-;..,
SCANNED FILE COPY--
FluIEC./aspeun'mbof E LIVCt GRMf ESW ColRg A&r Proc
I O- PC_. 4milg
HIUBEI PROVINCIAL COMMUNICAT[ONS DEPARTMENT
Feb. 19 Wuhan China



CONTENM
A.    BACKGROUND ............................................ ......... (1)
B. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT     .................... (3)
C. BASELINE ENVIRONMENTAL DESCRIPTION    ................... (4)
D. POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES ........ (11)
E. ALTERNATIVE SCHEES ............................................ (17)
F. INVESTMENT FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECrION    .    ............... (18)
G. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ......... (19)
a. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING .................................... (19)
b. INSrITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENT .................................. (20)
H. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION        ......................... (22)
1. CONCLUSION           .............................. (24)
Appendix I. The EIA Standards .    . ................................... (25)
Appendix I. The Key Elements of the EAP for the National Highway
Project IV and the Other Roads in Hubei Province ...... (28)
Appendix Map 1-2
Sketch Map of the Route Alignment of National Highway
Project IV in Hubei Province and the Environmental
Monitoring Spots
Appendix Map 3
Sketch Map of Alignment and Environmental Monitoring Spots
for Tongshan-Chongyang-Puqi Highway of National Highway
Project IV in Hubei Province
Appendix Map 4
Sketch Map of Alignment and Environmental Monitoring Spots
for Dawu^Hong'an Highway of National Highway Project IV
in Hubei Province



A. BACKGROUND
1.    The National Highways Project IV consists of the following three
parts:
(1) The Hubei National Highways Project IV Expressway- Jing- Zhu
National Trunk Line in the southern part of Hubei and its linking roads;
(2) The other road of the National Highways Project IV- Class  I
Tongshang-Chongyang-Puqi Highway;
(3) The other road of the National Highways Project IV- Class  I
Dawu-Hong'an Highway.
The EIA of the above mentioned three roads projects were conducted
by Xi'an Highway Transportation Universyty. In June, 1994, the outline
of the EIA for Hubei National Highways Project IV and its linking roads
was carried out by Xi'an Highway Transportation  University,   and  in
July in the same year, they were reviewed and approved by the National
Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA). In Octobe, 1996, the EIA and
EAP for Hubei National Highways Project l Expressway ( Xianning Scheme
I was accepted as the recommended alignment ) were worked out and
submitted to the World Bank. The EIA and EAP were  reviewed    by  the
experts from the World Bank during the preparation mission in Nov.
1997 and discussed with Hubei Privincial Communications Department,
Hubei World Bank Project Office, Hubei Provincial High- class Highway
Administrative Bureau, Hubei Provincial Communication Planning and
Design Institute. To meet the requirementnts of the World  Bank,   the
EIA and EAP of the Hubei National Highways Project IV Expressway (
Xianning Scheme I as the recommented scheme ) and its linking roads
and the other highways of the Hubei Natinal Highways Project IV ( class
I Tongshan-Chongyang-Puqi Highway and class I Dawu-Hong'an Highway)
of total six documents were completed and submitted to the World Bank
in Mar.1998. In July 1998, these documents were revised according to
the comments of the World Bank expert and submitted to the World Bank.
In Feb. of 1999, according to the requirements of the World Bank in
the November 1998 and January 1999 Aide Memoire on  Environment,   the
edition of EIA and EAP are completed based on the former ones.       THe
EIAs of National Highway Project IV in Hubeu Province in Chinese
version have been approved by the State Enyironmental Protection
Agency in Sep. 1998.
2.   The process of environmental review Involved inputs from  various
_.          _~~~~~~~~~~



1,   EsGEND            rA              >1                       Figure   LOCATION OF THE NATIONAL HIGHWAY I PROJECT IN HUBEI
,ov,, ,tal s                                     -                                PROVINCE OF THE BEIJING-2MUEAI NATIONAL TRUNK HIGHWAY
me[s city
P!efeCtwral City   o                                                                                            (1:1750000)
Coit 0rfcCt           3-i                  't         t   
Township                   _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _
Railway     _________   The Location of Hubei Province                   d .                             Henan Province
1 12  Hi-way    .                                 <   _  |                        9          fj8 . 1                                     |National  fih buy   Project  m .'g  iA I Pre vinc
Provincial
Hubei Province
V                             -                     --- >
I  e                                                              *              sA                                                      X      t,,l.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NainlHgwyPoetIV in Ibe



institutions in Hubei Province, including Hubei Environment Protection
Bureau, Environment Protection Bureau of Xianning Prefecture and
Environment  Protection Bureau  of  Xiaogang Prefecture   and   the
environmental monitoring stations and the meteorological bureaus of the
two prefetures. The affected groups and NGOs along the the highways,
and the people, subject to resettlement and land acquisition in
particular, have been consulted.
3.   The policy and administrative  requirements  for  environmental
assessment of development projects in China were followed during
preparation and evaluation of the EIA, as well as the World Bank's 00 4.
01 on the Environmental Assessment. The criteria of EIA for Hubei
National Highways Project TV  are  listed  in Annex  I.  The  major
regulations to follow are as follws:
Environmental Protection Act of the PRC. December 26,1989;
Atmospheric Pollution Control Act of the PRC. May, 1996;
Land Management Act.June 25,1986;
Environmental Noise Control Regulations of the PRC. September,1989;
Management Guidelines on Environmental Protection of Construction
Project, Number 003 (86), issued by the National Environmental
Protection Agency (NEPA). March 26, 1986;
Water Act of the PRC. Junuary 21, 1988;
Water and Soil Conservation Act of the PRC. June 29,1991;
River Channel Management Regulations of the PRC. June 10, 1986;
Detailed Implementation on Environmental Protection of
Construction  Project,   Number  002  ( 87) ,  Hubei  Province
Environmental Protection Bureau;
Pollution Control Guidelines for Drinking  Water  Sources,   Number
201 (89) , Hubei Province Environmental Protection Bureau;
Safety Management Regulations for Dangerous Chemicals.   February,
1987
Temporary Provisions for Report of Environmental Pollution and
2



Destructive Accidends. September 10, 1987;
Management Guidelines on Environmental Protection of Communication
Project, issued by the minister of the MOC (89),
Management Guidelines on Environmental Protection  of  Construction
Project in Hubei Province, Number 113 (1993) Er Huan Guan, Oct.
(1993);
Completion Acceptance Guidelines on Environmental Protection of
Construction Project in Hubei Province, Number 113 (1993),Oct.1993.
4.   The Scope and Criteria for the EIA are presented as below:
(a) Assessment Scope
The assessment of ecologcal environment covers 500 m on both sides
of the proposed road, while that of water environment covers 1000 m on
both sides that can accept the drainage from the  highways.   And  the
scope of noise and cultural heritage covers areas within 200 m on both
sides of the planned road with some extent at sensitive spots.
(b) The following standards are applied as the criteria for the EIA:
(1) Noise: Class 4 Noise Standards (Noise Standards in Urban
Areas)for residential areas, Class 1 Noise Standards for schools and
hospitals GB 3096-93. See Annex Table 1-1.
(2) Ambient air: Class 2 air quality standards GB 3095- 1996.
See Annex Table 1-2.
(3) Water quality: Class 3 surfase water quality standards GB
3095-1996. See Annex Table 1-3.For sewage drainage at highway survice
areas and toll stations "Waste Water Discharge General Standards"
(GB8978-1996) and "Farmland Irrigation Water Sdandards( GB 508- 92)
are applied respectively. See Annex Tables 1-4 and 1-5.
(4) Ecological environment: Class 2 Soil Standards (GB 15618-1995)
and Food Lead Content Limit Standards (GB14935-940. See Annex Tables 1
-6 and 1-7.
(c) Considering the project features and construction cycle,   the
base years for the EIA were decided to be 1999, 9 to 2003, 2
(construction phase), 2002 for initial stage prediction, 2012 for mid
-term prediction and 2022 for long-term prediction.
B. BREEF DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECU
3



5. 'he Hubei Section of the National Highways Project TV includes:
(a) Hubei National Highways Project IV Expressway- The southern
section of Jing-Zhu National Trunk Highway in Hubei covers 109.815 km
with a design speed of 120 km per hour.                      X
(b) Four linking roads of Hubei National Highways Project IV are:
Maanshan Linking Road with a length of 1.7 km, Zhanggong Linking Road
with a length of 9.5 km, Gantang Linking Road with a length of 7.1 km
and last Quankou Linking Road with a length of  9. 4  km.   The  total
mileage of the four is 21.55 k with design speed of 80 km per hour.
(c) The other roads of Hubei National Highways Project rv --Class
I Road Tongshan-Chongyang-Puqi covering a distance of 95.245 km with a
design speed of 80 or 40 km per hour.
(d) The other roads of Hubei National Highways Project IV- Class
I Road Dawu-Hong'an with a total length of 68.959 km and a design of
80 or 40 km per hour.
*  C. BASELINE ENVIMONMENTAL DESCRIPTION
6. Terrain and Topography
(a) Hubei National Highways Project TV Expressway- The southern
section of Jing-Zhu National Trunk Line in Hubei and its linking roads
are located on the south bank of the middle reaches of the River
Yangzts in the southern part of Hubei. The areas through which the
proposed highway passes are characterized by low hills and rolling
areas on the edge of the Hanjiang Plain. The general terrain rises fron
northwest to southwest. The western part, located on the edge of the
Jianghan Plain , is of alluvial lake topography with an attitude of
below 50 m and level land with plenty of lakes. While the middle part
is a rise region on the plain with an attitude of less than 200 m.
Among the  mountains  there  are  alluvial  stream  flat  lands.   The
southeastern part belongs to the north slope of Fumu Montains belonging
to middle-low mountainous topography with faulty structural basins
between valleys.
(b) The other road namely Tongshan-Chongyang- Puqi of the Hubei
National Highways Project IV lies in the southern part of Hubei
Province. The three counties/cities of Tongshan, Chongyang and Puqi
are situated in the low hilly areas. Among the mountains are located
hills and basins alternately. Between valleys there are nets of rivers
and streams which meet at Fushui and Lushui from south, west and north
and then fall into the River of Yangtze.
(c) The other road namely Class I Dawu-Hong'an Road of the Hubei
National Highways Project IV lies in the northern part of Hubei
Province. Dawu County's topography consists of low mountains, rolling
hills and highlands basically. The terrain of Hong'an, however, rises
from north to south, characterized by hills.
4



7.    Climate
(a) The project area belongs to tropical continental monsoon wet
climate of the  middle-low latitude.   It  has  clearly- divided  four
seasons with long frost-free periods and plenty  sunshine.   The  mean
annual temperature of the project-located area is 15-15.1 'C. The frost
-free period of the year is 230-260 days. There are plenty of rain in
the study area with an annual precipitation of 1100- 1450 mm focused
mainly in April-October which makes up 84-88% of the whole rainfall
often leading to floods. The rainfall tends increasing from the north
to the south. At Jiangxia, Xianning and Puqi north wind, southeast wind
and northeast wind prevail respctively with a frequency of leading wind
directions of 11%, 10% and 10% individually.
(b) The other road of the Hubei National Highways Project IV, i.e.
Tongshan-Chongyang-Puqi Highway is located on the south bank of the
middle reaches of the Yangtze River.It belongs to the continental sub
-tropical monsoon wet climate with four clearly-divided seasons and a
long frost-free period and plenty of water resources. The area through
which the alignment passes has an annual average temperature of 16.1-16.
3 'C. Frost-free period is 141 days. The average annual rainfall is 1100
-1563 mm concentrated mainly in April-October accounting for 84-88% of
the whole year's rainfall which causes floods sometimes. Tongshan
County is located between mountains in both south and north. The
leading wind direction is east-west, while in Chongyang County the
prevailing wind direction is north
(c) The other road of the Hubei National Highways Project TV, i.e.
Dawu-Hong'an Claas X Highway is located at middle- low attitude
belonging to sub-tropical continental monsoon climate. In the winter,
the weather is affected by cold air mass, and in the  summer,   it  is
controlled by SE and SW monsoon. It is cold and dry in the winter and
hot and wet in the summer. The climate is characterized by clearly
-divided four seasons, long frost-free period, plentiful sunshine and
heat and water resources. The average frost-free period is 240 days,
while the rainfall is 1021-1154 mm with an average annual temperature
of 15.7 'C. In Dawu County the prevailing wind direction is north (
wind direction NNE with a frequency of 25%). The climate of Hong'an
County is similar to that of Dawu. The wind direction is mainly N year
round (wind direction N with a frequency of 24%).
8.   Hydrology
The areas where there is the Hubei National Highways Project IV
5



(a)-The area of the expressway of the Hubei National Highways
Project TV has developed surface water resulted from lots of rivers and
lakes. ihe rivers and lakes there are: Ganhe, Dingsihe, Lushuihe, Luhu
Futouhu and Xilianghu with plenty of surface run-off and Athrough flow.
The Gan River originates on the slope of Damu Mountain in Tongshan
County. It flows into Futou Lake via Paishansi, Baishaqiao,   Wenquan,
Rongan, Zitang and Yaozu. The total length of the river is 73.6 km with
an average flow of 16.6 m3 /s. The minimum average flow is in January
being only 5.1 elss, while the maximum flow is in June being 352 m3/s.
The Jinshui River originates in the Damu Mountains of Tongshan
County. It flows into the Yangtze River from southeast to northwest via
Tongshan, Xianning, three townships of Jingxia County. The total length
of the river is 144 km with an area of 2.359 km  of  basin.   It  also
accepts the water from Xiliang Lake and Futou Lake. The width of the
river is 30-60 m with a depth of 1.5 m. The flow varies greately with
a maximum one of 370 m3/s during flood, the annual average flow is 56
1 mW/s.
The Tingsi River flows through west of Xianning City,  originating
on the south slope of Banshen Hills.   It  flows  through  Niejiagang,
Chiganggang,Xiwangang, and it comes into the Xiling  Lake  at  Junshan
Village of Gantang Tonwship. It covers a length of 27.6 km , and  the
average depth of the river is 0.5 m with a average flow of 2 m3/s.
Both The Xiliang Lake and Futou Lake are of natural and fresh
water lakes connected to the Changjiang River. Originally,    the  two
lakes used to be one water body. Owing to the drop of the water level,
Gantang Land appeared, which divided these two lakes called Futou
Lake and Xiliang Lake. The rain bearing area of Futou Lake is 1,238 km'
with a normal water area of 324,000 mu and a mean depth of 4 meters.
The width from east to west is 9 km and the length from south to north
is 18 km. The highest water level is 23.9 m and the lowest one is 19.11
m. The rain bearing area of Xiliang Lake is 827 km2. The water area
during the normal water level (22.5m) is 120,000 mu with a relevant
capacity of 3.12 hundred million m3.   The average depth is 4 meters.
(b) The other road of the Hubei Natinal Highways Project IV i.e.
Tongshan-Chongyan-Puqi class I highway is located in the area where
there are plenty of developed surface water systems. The two related
river systems involved in the construction are Fushui and Lushui rivers.
The main Fushui River starts on the north slope of Sanjiejiang
Mountain running into the Yangtze River through Tongshan and Yangxin
Counties with upper reaches going through Xiapu.The total length is
71 km  with a valley of 571 km2 .  The  Tongshan  River  is  a  major
tributary of the Fushui River,   originating  on  the  east. slope  of
Dongyanf Mountain and it flows from east to west running into the
6



Fushui River via Nanlin,   Shilong,   Gangban,   Dalu,   Tongyang  and
Tangjiadi etc. The length of the river is 35.1 km with a basin of 264
JM2.
The Lushui River rises on the north slope of Mufu MoOntain on the
border between Hubei, Hunan and Jiangxi Provinces. It flo'ws into the
Yangtze River at Hongniao via Tongcheng, Chongyang,   Puqi  and  Jiayu
Counties and/or Cities. The total length is 208 km with a maximum rate
of flow of 2,900 m8/s and a minimum rate of only 0.11 m8/s.
(c) The surface water regimes of the other road , namely Dawu
-Hong'an class I highway consists of the Huanshui River, Sheshui River
and Daoshui River with all belonging to the Yangtze River System. The
rivers that may be affected by the alignment are the Sheshui River and
Huanshui tributary.
The Huanshui River rises in the Guangtou Mountain of Dawu County
passing throuth the whole Dawu County, Xiaochang and Xiaonan to flow
into the Pu River at Wuolongtan of Xiaogan and then into the Yangtze
River. The running distance of Huanshui River is 133 km with a valley
of 3,456 km2. The width of the river body is 159-552 m and the width of
the water bodies 129.551 m. The max. depth of the water 7.3 m and the
max. speed is 3.57 m/s.
The Shieshui River rises on the south slope of Dabie Mountain,
namely the south slope of Sanjiao Mount on the border between Hubei
and Henan. It runs from north to south to meet the Yangtze River via
Shizichong Reservoir, Liuwangcheng and Zoujiadian. The total.length of
the Sheshui River is 127.6 km with a basin of 2,174.5 km2.
The Daoshui River rises on the south slope of Dabie Mountains the
upper reaches of which are made up of  many  tributaries.   It  passes
through Xin County and Hong'an County of Henan Province, and it runs
into the Yangtze River at Xinzhou County. The total length covers 163.3
km with a valley of 1,793 km2.
9.    Socio-economic Situation
(a) The  Hubei  National  Highways  Project  TV  Expressway  is
situated in the southern Hubei. The areas directly affected by the
planned alignment are Jiangxia District of Wuhan (2, 008. 98 km 2 ) ,
Xianning City (1,501.6 km2) and Puqi City (1,723 km2). The whole area
affected is provided with fairly good transportation means,   and  the
economical level is in the middle in Hubei Province. The population in
1996 in Jiangxia District, Xiannning City and Puqi City was 6. 346
million, 5.245 million and 5.013 million respectively.   The  GNP  per
capita in these areas was 4,727 yuan, 4, 520 yuan and 6, 252 yuan
7



individuaily. Education and health care can meet needs of the local
people.
(b) Tongshan-Chongyang-Puqi Class I  Highway is located  in  the
southeastern Hubei. The areas affected by the proposed alignment are
Tongshan County (2,680 kIm2), Chongyang County (1,968 km.)  and  Puqi
City (1,723 km2). The traffic in these areas is not convenient leading
to backward economy. The population in Tongshan and Chngyang was 4,109
million and 4,545 million respectively. The GNP per capita was 2, 257
yuan and 3,066 yuan respectively.
(c) Dawu-Hong'an Class I Highway is located in northeastern
Hubei.The areas directly affected are Dawu County (1,985.71 km2) and
Hong'an County (1, 769  km 2 ) .   These  areas  have  sufferred  fTom
incovenient traffic for ages constraining the economic development. As
a result, they remain underdeveloped. The population here was 5, 700
million and 6,421 million in 1996, and the GNP per person was 2, 023
yuan and 2,111 yuan respectively.
10. Ecological Setting
(a) The vegetation along the expressway of the project includes
sub-tropical ever-green acerose-leaved forests with masson pines, China
firs and cypresses being the leading ones. The sub- tropical acerose
-leaved and deciduous-leaved mixed forests are found with sanders and
poplars being the leading ones. The artificial vegetation includes cash
crops such as tea trees , tea- oil  trees  and  mulberry  trees,   and
different kinds of bamboo. The main grain crops are rice, wheat, rape
and beans.The study area in Jianxia and urban distict of Xiannning is
of level areas with many lakes. There are less trees ,  but  lots  of
good quality farmland and ponds with a forest coverage of 22.1%-27.6%.
The last section in Xianning and the section in Puqi is characterized
by hills with a forest coverage of 27.6-36.2% which is above that in
plains.
(b) Tongshan-Chongyang- Puqi Class I Highway-located area enjoys a
better vegetation. The natural vegetation includes masson pines, China
firs, cypress and bamboo. Artificial vegetation includes cash crops (
tea oil trees, mulberry, cotton, and fruit trees ) and grain crops (
rice,wheat, corn, rape, bean and peanut) .  The  forest  coverage  in
Tongshan,Chongyang and Puqi is 55%, 59.4% and 32.6% respectively.
(c) Dawu-Hong'an Class I Highway's section enjoys a better vegetation
with a natural vegetation including masson pines, China firs,cypresses
and bamboo. The artificial vegetation includes cash crops such as tea
8



-oil trees and mulberry, and the main grain crops are rice, wheat and
rape. The forest coverage in Dawu County 32.2% and that in Hong'an 33
.7X.
11.   Wild Animals
(a) The geographica! conditions along the expressway is quite
good with mild climate favourable to be habitats for wild animals. In
early times there used to be different kinds of wild animals. However,
tigers and leopards are already extinct because of desrtuction of
vegetation and frequent hunting. Some other wild animals such as
otters skunks and pangolins are very rare. There is abundance of fish
such as carps of various kinds and ricefield eels.   No  rare  animals
have been found along the alignment.
(b) The geographical conditions along Tongshan- Chongyang- Puqi
Class I Highway is good enough for wild animals to live in and
reproduce. The wild animals found here are boars,  foxes,   hares  and
goats. The proposed alignment will not pass through the natural
reserves of provincial or national level. No rare animals have been
found near the section.
(c) The geographical conditions along Dawu- Hong'an Class I
Highway is good for wild animals to live in and reproduce.   The  wild
animals found here are foxes, hares and goats. No rare animals have
been found near the section.
12. Cultural Heritage
(a)There are a few of cultural relics along the expressway   with
the ancient battle field remains named Chibi being the most famous
which is situated 38 km northwest of the Yangtze River, 30 km from the
project. The Three Kingdom's battle field Chibi at Chifan Mount of
Jinkou, Jiangxia District is 12 km away from the projected highway. The
ancient street in Xindian Town of Puqi City is 4 km away from the
alignment. According to the survey conducted by Hubei Cultural Relic
Agency, in the study  section  there  are  two  relic  sites,   namely
Lubiangao Remains and Tucheng (Earth City) Remains.
(b) The tourist resourses along Tongshan-Chongyang-Puqi Highway
are Jiulonggong (Nine-Dragon Palace) scenic spot in Tongshan,   Jinsha
Resort in Chongyang County and Wuchibi in Puqi located 20-30 km away
from the alignment. According to the survey, no cultural remains or
9



relics have been found within the study scope.
(c) No cultural relics have been found withn the study scope of
Dawu-Hong'an Highway.
13.   Air Quality
(a) The air quality along the proposed expressway is quite good.
The air quality at five monitoring spots of villages and schools can
all meet class two standards in GB3095-1996.
(b) The air quality along Tongshan- Chongyang- Puqi class I
Highway is quite good.The air quality at four monitoring spots of
villages and schools can all meet class two standards in GB3095-1996.
(c) The air quality along Dawu-Hong'an Highway is quite good. The
air quality at four monitoring spots can all meet class two standards
in GB 3095-1996.
14.   Noise
(a) The noise level monitored at seven spots along the proposed
expressway can all meet class .1 standards in GB3096- 93.
(b) The noise level monitored at nine spots along Tongshan
--Chongyang-Puqi Highway can all meet class two standards in GB3096- 93
except those at Tongyang Elementary School 3 which is located close to
the roadside affected by the traffic noise and noise from the street
market. The noise level exceeds the standards greately.
(c) The noise level monitored at seven spots along Dawu- Hong'an
Highway can all meet the correspond standards in GB3096-93 except two
schools.
15.         Water and Soil Loss
(a) The water and soil loss is slight in Jiangxia District
through which the expressway passes. The average erosion modulus is 1
,000 t/kma.a in 1995 and the loss area makes up about 5% of the natural
area.Xianning lies in the transition area of the plains and low hills
with the latter being greater. The serious surface runoff erosion has
formed weathered matters of argillaceous rock and carbonate rock. Due
to the effect of the natural conditions such as  topography,   geology
and climate, soil erosion is likely to occur. Futhermore, some human
10



activities such as tree-cutting and mountain-burning for farming have
deteriorated the erosion. On the basis of survey, the loss area in
Xianning City is 717.34 km2, making up 47.79X of the total. The total
amount of soil loss is 3.535 t. The annual mean erosion mcdulus is 2
,354 t/km2.a, falling into slight erosion category. In Puqi Section,the
soil-formation.matrix is mainly arenosol rock and argillaceous rock.
The area of water and soil loss is 288.1 km2, making up 16. 7 of the
total area with a loss amount of 1. 2467 million t a year and an
average erosion modulus of 4,300 t/km2.a falling into medium erosion.
(b) The area of Tongshan-Congyang-Puqi Highway is frequently
striken by floods. The soil loss area in Tongshan County is 626.9 km 2
making up 25% of the total area of the county. The area  of  the  soil
loss in Chongyang is 766.7 km2 making up about 38% of the total.   The
average erosion modulus in both counties is about 3,000 t/km2.a.   The
proposed highway lies in the valley between Damu  Mountains  and  Mufu
Mountains where the forest coverage is greater ( 55% and 59. 45%
respectively in the two counties). There is less erodible soil which
are mainly limestone soil and red earth, and the soil-formation matrix
is mainly carbonate rock that is very hard. The section kO+000-k57+000
is located on the light rolling area with soil erosion modulus of 2
,200 t/kin2.a.beloing to slight erosion category, while section k57+000
-k74+800 is located on heavy hilly undulating area with an average
modulus in the country of 3,000 t/km2.a. belonging to medinm erosion.
(c) The soil-formation in Dawu County area is characterized
with coarse and loose grains which is apt to be eroded. According to
survey, the area suffering from water and soil loss was 533. 4 km in
1995 making up 26.86% of the total of the county.   The  mean  erosion
modulus is 4,259.5 t/km2.a belonging  to  medinm  erosion.   While  in
Hong'an County, the terrain rises from south to north with lots of
slope farmland. The soil-formation is mainly loose grains. The water
and soil loss area is 296.8 km2 making up 16.5% of the total in the
county. The average annual loss amount is 0.71-1.535 million t with a
mean modulus of 1,500-14,000 t/km2.a.   The  area  through  which  the
alignment passes belongs to medium erosion with an average modulus of
3,000t/ km2.a.
D. POTENTUIL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
AND MITIGATION MEASURES
16.       Major  potential  impacts  and  their  mitigation  measures
regarding Hubei National Highways Projec IV Expressway and its linking
roads are summerized below and incorperated in the Environmental Actin
11



Plan(EAP)of Hubei National Highways  Project  IV   ( three  copies  of
documents). The EAP stipulate how the environmental impacts identified
in the EIA will be  dealt  with  in  the  design,   consrtruction  and
operation phases, and institutional arrangements have beeni made for
the implementation of the EAP during the three  distinct  phases.   The
key elements of the EAP for National Highway Project IV are summarized
as Appendix I of this Annex..
DESIGN PHASE
17.       Alternative Alignment
Considering various factors including minimization of land
acquisition, impact of air pollution and noise on environmentally
sensitive areas and floods, Xiannning Scheme I was selected as the
recommended scheme for the construction of the expressway.
For the other two highways, the comparison and selection of
the alignment were also conducted, and as the result, the recommended
schemes were selected.
18.       Social Disruption
In order to minimize problems of community separation and
isolation due to the construction the expressway, 6 interchanges ( one
per 18.5 km ) has been designed to facilitae the network of the
existing and planned highways. 190 paasageways have been designed
along the section of 109.815 km( 136 overpasses and 54  underpasses)
that is one passageway per 1.7 km to facilitate the crossing of folk
people for farming.
19.       Soil Erosion
Since the abundance of rainfall along  the  alignment,   the
soil erosion is a major problem. In order to prevent soil erosion as
much as possible, it is suggested to plant grass or sod on slopes and
cutting sites. Slope protection, such as retaining walls and slurry
-lining, are also incorparated in the design. Temporary and permanent
drainage systems are  incorparated    to minimize  soil  erosion  and
alteration of hydrological regimes, including impacts on irrigation
works.
20.       Earthworks
Since the land undulates to a  considerablr  extent,   large
quantities of excavation and backfill works are required in some
sections, which will cause significant impacts on ground stability and
12



ecological setting as well as dust and noise problems during the
construction phase. Particular attention was paid to to balance the
cuts and fills along the route so that spoil from excavation works are
best used for embankment works and impacts of borrow/spoil operations
on farmland are minimized. Quarries and borrow sites are selected in
such  a  way ,as  to  minimize  the  dust  and  other   problems   at
environmentally sensitive locations such as residential areas.
21.       Noise
Most of the villages within 200 m from the roadsides are
small and thinly populated. Altogether 146 environmentally sensitive
sites were selected for special attention for the expressway and its 4
linking roads. According to the traffic noise prediction during the
operation phase(2002, 2012 and 2022), the noise level at some sites
will exceed the assessment criteria. To avoid such noise problems, the
measures such as noise barriers and walls, enclosing walls, relocation
installation of insulated windows, afforestation have been identified
and integrated into the design, considering predicted noise levels and
local situations.
At eleven environmentally sensitive sites along Tongshan
-Chongyang-Puqi Highway the noise levels will exceed the standards to
significant extent, so enclosing walls,    installation  of  insulated
windows, afforestation will be taken to solve the problems.
While for Dawu-Hong'an Highway, 16 sensitive sites exceed the
criteria. The same measures will be taken to solve the problems.
22.      Air Pollution
For Hubei National Highways Project IV, in  2002,   2012  and
2022, at the cross sections predicted, neither NO nor NOx will exceed
the assessment criteria except for the concentration caused by the
increased traffic. However, some measures will be taken such as to
check the exhaust gas at the toll stations.
23.       Water Pollution
Domestic sewage at six toll stations will be disposed of by
means of septic tanks for  fertilising  farmland,   and  the  domestic
garbage will be  disposed  of  centrally.   The  waste  oil  from  the
machinery will be treated by means of oil separators.
Culvert pipes will be preembedded in construction to
facilitate irrigation channels, the cross section of which should not
be smaller than  the  original  cross  section  of  the  channel.   In
construction of permanent drainage  systems,   temporary  channels  or
pipes will be built for irrigation or drainage.
13



24.      Cultural Relics
Following the relevant regulations in China, an archaeological
survey was carried out by Hubei Archaeological Institute in January
-February, 1998.It is found that two sites of remains for the expessway
need  archaeologically  excavating,   the  cost  for  which  has  been
incorperated in.the estimated cost of the project. No cultural relics
have been found in the other two highway sections.
25.       Flooding
Frequent floods occur in the expressway areas due to low
lands.Therefore,   all  bridges  and  roadside  drainage  systems  are
designed to meet requirements for safe discharge of floods ( no less
than 100 year design floods).
All roadside drainage systems,   bridges  and  culverts  are
designed to meet requirements for safe discharge of floods for other
two highways.
26.       Afforestation
Afforestation will be undertaken to improve landscape by
plating bushes and high trees at some schools and villages. Trees will
be planted at living areas , management sections, toll stations and
ramps of interchanges to beautify the environment.
27.       Accidental Spills of Hazardous Materials
To minimize the damage caused by accidental spills of
hazardous materials in river course, crash barries along the road will
be strengthened in bridge design.
CONSTRUCTION PHALSE
28.     For the recommended  scheme  (   Xianning  Scheme I )   of
expressway of the National Highway Project IV in Hubei Province,   the
total amount of 75866.4 m2 buildings will be removed and 1897 people
will be resettled. The Land Acquisition and Building Removal Office
of Jing-Zhu Expressway under the WB Project Office of BPCD is in
charge of this task. The Resettlement Action Plan has been compiled by
this  unit  in  order  to  guarantee    the  problem  of  removal  and
resettlement caused by the project's development  could  be    solved
nicely before construction.
For the other road of the National Highway  Project  IV   in
Hubei Province, the task of building removal will be    taken  by  the
local governments along the route.
29.       Air Pollution
14



Quarries and earth/lime mixing sites will be set up 200 m'
beyond centrally populated areas or schools. Material transport roads
and access roads will be sprayed regularly with water and kept moist.
Asphalt mixing stations will be 300 m away or beyond from and downwind
of the nearest residential area or school, and will be equipped with
dust collectors. Besides, stockpiles and storage areas will be either
covered or sprayed. Mixing devices will be enclosed, and the workers
will be protected properly.
30.       Noise
When the construction activities are within 150 m of the
residential areas, noise construction works will not be undertaken
during the night time(22:00-6:00). When the activities are within 50 m
from the residentioal areas, noise proofing measures will be taken.
When the construction works are slose to schools,   special  attention
will be made to minimize the interference to the  teaching.   Besides,
Maintenance of machines will be strengthened to ensure the lowest
noise produced.
31.       Ecosystem
Planned borrow will be performed by excavating, levelling and
afforesting at the same time. After the construction completed ,   the
borrow sites will be rehabilitated for farming. When the borrow is done
in the flat areas or near lakes, it is suggested to combine the borrow
with aquatic farming, and the people concerned will be consulted prior
to excavation. In addition, the borrow sites will be at proper distance
from the road. Forest areas will not be used for material borrow sites.
Within three months after the subgrade is completed, on the slopes or
other proper places, plantation of trees and grasses will be conducted.
The project itself, plantation, slope protection and roadside drainage
works will be accepted at the same time. If excavation has to be done
in arable land, top soil layer will be saved and retured to the iand
after the construction work is completed to minimize impacts on
ecosystem and agriculture. Education of construction workers will be
strenghened to protect natural resources, wild plants and animals.
Poaching will be strictly prohibited. Spoil disposal will be carried
out in a manner not to cause damage to farmland and other facilitie and
not to block river flow. Spoil diposal sites wil carefully selected in
consultation with local environmental protection bureaus.
32.       Soil Erosion and Water Pollution
Culvert pipes will be preembedded for irrigation channels of
l5



swall type, the cross section of which will not be smaller than the
original one. All necessary measures will be taken to prevent earth
and stones  from  silting  up  rivers,   water  channels  or  existing
irrigation and drainage systems. Temporary channel or conduit will be
constructed for irrigation and drainage during the construction of
permanent drainage systems.
33.       Construction Camps
The domestic sewage, garbage and feces will be disposed of
centrally,not discharged into the water bodies directly. Septic tanks
or dry toilets and garbage disposal sites will be installed at camps
and management areas to treat sewage, garbage or feces for fertilizing
farmland.
34.       Cultural Relics
Construction works will be stopped immediately if any
culturural relics are discovered as a result of road construction or
excavation activities. The local cultural authorities will be informed
and a field survey of the site will be undertaken. Excavation will not
be resumed until authorized institutions identify the importance and
the necessary preservation measures of the discovery.
35.       Transportation Management
Hauling route of construction materials will be selected in
a careful manner to minimize intrerference with existing communucations
facilities, dust  and  noise.   Adequate  actions  will  be  taken  in
consultation with Communications and Public Security Departments , to
prevent or minimize traffic accidents during the construction period.
Furthermore, at crossings of roads temporary survice roads will be
installed as appropriate. A transportation plan will be developed to
avoid transportation of construction materials during peak traffic
hours on existing roads.
36.      Construction Safety
In order to guarantee consruction safety, efficient lighting
equipment and safety signs will be installed and maintained on
temporary  roads  during  the  construction,   and  adequate  traffic
regulations will be adopted and implemented for temporary roads. During
the construction, effective safety and warning measures will be adopted
to reduce accidents.  Blasting  time,   signals  and  guards  will  be
stipulated. People and vehicles in dangerous areas will be evacuated in
time. Thorough checks will be made before blasting. Blasting will not
be carried out during peak work periods so as to avoid traffic jams,
injuries and deaths of  people.   Management  and  usage  of  blasting
16



materials will strictly follow safety requirements of the Public
Security Department.
OPERATION PHASE
37.       Noise and Air Pollution
No horning signs will be installed at school sections. Noise
-isolating windows will be adopted , and afforestation will be made too
to-minimize noise and air pollution.
38.       Vehicle Management
Better vehicle maintenance and management will be enhanced
to keep vehicles in  good  conditions.   Vehicle  noise  and  emission
inspection will be strenghened. If a vehicle does not comply with the
noise and/or emission standards, an operating license will not be given.
Old vehicles with low speed , great noise and high oil consumption
will not be allowed to run on the expressway. Vehicles will be checked
at the toll stations.
39.       Traffic Management
Toll stations will be used for traffic  management.   During
snowy and foggy days, driving speed will be limited to avoid traffic
accidents.No vehicles with leakage and overload will be allowed to run
on the expressway to avoid water pollution.
40.       Risk of Hazardous Materials Spill
An emergency leading team has been set up with relevant
department  by  both  the  Hubei  Provincial   High-  class   Highway
Administrative Bureau and the Provincial Environmental Protection
Bureau  to deal with accidental spill of  hazardous  materials.   This
leading team was already set up in Project X, so it is asked to to
undertake the management of hazardous  materials  spill.   The  Public
security Bureau will designate specific routes and parking lots for
vehicles carrying hazardous materials. In case of accidental spill of
hazardous materials, the relevant departments will be immediately
informed to take prompt actions based on the emergency plan.
41.       Expresswy Control Area
Construction of schools and hospitals requiring high environment
standards will not be allowed within 111 m from the central line of
the road.
E. ALTERNATIVE SCHEMNES
17



42.          In  the  determination  procedure  of  alignment  scheme,
consultations and discussions are made many times among designing unit
(Hubei Provincial Communication Planning and Designing Institute), EIA
unit(Xian Highway Transportation University) ,  government  agencies,
environmental  protection  departments,   city  planning  departments,
deputies to the National People's Congress, and affected masses along
the proposed highway. To eliminate the unfavorable impacts by the
highway construction, the route makes detour to avoid big villages,
schools, military installations, etc. In the  mean  time,   the  route
avoids lakes as far away as possible to eliminate the impacts on water
bodies. Upon the synthetic consideration  of  engineering,   economic,
environmental  and  resettlement  elements,   recommended  schemes  are
determined.
(a)           The four alternatives are chosen for the expressways  of
the Hubei Project IV: Xianning Scheme I, Xianning Scheme I, Xianning
Sheme I and Jiayu Scheme. In the project feasiblity study report in
Oct.1996 or early reports, Xianning Scheme I was the recommended one
with the three other ones comparative. From than on, based on careful
study by the Hubei Communication Planning and Design Institute and the
requirements from the World Bank, Xianning Sheme I was determined as
the recommended scheme in March of 1998 with the three other ones as
the comparative from which Scheme I is the major one. The alignments
of the four schemes are shown in Fig.2.   Considering  all  the  above
facors, we can conclude that Xianning Scheme I  is  superior  to  the
others.
(b)            There are three road sections having  alternatives  for
Tongshan-chongyang-Puqi class two highway, i.e. Road Section of Urban
Tongshan City, Road Section of Puqi Textile Factory and Road Section of
Suburban Puqi. For their alignments, see Annex Fig. Compared with the
comparative scheme, the recommended one is superior to the other one
considering various factors such as engineering, cost, environment and
resettlement.
(c)            There are two road sections having alternatives for Dawu
-Hong'an class two highway, i.e. Xincheng Road Section and Hekou Road
Section. For their alignments,  see  Annex  Fig.   Compared  with  the
comparative scheme, the recommended one is superior to the other one
considering various factors such as engineering, cost, environment and
resettlement.
F. INVESTIMEN FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECT[ON
18



startin3g point~
-1. Mlik"--tifi, ~ ~ ~ ~ 4                          fi'  r *,
Compared Sheme  (Iiem iag Sh pint
K                                 Xianniug Scheme III & J~~~~~~~~~~~iayuShee
,                               Large Bridge~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
k~ Sketch Map of mgmeut Schemes ofiaNationalem
The ending point    ~ ~ ~~   ~#~'  ~ ~     hway  Promectredi Sheme  iaPrninc SeeU



43.       The investment for - environmental  protection  of  National
Highway Project IV in Hubei Province consist of the following three
parts.
(a)       The expressway of National  Highway  Project  IV   in Hubei
Province and its linking roads require 29.092 million yuan for    lump
-sum cost oi environmental protection engineering, and 14. 1 million
yuan for total 20 years operational cost of environmental protection
facilities.
(b)       The other road of the National Highways Project IV--Class I
Tongshang-Chongyang-Puqi Highway requires 3.255 million yuan for lump
-sum cost of environmental protection engineering, and 2. 15    million
yuan for total 20 years operational cost of environmental protection
facilities.
(c)       The other road of the National Highways Project IV--Class I
Dawu-Hong'an Highway requires 2.485 million yuan for lump- sum cost
of environmental protection engineering, and 1.775 million yuan for
total 20 years operational cost of environmental protection facilities.
G. ENVIRONMETAL MONITORING AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
a. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING
44.       During  the  construction  and  operation  phases  of  Hubei
National Highways Project IV   and  the  other  roads,   environmental
monitoring will be carried out to verify the actual impacts on the
environment, identify unexpected environmental probloms at an early
stage, and adjust environmental protection measures as appropriate.
The  highway  monitoring  units  under  Hubei  High-  class   Highway
Administrative Bureau will be responsible for environmental monitoring
during construction and operation phases.
45.       THe major items to be monitored  during  construction  phase
will include air quality, noise, and water quality. These items will be
monitored during the operation as well. In addition, sewage discharge
at survice areas, toll stations and administrative areas will be
monitored. The detailed monitoring plan is presented below.
46.       Air Quality
During the construction phase, TSP and asphalt fumes will be
monitored at the asphalt mixing sites and earth/lime mixing sites and
construction sites without pavement. TSP and asphalt fumes will be
19



monitored once a week, two times a day in the morning and afternoon.
47.       During the operation phase, NOx, CO and TSp will be monitored
two times a year for five consecutive days each time.  Four  times  of
sampling is done a day at sensitive sites such as schools and hospitals.
48.       Noise
During the construction phase,   noise  monitoring  will  be
carried out once a week at the sensitive sites (schools and hospitals),
and one day a time, i.e. two times of sampling In daytime and at night.
During the operation phase, noise will be monitored four times a year,
one day each time, i.e. two times of sampling in daytime and at night.
49.       Water Quality
During the construction and operation phases, water quality
will be monitored involving the following rivers and reservoirs: Cai,
Gan,Dingsi and Pan (Hubei National Highways Project IV   Expressway) ;
Xiadian,Nieshui, Xinzhai Reservoir, PIshui, Tongshan, Baini and Lushui
Reservoir (Hubei National Highways Project IV other roads). Monitoring
will be conducted once per week.
50.           Waste  water  from  the  survices,   toll  stations  and
administrative areas will be monitored two times a year.
b.  INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
51.        During the construction and operation phases, the following
institutional arrangements for environmental protection will be
undertaken for Hubei National Highways Project IV and the other roads.
(a) The Environmental Protection Office of HPCD staffed
with three experts and other staff members set up for Project 3 will
be responsible for the environmental management and excution of
various regulations by the employer of Project TV and the other roads.
(b) Two experts in environmental protection from the WB
Project Office of Hubei Provincial Communications Department ( HPCD)
will be in charge of the environmental management of  Project  IV   in
design and construction phase.
(c) Two experts in environmental protection from Hubei High
Class  Highway  Administrative  Bureau  will  be  in  charge  of  the
20



implementation of the protection measures and administration during-
the operation phase of Project IV.
Two experts in envoronmental protection from Hubei Highway
Bureau will be in charge of the implementation of environmental
protection measures and administration of the other roads- during the
operation phase of Project IV.
(d) One or two persons from each of the Highway Management
Divisions of Xianning City, Puqu, Jiangxia Ditrict, Tongshan County,
Chongyang County, Dawu County and Hong'an County will be responsible
for the environmental managemant of their own division.
(e) The environmental monitoring unit under Hubei
Provincial High-class Highway Bureau ( was established for Project. 3)
will carry out the environmental monitoring during both construction
and operation phases or entrust the local relative units to carry out
the task.
(f)  During  the  construction  phase,   six  environmental
supervisors will be in the employ of the WB Project Office of HECD to
be in charge of the environmental supervision of ProjectlV Expressway.
Three  environmental  supervisors  will be   responsible  for   the
environmental supervision of Tongshan- Chongyang- Puqi Highway,   two
supervisors will be responsible for the environmental supervision of
Dawu- Hong'an  Highway.   The  environmental protection  measures  in
tendering documents and articles in EAP will be supervised.
52.       The following environmental training will be  undertaken  to
provide adequate training for enrivonmental staff at all levels.
(a)Four staff each from Hubei WB Project Office, High- class
Highway Administrative Bureau,EP Office of HPCD and Provincial Highway
Planning & Design Institute will be sent to developed countries to
investigate environmental management and study advanced experiences
abroad.
(b) During construction phase, the following personnel will
attend domestic environmental protection management trainig:   2  from
Provincial WB Project Office; 2 from each road-section administrative
unit of Jiangxia District, Xiannning City and Puqi City and Provincial
Highway Bureau; 1 from each communications division of Tongshan,
Chongyan, Puqi, Dewu and Hong'an totalling 15.
(c)During construction, 11 environmental supervisors will be
21



assigned to attend domestic environmental supervision training.
(d) During construction, 16 persons will be sent to attend
training courses on dealing with emergency.
(et. During operation phase, 31 persons will attend domestic
training on environmental protection management. They are: 2 from High
- class  Highway  Administrative  Bureau;      4   from   each   highway
administrative unit of Jiangxia District,   Xiannning  City  and  Puqi
(including those during construction phase); 2 from Provincial Highway
Bureau; 3 from each communications division of Tongshan, Chongyang and
Puqu (including those during  construction  phase) ;   4    from  each
communications division of Dawu and Hong'an.
H. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
53. Scope of and Method for Public Participation
In Dec.1997, the EIA group of this project made public surveys in
the  areas  that  will    be  affected  by  the  proposed  highway  in
Jiangxia district,  Xianning City ,  Puqi  City,   Chongyang  County,
Tongshan County, Dawu County and Hong'an County . We held meetings and
delivered questionnaires to collect opinions from representatives of
NPC ( National People's Congress) , people's governments at different
levels, social  organizations along  the  route,   and  especally  the
people in the affected area on both sides of the  routes.   We    also
consulted environmental  protection  organizations,         agricultural
organizations, forestry organizations and transportation organizations
about environmental protection along the route.
54.  Opinions and requirements from the impacted people ,       social
organizations and  peoples governments along the proposed highway  are
as follows:
(1) The impacted people along the proposed highway are concerned at
compensation of land acquisition and resettlement.   They  asked  that
compensation should be executed according to the requirements of state
policies.
(2) Most of the impacted people  asked to be resettled in their own
villages when they have to move. v
(3) Most of the impacted people in the area  along  the    proposed
expressway worries about the inconvenience in future visiting and
shopping caused by the separation of the proposed expressway.   It  is
asked that fly over bridges and passage ways be built near their
villages.
(4) When we talking about the impact problems of noise and
exhausting gas with villagers, they asked that protection measures be
adopted or moving to a suitable place far away from the expressway but
22



still in their own village.
(5) Teachers of the impacted schools ask for construction of
surrounding walls to minimize noise and protect safety of their
students.
(6) Villagers in the area passed by linking roads .shown a much
warmer attitude to the construction of the proposed project than the
villagers in the area  passed  by  expressway,   we  found  almost  no
complain from the former.
(7) All the governments at city or county level welcomed the
highway  sections  to  pass  through  the  area   under   their   own
administration.
(8) It is asked that at least 1 interchange be built in each city
and district where the expressway passes through.
55. Solutions to Problems
(1) During  the  construction  of  the proposed  highway,         the
Construction unit will act in close coordination with the local
governments and National People's   Congress    at  different  Levels,
collect opinions and requirements from  the  public  in    time    and
strictly executes state rules and regulations about land acquisition,
Temoval and resettlement and compensation. Resettlements of the
families will be arranged in their own villages as far as possible.
(2) As to the "exits and entrances" of the proposed highway
required by governments along the route, it had been considered
thoroughly in the Feasibility Study Report on this project. Ensure 1
to  2  interchanges  set  for  every City   or    District.   Average
distance between interchanges is 18.5km, which can meet the demand
for connection between the existing highways and the proposed highway.
(3)   Because  most  of  the  impacted  people  worries  about  the
inconvenience in future visiting and shopping caused by the separation
of the proposed expressway, the designing  unit    plans  to  set  190
passage ways along the line to satisfy the requirements of local
residents. As for the total 109.815km long  expressway,   the  average
distance between passage ways is 0.58km, which can basically meet
the needs of the local people for communication and farming.
(4) To the noise pollution problems concerning by the impacted
people and teachers of the impacted schools,   specific  analysis  and
studies with concrete measures have been made already in the
assessment reports. Suitablq mitigation measures will be adopted.   In
the execution procession of the measures, more consultations will be
done for the impacted people. Satisfaction of the impacted people will
be achieved in the end.
The  suggestions    and  requirements    arising  from  public
participation have been given a thorough    consideration    at    the
preparation stage of the highway.
23



I. CONCLUSION
56.        From the environmental point of view, the    recommended
scheme is superior to the comparative scheme.
57.        The impacts upon acoustic and air environmental  quality
during construction  are  mainly the noise of construction  machinery,
dust and asphalt smog pollution. The environmental quality of life and
teaching in sensitive spots, such as villages and schools along the
route will not be affected to a great extent. The measures such as
reasonable-construction schedule, proper sites of asphalt concrete
mixing plants and lime soil mixers, sprinkling at proper time and
covering with canvas, etc. will be implemented.
58.        There is no distribution of rare animals and  plants  in
the assessment area along the proposed highway. The construction of
the project will have no effect on rare animals and plants.
59.        The construction of the proposed  highway  will  not  be
started until the two sits with cultural relics have been excavated
and protected, so that the construction of the proposed highway    has
not greatly impact on historical relics.
60.        Sewage of toll  station and managemental zones  will  be
treated by septic tank before using in irrigation, which can solve the
pollution problem of surface water by waste water utilization. Sewage
of service zones and rest zones will be treated by small style waste
water treatment station to attain standard before discharging.
61.        During the service time of  the  highway,   the  traffic
noise may affect the acoustic quality to a certain extent, especially
near residential  quarters   and    schools.       When    environmental
protection measures are taken, the reasonable teaching and living
conditions can be assured.
62.        The constructive project          the  National  Highways
ProjectWV Expressway and its linking roads and the two other roads
will be of great  significance  in    accelerating  regional  economic
development; improving the present state of transportation; improving
the condition for investment and promoting the development of the
tourist industry. The construction of the project will result in
some negative environmental effects along the route,  such  as    loss
of  land  resources,   damage  to  vegetation  and  the  reduction  of
environmental quality, etc. But when corresponding measures are taken
the negative effects upon the environment will   be    alleviated  or
eliminated. The negative effects will be allowed by the environment.
Therefore, the construction of the project is feasible.
24



Appendix I.    The EIA  Standards
Standards                                                     Identifier
"Standard of Environmental Noise of Urban Area"               GB3096-93
"Ambient Air Quality Standard'                                GB3095-1996
"Surface Water Quality Standard'                              GB3838-88
'Standards For Irrigation Water Quality"                      GB5084-92
'Integrated Wastewater Discharge Standard'                    GB8978-1996
"Environmental Quality Standard for Soils"                    GB15618-1995
'Hygienic Standards for Limitation of Pb in Food"             GB14935-94
'Construction Site Border Area Noise Level'                   GB12523-90
'Bitumen Industry Pollutant Emission Standard'                GB12523-90
'Environmental  Vibration  Standard for Urban Area'  (GB10071-88)
Table 1-1      Standard of Envionmentsa Noise of Urban Area (GB309r-93)
Classification' Daytime dB(A)  Nighttime dB(A) I          Applicable area
0        |     50        |     40        !   Special resident area
I        |     55              45             Resident, education and institution
2              60 50                      Resident,commercial,industrial mixed area
3        |     65              55             Built-up industrial area
4        |     70        |     55             Both sides of trunk road
Table 1-2     Ambient Air Quality Standards (GB3095-1996)
Limitation concentration     mg/Nm3
Pollutants                                    _                C
Timce                                ls 
TSP                  Daily average                               0.3
COD                  Daily average                              4
One hour average                           10
NOK          |       Daily average                              0.1
I____ _ 1 One hour average                         0.15
Note:
Standard Class 2 Is suitable for the residential regions;  comercial,  communicative and
residential mixed regions; ordinary industrial and rural areas.
25



Table 1-3  Surface Water Envirnment Quality  Standards (GB  8 )
Classification
Pal lutants                  I           I                       p *   i
PH                               6.5              8.                     69
COD.. (mg/l) <                 2           4          6            8             10
Oil (mg/I)    <                0.05       0.05      0.05           0.5    r      1.0
Pb (mg/I)        <             0.01       0.05      0.05          0.05           0.1
Note:
Standard Class lis suitable for the sources of water and the natural protection regions
Standard Class I is suitable for the Class I protection areas of sources of centralized
drinking water; precious fish protection areas; fish and shrimp aquiculture areas;
Standard Class I is suitable for the Class 2 protection areas  of sources of centralized
drinking water; ordinary fish protection areas; and swimning areas;
Standard Class IV is suitable for the ordinary industrial area and indirectly contact amusement
areas;
Standard Class V is suitable for the agricultural areas and ordinary scenery areas;
Table 1-4 Standards For lrrigation Water Quality (GBSS4-M2)
i           crops         classif ication
Pollutants                i                                        l
I waterfarming|   dryfarming                  vegetable
I                                       I
BOD5   (mg/I)   <               80                    150                 80
COD..  (mg/I)   <               200                   300                 150
SS   (mg/I)        <            150          I        200                 100
Oil (mg/I)         <            5.0                    10-         i      1.0
PH                                             5.5  - 8.5
Pb   ( mg/I)       <                               0.1
Table 1-6    Integrated Wastewater Discharge Standard  (GB8978-199)
Pollutants           | Scope of application               j Class 1   Class 2   Class 3
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I.
PH       <             Any construction project             6 - 9   i 6 - 9          6 - 9
SS_____ ormalconstuctio project____ _ +
SS    (mg/I)   <       Normal construction project             70         150         400
BOD.  (mg/I)         j Normal construction project             20    i    30          300
COD..  (mg/I)  <    Normal construction project  | 100    |   150    j 500
+           I
Oil    (mg/I)         Any construction project                 5    I    10    j    20
Pb    (mg/l)  <    [Any construction project                              1.0
Note: Observed by construction projects after Jan.1,1998.
Standard Class 1 is suitable for the wastewater discharged into water areas observing GB3838-88B
Standard;
Standard Class 2 is suitable for the wastewater discharged into water areas observing GB3838-881V,
V Standard;
Standard Class 3 is suitable for the wastewater discharged into drainage system of cities or
towns with  seWrage treatment plants observing GE3838-88B Standard.
26



Table 1-6  Envromental quaot  tandard for sags GB1161&-1995  Unit: mg/kg
class  1                 class 2                       class 3
Background         PH           PH          PH             PH
Pollutants,,              PH            < 6.5        6.5-7.5       > 7.5        >6.5
Pb   <                35             250          300          350          500
Note:
Standard Class I is suitable for the natural protection regions and the sources of centralized
drinking waters
Standard Class 2 is suitable for the ordinary farmlands, tea plantations, orchards and pastures:
Standard Class 3 is suitable for the farmlands near forestlands and minerals.
Table 1-7 Hygienic Standards for Limitation of Pb in Food GB14935-94 Unit: mg/kg
Pollutants                                       Crops
Grain                         Vegetable
Pb   <                       0.4                            0. 2
Tible 1-8 Enviromental Vibration Standard for Urban Area (GBIO71-88) Ieq:dB(A)
Applicable area                       Daytime  dB(A)         Nighttime dB(A)
Special resident area              I          65                       65
Resident 8 education                          70                       67
t
Resident,commercial,               l
industrial mixed area                         75                       72
t
Both sides of trunk road                      75                       72
27



Appendix I.
The Key Elements of the EAP for the National Highway Project nr
and the Other Roads in Hubei Province
Eiviraneetal problem             Mitip tion measures                     Action unit 1 Agencies in
ctarge
A . Design stage
1. Farmland occupet im   Oxpare alternate schaiCs to select a         Design &          WB Project
recaOMaMed scheme for being far away from  assessment units  Office of HM
villages and schools, less farmland
occupation
2.Soil erosion          Afforestation an plantation an side slopes Design B              B Project
along the epressway, constructien of soil assessment units Office of HRD
retaining wall, intercept ditch and mortar
bmund.
3.Noise                 Adopt mitigatian measures at sensitive        Design &          YB Project
spots beyond standard.                       assessment units  Office of HFCD
4.Air pollution         Proper selection of quarry or earth borro- Design B             YB Project
wing site, spoil area, location of mixing   assessment units lOffice of HPD
plant, taking into account of sensitive
.isorica  relics       receivers.
5.Historical relics    |lnvestigation for the historical relics       Provincial       IWB Project
along the proposed expressway.               Historical Relics Office of HPD
Research
Institute
I                                            1*,                     
6.Land acquisition &    Action plan must be made for proper lamd    Resettlement       JIB Project
resettlement          acquisition and resettlement.                 Office of HBCD    Office of HKD
7.Accident caused by    ODllide-proof banisters will be strengthenr- Design &           YB Project
dangerous articles      ed an bridges to prevent from vehicles       jassessment units  Office of HPCD
leakage   in            dropping into the rivers in accidents of
transportation          dangerous article transportation.
B.Construction stage
l.Ecolcgical resource   .No earth borrow site in forest land.         Cbntractor        YB Project
.Avoid earth borrowing from farm land. As                      Office of HPCD
to the temporarily occupied lands, the
surface layer soil will be preserved and
put back after construction for reducing
the impact as mich as possible.
-EBucation and training of the workers to
protect the wild aninals & plants,bunting
is prohibited strictly.
.Earth borrowing site will be better chosen
at the location of future fish paon.
.1Disposal of engineering earth and rock
will made without plight farm land and
other facilities or blocking rivers,
disposal sites will be decided in consul-
tion with local Environmental Protection
Bureaus.
to be oontimned next page
28



Mm Ke  E              of tim EAP  for the Nadt a  Highwy  Projeat r
and the 0dbh   R oak in I3hbe Pzwhome (ont iue from last page)
Eiviramntal problems             Mitigatian measures                     Actian umit   Agencies in
ncharge
2.Soil erouian ad        .Tree or grass plantatiom an side slope      Contractor        YB Project
irrigatian             will be dam in three nmmths after conr-                        Office of IIX
structimn of subgrade, and also rehabil-
itation or reconstructian of damaged
irrigatimn or drainage facilities.
N.lecssary measures will be adopted to
prevent the river,water cdarnel or exist-
ing irrigatim & drainage system fram
being blocked by soil & stane.
While permanent drainage system being
built,substitute ditch or pipeline will
be built for irrigation & drainage.
.Reasonable measures will be taken to pre-
vent direct discbarge of waste water into
the river & irrigatian system.
3.Water pollution      I.Reascnable procedures will be taken as       Cantractor        WB Project
cofferdam method or drop shaft sinking                        Office of ECD
in bridge comstructian to prevent water
pollution of rivers.
.Sewage, garbage of cmstructian camp will J
be assembled & treated before discharge.
Dry toilets and septic tanks ust be
built for sewage disposal.       Garbage
will be ccmcentrated in the garbage heap-
ing plants.
Ewhwircnnent mnuageent and protection      |
education to workers will be strengthened
for strictly checking the machines aind
ships to prevent oil leakage. Dumping of
waste oil into water bodies will be banmed
.Construction materials as asphalt,oil 8
chemical articles will not be allowed
piling up near weils or rivers,and miffl-
ers will be prepared for covering these
materials from being washed into water
bodies in windy or raining days.
4. Noise               ! Strictly implmentatiun of industrial        I Qmtractor         WB Project
noise standard to protect the workers from                     Office of HRCD
being hurt by noise. Using ear plug &
helmet,and strictly limiting workinT  time
schedule.
.No night time work (22:OO6:O00) when there
is residential areas within 150(. .
.Cnstruction umit will negotiate with the
teachers about the working schedule to
reduce the noisy disturbance to rcutine
teaching of schools.
.Meticulous maintenance of the machine
to mitigate the noise impact.
_   _     _             _     ___                                                   I _      _
to be cant iued next page
29



The Key             of  the EAP  for the Ndan.m     Ifwhwa   Pioject  lv
and the Otber Roads hi Iubi PrOviae (oomtium froI luast pege)
Eiviromuental problems           Mitigation measures                     Actim  umit    Agencies in
charge
5.Air pollution          .AI1 reasamble measures including sprink- Omtractor            YB Project
i4ng(especially in dry season) to reduce air                   Office of HEXD
pollution of construction, pay attentio
to the icpact on nearby residential sites
.Materials yards adn coarete mixing plants
will be at least 20m   way from
residential regions.
.The bulk meterials will be covered either
in storage or transportation.
.Mixing plant of asphalt will be at least
3CCm away from amd domiwrxl of the
nearest residential sites.
.Space of mixers will be separated to pre-
vent air polluticrLFay attention to the
health of wrkers.
6.Historical Relics     Excavation will be itopped imediately when Cmtractor           IWB Project
a historical relic site is found,and dome-                      Office of HWD
stic historical relic management agencies
lwill be informed simultanemusly.Excavation
must be prohibited before appraisal of the
site and adoption of protection measures.
7.Trasportation         .Careful route selection for construction  IContractor         IUB Project
management             materials transport,avoiding long distance                     ;Office of HWD
transport   and  impact on  existing       I
highway facilities. Mitigate pollution of I
traffic dust and traffic noise.            I
.Rational scheme and measures will be care-
fully considered when temporary road for
construction crosses existing road.        I
.Constructicn material transportation will
I be plamed to avoid traffic peak hour of
existing road.
I                                            i                  i
8.Construction           .Lighting and safety signs an  marks will  Cbmtractor          IYB Project
safety                 b be provided on temporary road, rational                        Off ice of HWD
traffic regulation will be adopted
I.Effective safely and warning signals will
be adopted during construction stage,such
as careful   checking and thoughtful
arrangement in explosion work to prevent
any accident, strict management of explo-
sive materials by following safety requir-
ements set by the public security          I
department.
to be continued next page
30



use Ke  D3ilmrt oi the  AP for the Nadtinl]  IF%hway P]ojmac  iv
and the O dbw Rods in HEubd Pxovh     (mmt inna fram last page)
Ehvironmental problems          mitip timc measures                     Action mit    Agenies in
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ctarge
C Operatia  Stage
l.Noise and air         .Set horning beInd rarks at sowtics mar  Higsey                Hubei Provincial
pollutio               shools .                                   I nmgemnt          High-Class
.In regiaml planming, umits as residential Divisima            Higbhwy
sites, achool sad bospital are avoided to                    Administrative
be built near the prqposed higmway which  Governxts of    bireaun
should b1m  a better anvirament.           cities  or
.Insulated windbow      and otber noise proof district
measures will be adqpted at sites boyend
standard.
.Aforestation mad plantation at both
sides of the road to mitigate air & noise
pollutiaL
2.Water pollutin         In toll statian & mnogiemental z es,        Highway           Hubei Provincial
septic tank will be built to treat sewage.  hMgagmmnt        Higb-Class
Only after treatment, can it be used in   Divisia             Highway
irrigatien or fertilization, oil waste                       Administrative
water should be treated by oil separating                     Euroau
tank. Garbage will be assecbled then
disposed.
.Smll style waste water treatmuent station
will be set up in service & rest zons
alog the expressway.After treatment,the
waste water can be discharged or used for
irrigatiax. Garbage will be assembled for
disposal.
3.-bnagemnent of        Strenthen vehicle maintenance & monagemnt  Highway             Hubei Provincial
vehicles              to insure read worthness of the vehicls,   imanaent            High-Class
strenthen vehicle emissimo  inspection &    Divisim ,          Highway
iuplnemntatiai of the noise and missicm    Pblice and         Administrative
standards,no permissimn or certificate      ccammicatim      Ereau
issued for unqualif led vehicles            agencies
to be continued next page
' I



hue Ke E_       W  of the EAP  bcr thle Na,ai Hgway  Projset  IV
a.d tbe OthXer Boade in Hbd3 Pi'wov e (ccmtire e frmn last poge)
Envirounental problem           Mitigation  measures                   Action mtt   Ageaies in
.. arge
4.Risk of dangerous    .An aergencyW leading group caisisted by   Highway             Hubei Provincial
article transport      the ccscerning agencies in Higbway MI5a- Management          HighrCass
ement Bureau and EP Eureau of Hubei Prov- Divisimn           Higbway
nce in project l,vbich is for dealing                        Administrative
with the leakage accidents of dangerous                      Bureau
articles specially. Now this greup is in  Pblice and
charge of the rEragement of dangerous    c|aimicatian
article transportatian an this proposed    agencies
expressway too.
.Three certificate are required for dange-
rous article transportati n:transportation
permissian,driver's license smd safety
escort certificate.Dbngeroaus mrks mist
be set an the vehicles.
.Special route aid parking spots will be
specified by the public security bureau.
I.In case of the accident caused by dawger- j
ous article leakage,concerning agencies
will be informed immediately,cmergency
acticms will be followed based cn the plan
D.Ehvircmental          hplement envircanental monitoring work    'Mantoring units  jHubei Provincial
Mmnitoring           laccording to the specifications issued by  ! belong to HFCD  |High-Class
NEPA in forms of m mitoring standiard and                     Highway
method.                                                       Administrative
Bureau
32



