Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19287-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOA-N
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$350 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIA
FOR A
FOURTH NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 19, 1999
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1999)
Currency Unit = RMB
RMB 1.00 = US$0.12
US$ 1.00 = RMB 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
9FYP      -  Ninth Five Year Plan (1996-2000)             MOC        -  Ministry of Communications
1 OFYP    -  Tenth Five year Plan (2001-2005)             MOF        -  Ministry of Finance
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank                       MTE        -  Medium Truck Equivalent
AIS       -  Accident Information System                  NAO        -  National Audit Office
BMS       -  Bridge Management System                     NH         -  National Highway
BOT       -  Build-Operate-Transfer                       NCB        -  National Competitive Bidding
CAS       -  Country Assistance Strategy                  NPV        -  Net Present Value
E&M       -  Electrical, Electronic and Mechanical        NR         -  National Road
EA        -  Environmental Assessment                     NTHS       -  National Trunk Highway System
EAP       -  Environmental Action Plan                     OECF      -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (of Japan)
EASES    -  Environment and Social Development Sector Unit OED       -  Operations Evaluation Departnent
EASTR    -  Transport Sector Unit                         PAD        -  Project Appraisal Document
EIA       -  Environmental Impact Assessment              PAP        -  Project Affected People
EIRR      -  Economic Internal Rate of Return              PCD       -  Provincial Communications Department
ENPV      -  Estimated Net Present Value                  PCU        -  Passenger Car Unit
EPB       -  Environmental Protection Bureau              PEO        -  Project Execution Office
EPO       -  Environmental Protection Office               PMS       -  Pavement Management System
ERR       -  Economic Rate of Return                      PPI-PSD   -  Private Participation in Infrastructure Group in
Private Sector Department
ES        -  Executive Summary (Environmental Report)     PRC        -  People's Republic of China
ESW       -  Economic and Sector Work                      PSB       -  Public Security Bureau
FIAS      -  Foreign Investment Advisory Services          RAP       -  Resettlement Action Plan
GNP       -  Gross National Product                       RDB        -  Road Data Bank
GOC       -  Governnent of China                           RMC       -  Resident Mission China
GOVAI   -  Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry    RMF     -  Road Maintenance Fee
HDM       -  Highway Design and Maintenance Model          SOE       -   Statement of Expenditures
HPCD      -  Hunan and Hubei Provincial Communications     SDPC      -  State Development and Planning Commission
Departments
HPECDC  -  Hunan Provincial Expressway Construction and    TA        -  Technical Assistance
Development Corporation
HPFB      -  Hunan Provincial Finance Bureau               TCE       -  Tucheng-Changsha Expressway
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding             TEA       -  Traffic Engineering Association
IFC       -  International Finance Corporation             WBFPO   -  World Bank Finance Project Office/Hubei
ITIC      -  International Trade and Investmnent Corporation    Y    -  Yuan RMB
JINGZHU  -  Beijing-Zhuhai Expressway                     ZTE        -  Zhengdian-Tucheng Expressway
LA&R      -  Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Regional Vice President:             Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director:                    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager:                      Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Tearn Leader/Task Manager:    Alfred Nickesen, Pr. Transport Specialist, EASTR



CHINA
Fourth National Highway Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
A.   Project Development Objective  .............................................................2
1.    Project development objective and key performance indicators ................ ...................2
B.   Strategic Context .............................................................2
1.    Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .......2
2.    Main sector issues and Govermment strategy ..............................................................3
3.    Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .............. .................4
C.   Project Description Summary ..............................................................7
1.   Project components ..............................................................7
2.    Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .................. ...................7
3.    Benefits and target population .............................................................. : . 9
4.    Institutional and implementation arrangements ..........................................................   10
D.   Project Rationale ............................................................. 11
1.   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection  ........................................... 11
2.    Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  ...... 14
3.    Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ....................................................  15
4.    Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..................................................  16
5.    Value added of Bank support in this project ........................................................   16
E.  Summary Project Analysis .................. 17
1. Economic ................. 17
2. Financial ................. 17
3. Technical ................. 17
4. Institutional ................. 18
5. Social ................. 18
6.  Environmental assessment ................. 19
7.  Participatory approach ................. 20
F.  Sustainability and Risks ................ 21
1.  Sustainability ................ 21
2. Critical Risks ................ 22
3.    Possible Controversial Aspects ....................  23



Page No.
G.  Main Loan Conditions ................................... 23
1.   Effectiveness Conditions ................................... 23
2.   Agreement Reached with the Government ................................... 23
3.   Agreements Reached with the Beneficiaries ..........    .......................... 23
H.  Readiness for Implementation ................................... 25
L    Compliance with Bank Policies ................................... 26
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary ...................................................... 27
Annex 2.  Hunan and Hubei Highway Sector Revenues and Expenditures, 1996-2005 .............. 43
Annex 3.  Project Description ...................................................... 46
Annex 4.  Policy and Institutional Reform Program ............................. ......................... 49
Annex 5.  Road Traffic Safety Program  ...................................................... 63
Annex 6.  China's Evolving Highway Program and Financing Issues ........................................ 69
Annex 7.  Bank Involvement and Achievements in China's Highway Sector .............. .............. 74
Annex 8.  Estimated Project Costs ...................................................... 78
Annex 9.  Financing Plans ...................................................... 81
Annex 10. Implementation Schedule .84
Annex 11. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .100
Annex 11, Table A:   Consolidated Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .     102
Annex 11, Table A-a:  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements Hunan Section     103
Annex 11, Table A-b: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements Hubei Section .    104
Annex 11, Table B:   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .105
Annex 11, Table C- 1: Estimated Disbursement Schedule .108
Annex 11, Table C-2:  Allocation of Loan Proceeds .109
Annex 12. Economic and Financial Evaluation .110
Annex 13. Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary .127
Annex 14. Resettlement Action Plan Summary .134
Annex 15. Financial Management System .139
Annex 16. Project Processing Budget and Schedule .146
Annex 17. Documents in the Project File .147
Annex 18. Statement of Loans and Credits .149
Annex 19. Country at a Glance .152
Maps
1. China: National Trunk Highway System (NTHS), IBRD 29904
2. Zhengdian (Wuhan)-Changsha Expressway, IBRD 29905



CHINA
Fourth National Highway Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Date: May 19, 1999                                  Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Alfred Nickesen
Country Director: Yukon Huang                       Sector Manager: Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project ID: CN-PE-41268 Sector: Transportation      Program Objective Category:
Lending Instrument: Special Investment Loan         Program of Targeted Intervention:   [  Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan        [  Credit      [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$M): 350.0
Proposed terms:                        []  Multicurrency      [X] Single currency, specify -US dollars
Grace period (years): 5          []   Standard Variable  [7]  Fixed         [X]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front-end fee: 1%
Financing plan (US$ M):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
Central Government                                         228.1                -              228.1
Hunan Provincial Government                                199.3                -              199.3
Hubei Provincial Government                                174.6                -              174.6
IBRD                                                         -                350.0            350.0
Total         602.0              350.0            952.0
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Hunan and Hubei Provincial Communication Departments
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$ M):   2000    2001      2002     2003    2004    2005
Annual    33        92         92       87       36       10
Cumulative     33      125       217       304      340      350
Project implementation period:  5 years 9 months (October 1999-June 2005)
Expected effectiveness date:   October 1999
Expected closing date:          December 2005



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 2                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The aim of the proposed Fourth National Highway (NH4) Project is to increase economic activity along the
Wuhan-Changsha high-priority transport corridor through relieving congestion, facilitating trade and mobility
and helping increase efficiency and traffic safety in Northern Hunan and Southern Hubei.
The proposed project would have the following objectives:
(a) relieve traffic congestion and improve the mobility and integration of inter-provincial trade and
commerce between Hunan and Hubei Provinces by assisting in the development of a key section of
China's National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) in the principal Beijing-Zhuhai corridor;
(b) strengthen highway institutional capacity at the Hunan and Hubei Provincial Communications
Departments (HPCD) and related sector institutions, through policy and institutional reform, provision
of training, technical assistance and equipment, in planning, finance, design, construction, operation
and maintenance of highway networks;
(c) develop and sustain a policy dialogue in the two key policy areas of the commercialization and
corporatization of provincial toll road authorities and of province-wide highway maintenance
management; and
(d) improve the safety of road transport.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Countiy Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16321-CHA   Date of latest CAS discussion: March 18, 1997 and Progress
Report (R98-107), May 28, 1998.
A major objective of the CAS is to alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks. This, among other infrastructure
sectors, also applies to China's highway sector and specifically to the construction of the NTHS. By
implementing the Wuhan-Changsha Expressway as part of the NTHS, the proposed project would contribute
directly to removing highway bottlenecks, facilitating inter-provincial trade and commerce, and promoting
long-distance highway transport between the capital cities of Hubei and Hunan Provinces and beyond.
The Wuhan-Changsha Expressway is the central element of the much larger Beijing-Zhuhai Expressway
Corridor (Jing-Zhu) which, with a total length of some 2,500 km, constitutes China's highest priority highway
investment. The Bank is already heavily involved in the financing of several other high priority sections in
this corridor through the First, Second and Third National Highway Projects which are all ongoing and
progressing well.
Since expressway construction between Wuhan and Shanghai and between Changsha and Guangzhou is
already partially completed and partially still ongoing, the NH4 project region of Northern Hunan and
Southern Hubei would in the near future become well connected to fast growing coastal areas with their deep-
water ports by high-grade highways. This will in tum help alleviate growing income disparities between
interior and coastal provinces, through improved access to those coastal port cities and increased integration of
Hunan and Hubei into the world trading system by contributing more to Chinese imports and exports.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 3                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
China's strong economic growth has resulted in high growth in transport demand and a rapid shift toward
highway transport. However, China has historically underinvested in transport and its road network ranks
among the sparsest in the world relative to geographic area or population and is quite unsafe. Few inter-
provincial expressways are in existence today and about 20 percent of rural communities have no all-weather
vehicular access. Governments at all levels have embarked on a major highway investment and improvement
program.
At the central level, the basic strategy is to develop a National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) for the
exclusive use of motorized vehicles, giving priority to two north-south and two east-west corridors and to
corridors serving border areas and cross-border trade. The Ministry of Communications (MOC) has been
developing the NTHS, consisting of 12 inter-provincial trunk expressways, spanning China and totaling some
35,000 km. The Bank is heavily involved in the construction of substantial sections of the NTHS. At the
provincial and local levels, the strategy is to concentrate on road network maintenance and the expansion and
improvement of provincial and rural road networks, currently totaling about 1.26 million km, to provide
greater mobility and to stimulate socioeconomic development.
On the road transport policy agenda, growing attention is being paid to removing administrative and physical
barriers to inter-provincial trade and commerce, and to a redefinition of government's role in transport in light
of rapid administrative decentralization and growing non-state sector involvement. MOC needs to be further
strengthened to carry out its reform mandate in matters such as finance, and standards of planning, design and
operation of the NTHS. Provincial, municipal and county governments are expected to continue to mobilize
most investment resources required, including access to private investment and capital markets, and to seek
greater expenditure and system efficiency through improved highway planning and investment strategies, as
well as to modernize maintenance capacity and improve cost recovery. Local governments are also expected
to further the development of the road user services and road construction industries through deregulation and
promotion of competition, access to modem technology and better management.
The Bank prepared a report (No. 11819-CHA dated February 1994), "CHINA - Highway Development and
Management Issues, Options and Strategies", which provides recommendations for action in the foregoing
areas and which have formed the basis for Bank Group assistance in the sector. The Bank, jointly with MOC
held a high-level highway policy seminar in Beijing during May 6-7, 1997, to discuss the major highway
policy areas to be addressed in the Bank's future lending program for highways. These are: (1) planning and
prioritization of the highway network; (2) highway finance comprising public and private sources; (3)
maintenance of highways; (4) highway safety; and (5) operation of the highway network with emphasis on
high-grade highways. In addition to the Bank and MOC, this seminar was attended by Ministry of Finance
(MOF), State Development and Planning Commission (SDPC), the China Road Association (for highway
safety), selected provinces, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund of Japan (OECF), which are also key participants in the highway sector in China. A one-day follow-up
seminar was held on May 6,1998.
Furthermore, the Bank, in cooperation with MOF and MOC is presently reviewing the effectiveness of past
and present World Bank-financed technical assistance in the highway sector with a view to assist the
government and the Bank in establishing a new policy and strategy framework for the Bank's future lending in
the sector. A workshop to discuss results and future directions is being scheduled for July 8-9, 1999. Also, the
Bank's Operations and Evaluation Department (OED) has recently completed and published an evaluation of
World Bank assistance to the transport sector in China which, inter alia, contains a detailed assessment of the
performance of Bank-funded highway projects as well as a well thought-out set of recommendations for the
future highway sector policy dialogue. OED's assessment of past and ongoing Bank highway lending and
non-lending services is positive and it recommends a reorientation of future lending and non-lending activities



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 4                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
towards broader Bank involvement in institutional and policy reform. As part of the NH4 appraisal review, a
Regional Operations Committee (ROC) meeting was held on February 28, 1999 which also discussed broader
China highway sector issues. The ROC meeting agreed that the China highway team would prepare a China
Strategic Highway Framework paper as part of the FY2000 economic and sector work (ESW) program.
Annexes 6 and 7 contain pertinent information on China's evolving highway program and financing issues,
and Bank involvement and achievements in China's highway sector, respectively.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The two recent Bank reviews, i.e. OED's China transport sector evaluation of World Bank assistance
conducted during most of 1997-98 and EASTR's internal review of China highway TA conducted during late
1998 and early 1999, have identified as key sector issues which would also be addressed by the proposed
project the following: (a) expansion of highway capacity to remove bottlenecks and expedite socio-economic
development; (b) highway safety; (c) highway maintenance; and (d) commercialization and corporatization of
high-grade highways.
(a) Highway Capacity Expansion. China's 9FYP (1996-2000) emphasizes a reduction in transport
bottlenecks that are now being recognized as a growing constraint to rapid economic development. The
diversification and structural transformation of the economy, toward more light and agro-industry and more
interprovincial trade, coupled with severe capacity constraints of the railways, are causing an accelerating
demand for road transport. This national pattern also applies to the two project provinces of Hubei and Hunan,
and in particular to the heavily traveled north-south transport corridor along National Road (NR) 107 between
Beijing and Shenzhen, the spine of the densely populated and economically dynamic eastern part of China.
This corridor, the location of the new Beijing-Zhuhai (Jing-Zhu) Expressway, linking the north and south of
China, crosses the city of Beijing and the provinces of Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, and Guangdong over a
distance of approximately 2,500 km and has the highest priority among the 12 national trunk routes in the
NTHS. Once completed, it will connect Beijing with Guangdong's fast growing Pearl River Delta, Hong
Kong and Macao.
The Bank is already heavily involved in the construction of substantial sections of Jing-Zhu expressway,
between Beijing and Guangzhou (see IBRD map 29904). Under the ongoing National Highway (NH1)
Project, two important sections have recently been completed in southern Hebei and northern Henan
provinces. Under the Second National Highway (NH2) Project, two priority sections in northern Guangdong
and southern Hunan are being undertaken and are progressing well. Under the Third National Highway (NH3)
Project several important expressway sections are being undertaken in northern and central Hubei province
and are at an early stage of construction. Finally, the newly proposed Fourth National Highway (NH4) Project
will cover two important expressway sections in northern Hunan and southern Hubei. These four National
Highway Projects constitute a well thought-out and well balanced series of investment operations, which assist
the Government of China (GOC) and the concerned provinces in the timely completion of China's highest-
priority expressway corridor.
Annex 2 contains details of Hunan's and Hubei's Highway Sector Revenue and Expenditure Programs for the
ongoing 9th Five Year Plan (9FYP - 1996/2000) and the coming 10th Five Year Plan (IOFYP - 2001/2005)
periods.
(b) Highway Safety. Traffic accidents are nIow a major problem in China, and by most measures it has the
world's highest road accident rate. In recent years, the Bank, as well as ADB and other institutions, have
become increasingly concerned about growing problems of highway safety. In Hunan and Hubei, road safety
activities have been initiated under NH2 and NH3 projects, respectively. These activities are concentrating on
institutional improvements, training, accident data collection and analysis, and the identification and selected
implementation of physical measures to remedy these accident "black spots". The road safety activities



Project Appraisal Document                Page 5                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
initiated under the NH2 and NH3 projects are intended to be continued and extended under the NH4 project.
The basic strategy for integrating road safety as an important component in World Bank highway projects is to
create a higher level of awareness and understanding among sector agencies and their officials about the road
safety situation. This will be achieved through the activities agreed earlier under the NH2 and NH3 projects,
i.e. safety seminars, safety at road works, safety in highway design, and identification and treatment of "black
spots". The next step would be to deepen the know-how and the understanding gained among officials
concerned and involved in the process. This would mainly be carried out by: (i) training activities which
would be based on the results of studies carried out in the first phase (NH2 and NH3); and (ii) the systematic
introduction of simple short and medium term road safety measures in the daily routine work of highway
sector employees ( e.g. checklists).
These measures would be linked to road improvement and maintenance works. Therefore, as a complement, a
study would be carried out under NH4, defining the most cost-effective safety related measures (low cost)
within the field of road improvement and maintenance. The study should result in a number of accident
prevention measures related to road improvement and maintenance activities. These could serve as good
examples of actions that will improve the road safety situation, and serve as guidance in supervision of the
road network. The examples from the study should be analyzed in detail and well documented so that they
could easily be understood and applied in the daily maintenance work of the road agencies. The following
step would be the design of a long term road safety program with road sector activities to be coordinated with
activities of other organizations involved in the road safety improvement process such as the traffic police,
rescue services, schools, etc. However, this step needs an improved cooperation over administrative
boundaries in Hunan and Hubei and could, possibly, at least in its initial stage, be carried out under NH4.
(c) Highway Maintenance. To improve and modernize highway maintenance management, the PCD in both
provinces would proceed with the implementation of the results from the two highway maintenance
management studies that are being carried out under NH2 and NH3 in Hunan and Hubei, respectively. The
focus would be on those parts of the studies which are interrelated with other ongoing development processes
under the NH2-NH3-NH4 projects; i.e. development of road and traffic information systems, such as Road
Data Bank (RDB), Pavement Management System (PMS) and Bridge Maintenance System (BMS). The
overall objective is to create efficient maintenance organizations in Hunan and Hubei, adjusted to modem
management philosophy and using modem know-how and technology. The two Leading Groups, which were
established in 1997 in Hunan and Hubei and which are managing the studies under NH2 and NH3 would also
be in charge of the overall implementation process under NH4. The implementation phase will commence in
the beginning of 2000, or as soon as the two studies will be completed. Implementation of some of the major
activities which have been brought forward in the studies would lay a good foundation for efficient
maintenance organizations and management systems in the two provinces. However, it is equally important to
continue the development in a longer term perspective because the development strategy involves many
collaborating organizations and staff in the transport sectors of Hunan and Hubei.
Recent experience from other (including developed) countries which have gone through the same process
shows that it takes between 8 and 10 years to change the management system of road agencies. This is mainly
due to the fact that the implementation has to go hand in hand with education, training, purchasing of
equipment and the adaptation of existing systems and techniques to new demands. Under NH4, Maintenance
Cost and Fund Allocation studies would be carried out in Hunan and Hubei in order to find a suitable system
(a Policy) for allocation of funds for road maintenance. The first step would be to define the lowest acceptable
maintenance standard level for each class of the road network. A cost per kilometer of road would be
identified in order to reach the defined minimum level. This would make it possible to optimize the fund
distribution on various administrative levels (Provincial, County and City) considering demands from society's
point of view. The studies are closely related to the Highway Maintenance Management studies under NH2
and NH3. Therefore, they will be integrated as a part of that work. These studies would take advantage of the
Highway Design and Maintenance (HDM-4) model, which recently has been developed by initiative of the



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 6                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
World Bank and other research institutions. The studies would: (a) review the institutional arrangements,
policies and procedures for highway maintenance, consistent with the economic reform process; (b) identify
expenditures required to maintain the existing road network, taking budget constraints into consideration; and
(c) formulate and prioritize multi-year highway maintenance programs for the IOFYP period in Hunan and
Hubei.
(d) Highway Commercialization and Corporatization. China is presently accelerating the construction of
high-grade toll highways to the extent that by early 2000, it is likely to exceed 10,000 km of expressways. All
of these roads are new constructions and, as revenue-generating infrastructure assets, lend themselves to more
commercialized and corporatized forms of operation and management. This general trend towards the
commercialization and corporatization of toll roads which is already well advanced in coastal provinces such
as Guangdong and others also applies to Hunan and Hubei provinces where it is in an early stage of
deliberation. To improve and modernize high-grade highway management, the Provincial Communications
Departments (PCDs) in both provinces would proceed with the implementation of the results from the two toll
highway commercialization and corporatization studies that are being carried out under NH2 and NH3 in
Hunan and Hubei, respectively. The overall objective is to create efficient high-grade highway organizations
in Hunan and Hubei, adjusted to modem management philosophy and using modem know-how and
technology. The two Leading Groups, which were established in 1997 in Hunan and Hubei and which are
managing the two studies under NH2 and NH3 would also be in charge of the overall implementation process.
The implementation phase will commence in the beginning of 2000, or as soon as the two studies will be
completed. Implementation of some of the major activities which have been brought forward in the studies
would lay a good foundation for efficient high-grade highway organization and management systems in the
two provinces. Organizational and ownership forms envisioned that are being analyzed in the NH12 and NH3
studies, are either public corporations ("provincial toll road authorities") or forms of public-private
partnerships adjusted to Chinese conditions. Recent experience from other (specifically developed) countries
which have gone through the same process shows that it takes a substantial amount of time to establish and
make operational such corporations and to change the management style and systems of traditional road
agencies. This is mainly due to the fact that the implementation has to go hand in hand with education,
training, purchasing of equipment and the adaptation of existing systems and techniques to the new demands.



Project Appraisal Document                             Page 7                            Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 3 for a detailed description and Annex 8 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project would include:
Cost Incl.
Contingencies               Bank-financing   % of Bank-
Component              Category     (US$M)        % of Total      ('LS$)       financing
Component 1. Construction of      Physical-
expressway and interconnecting roads  Institutional
1.1 Construction of TCE in Hunan;                438.2          46.0           180.7          41
1.2 Construction of ZTE in Hubei;                349.0          36.7           126.4           36
1.3 Interconnecting roads in Hunan;               19.6           2.1            8.9            45
1.4 Interconnecting and other roads in
Hubei;                                            43.4           4.6            12.1           28
1.5 Equipment                                     10.0           1.1            8.9            89
1.6 Construction supervision services             22.8           2.4            7.1            31
Component 2. Institutional        Institutional-
Strengthening and Capacity Building   Policy       4.9           0.5            2.4            49
2.1 Studies/technical assistance in
Highway Maintenance Management,
Transport and Trade Integration,
Expressway Commercialization and
Corporatization; and Road Safety
2.2 Staff training programs, covering all
aspects of highway planning, design,
construction, operation, finance and
maintenance.
Component 3. Front-end Fee                         3.5           0.4            3.5           100
Component 4-Land acquisition and    Implementat
resettlement                      ion support     60.6           6.4            0.0            0
Total          952.0          100.0          350            37
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
In line with principal OED recommendations as outlined by its 1999 China highway sector evaluation, the
proposed project would focus on key policy and institutional reforms as described below. These have been
developed and agreed with the Hunan and Hubei PCDs during a series of preappraisal and appraisal missions
during 1998-99 which coincided with the timing of the OED review and enabled early OED feedback for
incorporation into the NH4 project design. To that effect, OED' s staff member who was Task Manager for the
China Transport Sector Evaluation served as a peer reviewer for the NH4 project. Also, the NH4 operation is
the successor project to NH2 in Hunan and NH3 in Hubei. The policy and institutional reform elements as
proposed under NH4 would build on earlier agreements reached with the Hunan and Hubei PCDs during NH2
and NH3 preparation. NH2 became effective on 11/24/1997 and implementation of the policy and institutional
reform components as well as road traffic safety initiatives is underway. NH3 became effective on 9/11/1998
and policy and institutional reform components as well as road traffic safety initiatives have started. The Bank
has also conducted a two-day policy workshop with the Hubei and Hunan PCDs in Wuhan in November 1997



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 8                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
which helped identify major reform areas for NH4. Annex 4 to the PAD contains the details of the Policy and
Institutional Reform Programs as agreed with the two PCDs while Annex S contains the details of the Road
Traffic Safety Programs that have also been agreed during appraisal and loan negotiations.
Institutional and Policy Development Plans: Under NH12 and NH3 projects in Hunan and Hubei,
respectively, institutional analyses of the two HPCDs and each of their subordinate units were carried out.
These analyses were reviewed and refined during N1H4 preparation. This effort has resulted in draft
Development Plans comprising planned institutional development activities such as organizational changes,
the development of new systems and the purchase of equipment. The Institutional and Policy Development
Plans cover a 6 year period and are the basis for activities under NH2 and NH4 projects in Hunan and NH3
and NH4 projects in Hubei. The main purpose of the plans is to ensure that institutional and policy activities
which are related to each other are adequately coordinated and that the role of each organization is properly
reflected in the development process. There are three important areas which can be regarded as new
competencies where modem thinking and know-how to a great extent are still lacking in Hunan's and Hubei's
road administrations. These areas are road safety, quality control and environmental protection and they (or
their lack) will have a direct effect on the overall quality of the NH2, NH3 and NH4 projects. It was agreed
during NH4 appraisal and confirmed at negotiations that the Hunan and Hubei development plans would be
updated and reviewed annually with the Bank.
Competition in the Highway Sector: To increase the efficiency of the highway sector, there is a need to use
the power of competition. Competition will affect both the competing contractors outside the Highway
Administration in Hunan and Hubei and the force account units within the Highway Administration. Different
strategies have been suggested for the two Provinces to benefit from experiences to be gained during the
change processes. In Hunan Province a stepwise process has been agreed as follows: (a) creating competition
within HPCD, by establishing a number of internal maintenance "companies" and giving them both manpower
and equipment needed. These "companies" would bid in competition on various maintenance contracts within
a specified area of the road network; (b) successful "companies" will earn more money than the less successful
ones; (c) after a certain period of time, the most successful "companies" would become independent
companies and establish themselves in the market. In Hubei Province the process would be as follows: (a) an
identification study would be carried out to identify the organizations outside the Highway Administration
which possibly, in the near future, could become a competent partner for carrying out maintenance work; (b)
after having analyzed the list of such organizations a decision would be made on the competent companies; (c)
a test in a limited test area would be carried out to compare the cost as well as the results of the work carried
out by contractors with similar work carried out by force account units.
Maintenance Cost and Fund Allocation Framework: Under NH4 a Maintenance Cost and Fund Allocation
framework for the Hunan and Hubei PCDs will be developed to establish a suitable system (a Policy) for
allocation of funds for road maintenance. The first step would be to define the lowest acceptable maintenance
standard level for each class of the road network. A cost per kilometer of road should be identified in order to
reach the defined minimum level. This would make it possible to optimize the fund distribution on various
administrative levels (Provincial, Prefecture and City) considering demands from society's point of view. This
TA is closely related to the Highway Maintenance Studies under NH2 in Hunan and NH3 in Hubei; therefore
it will be integrated as a part of that ongoing work. This TA would take advantage of the HDM model which
has been developed through initiative of the World Bank.
Commercialized Toll Road Corporations: Two high-grade highway commercialization and corporatization
studies (one in each Province) are being carried out under the NH2 and NH3 projects in Hunan and Hubei,
respectively and constitute the first steps in assisting the PCDs in developing modem thinking in how to
finance and manage their new expressways and also analyze the longer-term options available in financing,
managing and organizing their high-grade highway corporations. This task would help design modem
organizations in compliance with international standards of financial management and ensure that toll revenues



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 9                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
are properly collected and managed and that expenditures (both for new investment and for adequate
maintenance) are well planned. The studies under NH2 and NH3 are being managed by Provincial Leading
Groups established in 1997. Once confirmation from MOC is obtained that the result of the studies are in
compliance with MOC requirements, implementation would be undertaken during NH4.
Road and Traffic Information Systems: The basic prerequisite for all modern management of roads is the
information base about the actual status of the road networks, its traffic and its environment. This information
is used on a day by day basis both for planning, construction and maintenance activities, and for monitoring
and evaluation of works carried out. This information is normally stored in a Computerized Data Bank (Road
Data Bank, RDB). Without this easily accessible information it would not be rational to have other
management systems such as PMS and BMS developed. Under the NH2 and NH3 projects two studies were
initiated on Highway Maintenance Management. These studies will also cover the development needs of PMS
and BMS. These two systems are directly interrelated with the Road Data Bank as they receive input data
from the RDB. Past experience from other countries has clearly shown that it is feasible to build up in a
stepwise fashion an Information System based on a Road Data Bank (RDB).
Hunan-Hubei Transport and Trade Integration: A Hunan-Hubei Transport and Trade Integration
(regional economics) TA would be jointly executed under NH4 by Hunan and Hubei Communication
Departments. This TA would examine the long-term transport and trade integration effects in the expressway
corridor between Changsha and Wuhan. This will be a direct continuation of the TA that is presently being
carried out by Guangdong Province in the corridor between Hong Kong/Macao-Guangzhou-Changsha under
the ongoing NH2 project which is connecting the inland province of Hunan to the highly economically active
Pearl River Delta in Guangdong, a coastal province. Once the Guangzhou-Changsha expressway under NH2
is completed, the long-distance movement of freight and passengers will no longer be dependent on the much
overloaded railway link. The completion of the Wuhan - Changsha expressway will help to foster faster
economic growth in the affected provinces and promote economic integration of areas along the expressway
corridor. The TA would also analyze the advantages of the various transport modes in an inter-modal
transport framework and their impact on regional economics and development.
Road Traffic Safety: In Hunan and Hubei, the road safety activities have been initiated under NH2 and NH3,
respectively.  These activities are concentrating on institutional improvements, training, accident data
collection and analysis. The identification and implementation of physical steps under NH4 would be to
spread the know-how and what is being developed under NH2 and NH3 projects out into Prefecture and City
levels where most of the operational work is carried out and where most of the traffic accidents happen.
Further development as regards the road safety area under NH4 concerns the accident information system.
The accident information system which is with the Public Security Bureau (the Traffic Police) needs to be
further developed and modernized in order to be able to serve the main purposes for road safety work in a
broader perspective.
3. Benefits and target population:
The major quantifiable benefits of the project are the reduction on vehicle operating costs and time costs of
road users. The expressways will have shorter lengths, improved surface conditions and riding comfort,
improved geometry, reduced traffic interference, and better safety facilities than the existing roads. Therefore,
most of the long-distance traffic and some of the local traffic is expected to divert from the existing roads to
the new expressways, reducing the vehicle operating and time costs for the future expressway users. Because
many users will take the expressways, there will be a reduction in the current congestion levels on the existing
roads. Thus, traffic that continues to use the existing roads will also benefit in the form of time savings due to
the resulting higher travel speeds on the existing roads. Other quantified project benefits are due to the traffic
that is generated as a result of the lowering of transport costs and which previously did not exist on the existing
roads or is existing on other transport modes such as rail, inland water and air. The newly generated traffic



Project Appraisal Document                Page 10                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
includes traffic resulting from increased industrial and agricultural production. Other project benefits that have
not been quantified are the generated traffic on the existing roads due to the reduction of the current congestion
levels, and the positive effects on non-motorized traffic that uses the existing roads. The total affected
population in the expressway corridor between Wuhan and Changsha in an indirect sense is estimated at about
40 million (based on 1997 data), about 22 million people living in northern Hunan and about 18 million people
living in southern Hubei.
Other benefits which are non-quantifiable, would include strengthening the capabilities in both provinces,
through policy and institutional reforms, of all the agencies and their related institutions which are responsible
for the planning, design, financing, supervision, construction, operation and maintenance of highways in
Hunan and Hubei. Also, the project is expected to result in lower traffic accident rates on the highway
network through the implementation of the traffic safety component in both provinces. Furthermore, the
proposed project should lead to improvements in the quality of construction of highways through the
continuing introduction of improved technology and stricter arrangements for supervision of construction. The
project would also foster improved practices, in both provinces, in the areas of the environment, land
acquisition and resettlement of affected people and participatory approaches to project preparation and
implementation.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 5 years 9 months, from October 1999 to June 2005. (Annex 10)
Executing agencies: In Hunan, the Hunan Provincial Communications Department (HPCD) has overall
responsibility for project preparation and implementation. Under HPCD, Hunan Provincial Expressway
Construction and Development Corporation (HPECDC) will be the executing agency for the Tucheng (Hubei
border) - Changsha Expressway (TCE) section. To strengthen the management of the project, HPECDC has
established a Tucheng Expressway Construction and Development Branch Corporation, to be specifically
responsible for the preparation and implementation of the TCE section.
In Hubei, the Hubei Provincial Communications Department (HPCD) has overall responsibility for project
preparation and implementation. A special World Bank Finance Project Office (WBFPO) and an Expressway
Construction Directorate (including the Chief Supervision Engineer's Office), both under HPCD have been
created for the preparation and implementation of the World Bank-financed highway (NH3 and NH4) projects.
They will be executing agency for the Zhengdian-Tucheng Expressway (ZTE).
Both the Hunan and Hubei project offices are staffed with sufficient and qualified manpower that is already
being strengthened under the ongoing NH2 project in Hunan and the NH3 project in Hubei.
Procurement: The Intemational Tendering Company in Hubei and the China Communications Import &
Export Corporation for civil works and the CMC International Tendering Co. for E&M works in Hunan have
been retained as the procurement agencies for all aspects of civil, electrical and mechanical works of the
project requiring ICB and for equipment to be procured from abroad. The supervision of construction of the
TCE and ZTE would be carried out by two joint foreign/domestic supervision teams, one each in Hunan and
Hubei. As per Bank requirements, detailed Procurement Capacity Assessments were conducted by Bank
procurement staff in Hunan and Hubei as part of NH4 project preparation and procurement capacities in the
two provinces were found to be satisfactory. The two provinces are already successfully implementing Bank-
financed highway projects. The Procurement Capacity Assessment reports (dated April 1999) are on file and
are available on request.
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): Overall direction of the project at the central level rests with the
Ministry of Communications (MOC) in Beijing. The Bank loan would be given to the PRC (through MOF)
which in turn would onlend the proceeds to the two provinces on the same conditions as the Bank loan.



Project Appraisal Document                Page II                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Consequently, there would be a loan agreement with the PRC and a project agreement with Hunan and Hubei.
Similar to what is being done in ongoing highway projects in China, all project accounts, special accounts, and
all statements of expenditures will be audited by the National Audit Office.
Financial management: Similar to the situation in on-going Bank-financed highway projects in China, the
Hunan and Hubei Provinces have the systems and staff in place to carry out adequate financial management of
the project. Both Provinces will use "Accounting Standards Applicable to State-owned Construction Project
(the "Standards") issued by MOF as a basis for bookkeeping and preparation of financial statements and
management reports. Both Provinces have ongoing Bank-financed projects and their Provincial Finance
Bureaus are well familiar with Bank procedures. In accordance with Bank OP/BP 10.02 and the Guide for
Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting System for World Bank projects, the task team undertook
and completed Financial Management System assessments in Hunan and Hubei provinces which have been
cleared by the Bank. The results of these assessments are contained in Annex 15 of the PAD "Financial
Management".
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The Foreign Investment Audit Department of
the National Audit Office (NAO) would be responsible for auditing the project expenditures. Actual audits
would be carried out for NAO by the Hubei and Hunan Branches of NAO or the Hubei and Hunan Provincial
Audit Bureaus. In the case of the SOEs, the audit reports would contain a separate opinion by the auditors as
to whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and intemal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. The Bank Group
currently accepts NAO audits for this purpose.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The project would be supervised through Bank missions whose
frequency would be guided by the progress of the works and the studies/TA. However, on average, a mission
at about six to nine-month intervals would be mounted, depending on the stage of project implementation.
The initial implementation stage of a China highway project usually requires a higher supervision intensity
than the later stages when expressway construction and study/TA activities are fully underway or nearing
completion. In addition to field missions, staff input would be provided at headquarters and RMC for project-
related activities comprising, inter alia, supervision reports, procurement documentation and contracts, staff
training and equipment, and follow-up and review of the agreed studies and TA activities, as well as for efforts
related to coordination between the two project provinces. Moreover, the Bank would monitor progress of
implementation of all project components through semi-annual progress reports to be submitted to the Bank
independently by Hubei and Hunan PCDs on their respective project components. In addition, both PCDs
would submit to the Bank monthly reports on works progress for ZTE and TCE. It is estimated that over the
implementation period of the project, the total time expended on supervision would be in the order of 120
person-weeks.
During implementation, project performance, including the achievement of physical targets and attainment of
policy and institutional objectives, will be monitored by both PCDs through the use of annual monitoring
reports. The first annual monitoring report would be submitted by January 31, 2001 and the last by January
31, 2006. In addition, upon completion, the project will be reviewed in an Implementation Completion
Report, to be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the closing date of the loan.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The proposed expressway between Wuhan and Changsha, with a length of about 300 km, is the central
element of the much longer Beijing-Zhuhai expressway which has a length of about 2,500 km. Since 1992,
the Bank is actively assisting China through the NHI, NH2 and NH3 projects which are all located in the



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 12                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Beijing-Zhuhai corridor, helping China build several other expressway sections in Hebei, Henan, Hubei,
Hunan and Guangdong. The Bank has already committed loan funds under NH1, NH2 and NH3 amounting to
more than US$1.0 billion. Beijing-Zhuhai is China's highest priority expressway corridor which is scheduled
for completion by 2003/4. In its 1994 highway sector strategy paper, the Bank fully supports construction of
the NTHS and specifically the "two vertical and two horizontal" expressway corridors of which Beijing-
Zhuhai forns one of the two verticals.
The Wuhan-Changsha expressway section, once completed and open to traffic, will - to a small extent only -
be in competition with the existing Wuhan-Changsha railway line which itself is part of the much longer
Beijing-Guangzhou railway connection. This railway has a two track capacity and is presently utilized at near
equal shares for both freight and passenger services. After the recent restructuring of the Bank's Seventh
Railway Project which was approved by the Board on January 26, 1999, the Wuhan to Guangzhou railway
section will soon be electrified and will in future primarily be utilized for faster passenger service while more
freight will be shifted to the new - but more distant - parallel Beijing-Kowloon line. Electrification of the
Wuhan - Changsha subsection is scheduled for completion by the end of 2000. Given the fast growing
demand for passenger and freight services between Beijing and Guangzhou/Hong Kong of which Wuhan and
Changsha is a sub-corridor, there is little risk of ending up with overcapacity in transport infrastructure, once
the expressway and the electrified railway line are completed and in operation. Competition between the
expressway and the railway, to the small extent it will materialize, will generate cheaper and more efficient
passenger and freight services, in that tolls on the expressway and tariffs on the railway will be kept lower and
will force the railway as well as trucking and busing operators to offer more reliable and efficient services.
Detailed feasibility studies conducted by the Hunan and Hubei PCDs for the NH4 project and verified by the
Bank's task team have shown that those passenger and freight market segments which will either use the new
expressway or remain on the improved railway are substantially different. Rail transport in China, for
passenger and freight services is of substantially longer trip length than road transport (for details see para. 8 in
Annex 12).
Private sector development and financing for the Wuhan-Changsha expressway, or parts thereof, was
considered and discussed in great length with SDPC, MOF, MOC and the Hunan and Hubei PCDs over an
extended period of time. It was discarded for a number of reasons:
(i) China is still developing an appropriate policy, legal and regulatory framework for the private provision of
toll highways. Work in this area has been ongoing for several years, with Bank and IFC support and has led to
a provisional BOT law/decree for private infrastructure projects but this law/decree has still not been approved
by the State Council. At the recent request of SDPC, the Bank Group is presently in the process of
undertaking a new BOT/private infrastructure TA which, inter alia, will review, and recommend
improvements, to China's existing BOT framework. The Bank Group team which is coordinated by the China
department consists of experts from IFC, FIAS and PPI in PSD;
(ii) An earlier BOT pilot project in the highway sector, the Junshan Yangtze bridge at Wuhan which was part
of the NH3 project and was prepared with Bank support for private financing did not obtain State Council
approval for BOT treatment and is now being built with public sector resources;
(iii) There is growing evidence on a worldwide scale that greenfield toll road projects are difficult to develop
and finance from private sector sources, due to the risk profile of such projects. Besides the country risk (legal
and regulatory) and the commercial risk (traffic demand), there are substantial construction and completion
risks which most private toll road developers and their commercial lenders are not prepared to accept. Many
private toll road projects around the world (e.g. Dulles Greenway in Virginia; M1/15 Motorways in Hungary,
among others) which have been built during the 1990s are failing to generate sufficient revenues to enable
timely debt service and therefore need complex restructuring, often connected with substantial government



Project Appraisal Document                Page 13                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
bailouts (e.g. Mexican toll road program where some 52 private sector concessions failed and were taken over
by the central government at a cost of US$8 billion);
(vi) The International Trade and Investment Corporation (ITIC) crisis in China will make it more difficult for
provincial and municipal governments to obtain foreign loan financing for large-scale infrastructure projects,
including toll highways. The Changsha BOT pilot power plant in Hunan which is one of SDPC's original
BOT pilot projects is presently unable to reach financial closure with the British developer National Power
(who has won the concession) due to the unavailability of sufficient long-term foreign commercial debt
financing.
In Hunan, the alignment of the Wuhan-Changsha Expressway was selected after comparison of many
alternatives. The upgrading of the existing class 2 highway (NRI07) to expressway standard would not be
feasible due to the mix of traffic, crossing of urban areas and poor geometrical characteristics. In addition, the
aligmnent of the existing highway is not direct and, therefore, implies a greater length of the road. The chosen
alignment was selected after comparison of two major alternatives, one passing near the city of Yueyang and
using the existing class 2 highway, and another more direct one passing Yueyang in the east. After
comparison, the alignment located in the east of Yueyang was chosen. The city of Yueyang will be connected
through a 16-km long new class I highway. The proposed alternative is the best compromise from technical,
economical, environmental and resettlement points of view. In the south the alignment links to the existing
Changsha-Xiangtan expressway section which was ADB financed and is open to traffic. Near this connecting
point, it crosses a development zone of Changsha city, and this crossing also required a good coordination with
the Changsha city authorities which HPCD achieved with Bank assistance.
At the Hunan/Hubei border it connects to the Hubei expressway at Tucheng. This connecting point at the
border was selected after comparison of several alternatives involving both provinces. The alignment, toll
stations, rest and service areas and interchanges near the border were designed with a good coordination
between the two provinces.
In Hubei, the alignment of the Wuhan-Changsha Expressway was selected after comparison of four major
alternatives. Two alternatives located in the west of the selected one, although they were more direct, were
discarded due to the crossing of an extensive flood area of the Yangtze river These two alignment options
would require long viaducts and high embankments and could possibly modify negatively conditions for
future flooding of the Yangtze river. A third alternative located in the east of the chosen one was rejected
because it increased too much the length of the expressway without providing clear advantages. The chosen
alignment is parallel to the existing NR107 (a narrow two-lane road) and is located to the west of it. The
alignment was adjusted in order to reduce the impacts on environment and to decrease the number of project
affected people. The main cities, Xianning and Puqi, will be well served by the chosen alignment. In the
north, the aligmnent links to the NH3 project at Zhengdian interchange, connecting the new expressway to
Beijing, Chengdu in Sichuan province and Shanghai.



Project Appraisal Document                             Page 14                             Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Latest Supervision
(Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
S   Implementation     Development
Progress         Objective
(IP)             (DO)
Bank-financed
- Remove Highway         Highway Project (completed) 1, 2*                                           S                 S
Capacity               Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway (completed) 1-6                           S                 S
Bottlenecks (1)        Sichuan Provincial Highway (completed) 1, 2, 6.                             S                 S
- Institutional          Shaanxi Provincial Highway (completed) 1-3, 6                               S                 S
Strengthening/         Jiangxi Provincial Highway (completed) 1, 2, 6                              U                 s
Training (2)           Shandong Provincial Highway (completed) 1, 2, 4, 6                          S                 S
- Rural Roads and        Jiangsu Provincial Transport (completed) 1-3, 6                              S                S
Poverty            .  Zhejiang Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1-3, 6                                 S                 S
Alleviation (3)        Guangdong Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1-4, 6                               S                 S
- Highway Safety (4)     Henan Highway (ongoing) 1-3, 6                                              S                 S
- Operation and          Fujian Highway (ongoing) 1, 2,3, 6                                          S                 S
Maintenance of High-    National Highway: Hebei/Henan (ongoing) 1, 2, 5, 6                         S                 S
Grade Highways (5)     Xinjiang Highway (ongoing) 1, 2,4, 6                                        S                 S
- Cost Recovery (6)      Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway (ongoing) 1, 2,4, 6                               S                 S
Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1-4, 6                          S                 S
Second Henan Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1-5, 6                            U                 S
Second Xinjiang Highway (ongoing) 1, 2, 6                                   S                 S
Second Nat'l Hwy: GuangdongflHunan (ongoing) 1, 2, 4, 5, 6                  S                 S
Third Nat'l Hwy (ongoing): Hubei 1, 2, 4, 5, 6                              S                 S
Tri-Provincial Highway: Gansu/Ningxia/lnner Mongolia (ongoing) 1, 2, 3, 5, 6  S               S
Anhui Provincial Highway (ongoing): 1, 2, 5, 6                              S                 S
Fourth National Highway: Hubei/Hunan (planned) 1, 2, 4, 5, 6
Second Fujian Highway (planned): 1,2,4, 5,6
Third Henan Provincial Highway (planned): 1, 2, 5, 6
Guangxi Provincial Highway (planned): 1, 2, 5, 6
Asian Development Bank
Shenyang-Be-xi Highway (completed)
Yunnan Expressway (completed)
Hunan Expressway (completed)
Julin Expressway (completed)
Heilongiiang Expressway (ongoing)
Yunan Expressway (ongoing)
Hebei and Liaoning Expressway (ongoing)
Chongqing Expressway (ongoing)
Liaoning and Jilin Expressway (ongoing)
Hebei Expressway (ongoing)
Liaoning Expressway (ongoing)
Shenyang-Jinzhou Expressway (ongoing)
Hebei Roads Development (ongoing)
Chengdu-Nanchong Expressway (ongoing)
Changchun-Harbin Expressway (ongoing)
Jiangxi Highway Project (ongoing)
Southem Yunnan Road Development (planned)
Shanxi Expressway (planned)
Chongqing-Guizhou Expressway (planned)
Guangxi Road (planned)
Shanxi and Shaanxi Expressways (planned)
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
Hainan Development
Hefei-Tongling Highway and Tongling Yangtze River Highway Bridge
Construction
Second Chongqing Yangtze River Bridge Construction
Qiqihar Nenjiang River Highway Bridge Construction
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
* The numbers correspond to the sector issues in first column of this tabulation



Project Appraisal Document                Page 15                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Since 1985, the Bank has financed 21 highway projects in China (of which seven have closed), amounting to
more than US$4.0 billion in Bank loans and IDA credits. The Bank has been and remains involved in the
construction of some 2,800 km of toll expressways and other high-grade toll highways and in the
rehabilitation, upgrading and maintenance of some 13,000 km of lower level (specifically rural) roads. In
addition, as revealed during a recent Bank review and assessment of its highway TA, the Bank was and is
involved in more than 50 TA tasks, comprising (i) highway planning and prioritization; (ii) highway finance;
(iii) highway maintenance; (iv) operation and management of high-grade highways; and (v) traffic safety.
Moreover, since mid-1996, the Bank has also given its no-objections to the securitization of Bank-financed
highway assets in China (so-called "asset-based or asset-backed fmancings"), through the issuance of highway
equity of provincial toll road corporations on the Hong Kong and Shenzhen stock exchanges. Annex 6
contains a detailed description of China's evolving highway program and the financing issues it faces while
Annex 7 describes Bank involvement and achievements in China's highway sector to date.
While the overall performance of the Bank's highway projects is by and large satisfactory, a number of
problems have occurred, which have been taken into consideration in the design of the proposed NH4 project.
These problems include: inadequate engineering designs and bid documents including costing of civil works;
quality control of construction; late commencement of electrical and mechanical facilities component (which
has delayed completion of some projects and necessitated the extension of the closing date of several Bank
loans), and some lack in the scope and speed of policy and institutional reforms, specifically relating to road
maintenance, improved high-grade highway management and operation, and traffic safety.
All engineering designs and technical bid documents including cost estimates for the proposed expressways
and related roads, including their E&M facilities, have been reviewed by international engineering consultants
under grant funding from Italy (Hunan) and Spain (Hubei). These technical reviews are complete. The quality
of project engineering has also benefited from the involvement of a French expressway specialist who
participated in all project missions. Quality control of construction, specifically for expressway works will be
undertaken by foreign and domestic supervision consultants, with on average one well trained and experienced
supervisor per km of expressway. The matter will also be addressed through increasing the frequency and
quality of the Bank's supervision, after adding an experienced Chinese construction engineer to the technical
staff at RMC who will also supervise the road works under NH4. Timely completion of the E&M component
will be achieved through stricter control and early commencement of the tendering procedures.
The policy dialogue between China and the Bank in the highway sector needs to be further strengthened.
Although highway lending is substantial, with on average US$500-600 million per year in new highway loans,
resulting in the Bank's considerable impact on the fast expansion in China's road capacity, progress in policy
and institutional reforms (including in road traffic safety) needs to be accelerated. During preparation of the
proposed project substantial efforts were made to engage the Hunan and Hubei PCDs in a continuing policy
dialogue which started with the preparation of NH2 in Hunan and NH3 in Hubei and was taken forward
throughout the preparation of NH4. This was successfully achieved by involving a policy and institutional
expert from the Swedish Road Administration who joined all Bank missions for the NH2, NH3 and NH4
projects, and by conducting a two day highway policy workshop in Wuhan on November 21 and 22, 1997
which brought the senior management of the Hunan and Hubei PCDs together to discuss necessary sector
reforms in Hunan and Hubei. While the results of these efforts are encouraging, in that policy and institutional
reforms now enjoy a higher degree of visibility and ownership with the Hunan and Hubei PCDs, much remains
to be done during implementation of the NH2, NH3 and NH4 projects so as to make policy and institutional
reform components rank on an equal level with road construction and network capacity expansion. The Bank
will develop a more aggressive approach in this area by, for example, staffing project preparation and
supervision missions more regularly with experienced institutional and policy experts and by advancing the
sector policy dialogue more aggressively with MOC through more frequent policy workshops of which the



Project Appraisal Document                Page 16                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
next one is scheduled for July 8 and 9, 1999 in Beijing. More such workshops will be held during FY2000
and FY2001.
There also is a growing concern that adequate funding for highway maintenance is now not being secured to
cover an expanding and more expensive highway system. Previously, this was not a real issue in China;
adequate funding was set aside for this purpose. Two highway maintenance studies that are being carried out
under NH2 in Hunan and NH3 in Hubei as well as two Maintenance Cost and Fund Allocation studies under
NH4 will address the organizational framework and develop sustainable maintenance policies and systems for
the two provinces. The NH2, NH3, and NH4 projects are emphasizing road maintenance as a core area for the
Bank's future policy dialogue in the highway sector with China.
Experience in the area of land acquisition and resettlement has generally been satisfactory in the Bank's
highway projects in China. In this area, it is particularly important that the Bank makes its requirements well
known to the Chinese agencies at an early stage in the preparation of the project. A Bank resettlement
specialist was involved from the beginning in project preparation. The resettlement action plans for the
proposed project were reviewed and cleared by EASES and Legal. Experience in the environmental area in
China has generally been favorable as well. As in the case of resettlement, a Bank environmental specialist
has been involved in project preparation from the beginning. However, more attention needs to be paid to
environmental supervision during construction and to the training of environmental personnel by the Chinese
side. The proposed project will provide an adequate institutional setup and training for such environmental
supervision and training. The quality of the Bank's resettlement and environmental work has also been
strengthened recently, as part of the Bank's decentralization efforts. More of this work will in future be shifted
to RMC due to increasing resident mission capacity in resettlement and environment.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
There is strong commitment and support for the project from the various levels of Government. SDPC, MOF,
MOC and the provincial governments of Hunan and Hubei strongly support the proposed operation. The
Communications Departments in the two provinces show a strong sense of ownership of the project, for both
the physical (construction and equipment) and policy and institutional components. They have completed all
necessary feasibility studies, engineering designs and documentation for policy and institutional work
including organizational development plans and training programs.  They also have completed all
environmental and resettlement analyses and documentation for all road components. Project Implementation
Plans (PIP) have been finalized during project appraisal and were reviewed and reconfirmed at loan
negotiations. The equipment needs are well defined and their procurement arrangements have been agreed
with the Bank. Procurement arrangements for all civil, electrical and mechanical works and for selection of
consultants have also been agreed and reviewed in detail through the Bank's procurement capacity
assessments in both provinces. Both provinces have established project execution offices and provided them
with sufficient and qualified staff including translators as well as necessary office facilities and equipment.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The involvement of the Bank in this operation would result in much needed additional financial resources to
help remove highway bottlenecks between Wuhan and Changsha and increase highway capacity in a high
priority and high density transport corridor between the two provinces. Bank involvement would also
substantially accelerate policy, institutional and manpower reform and development in highway planning,
design, finance, supervision, construction, operation and maintenance. Bank involvement has already
benefited the quality of engineering design and would improve the quality of construction of the roads to be
undertaken. Furthermore, the Bank would help the two provincial communications departments to improve
maintenance of the highway network through introduction of modern maintenance methods, techniques and
equipment, training of staff and a more rational allocation of limited maintenance funds. In addition, it would



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 17                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
help raise the awareness of the highway safety problem and make important improvements in this regard.
Similarly, Bank involvement has already improved and would continue to do so the provincial practices in the
analyses and implementation of environmental, land acquisition and resettlement activities, and participatory
aspects of the proposed operation and future projects.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 17)
1. Economic (supported byAnnex 12).
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=Y 10,879 million at 12% discount rate; EIRR= 26.2%;
The estimated economic internal rate of return (EIRR) is 20.9 percent for ZTE (110 km) in Hubei; 27.9 percent
for TCE (183 km) in Hunan; and 25.2 percent for the entire expressway corridor between Zhengdian (Wuhan)
and Changsha. The EIRR of the entire project civil works (98 percent of total project costs), including the
interconnecting link roads and the other roads program is 26.2 percent. The sensitivity analysis indicates that
if construction costs are increased by 20 percent and user benefits are reduced by 20 percent, the project EIRR
is 20.3 percent, which indicates that even under this pessimistic scenario the project is justified. The switching
values analysis indicates that construction costs have to be multiplied by a factor of 3.14 or user benefits have
to be multiplied by a factor of 0.32 to yield a project EIRR of 12.0 percent. The risk analysis indicates that the
most likely project EIRR is 23.0 percent, the worst case scenario EIRR is 18.9 percent, the best case scenario
EIRR is 26.1 percent, and there is a zero percent probability that the EIRR will be less than 12 percent.
Therefore, the project is economically well justified.
2. Financial (see Annex 12): NPV=Y 7,405 million at 7.5%discount rate; FIRR= 14.1%;
The financial evaluation focuses on the Zhengdian - Changsha expressway, which is the main component of
the project and the only one that will generate financial income with profit making and repayment capabilities.
Tolls will be charged as a function of vehicle type and size and distance traveled at the same level and
structure as the tolls currently being collected on tolled expressways in Hubei and Hunan Provinces. The
estimated weighted average cost of capital is 7.5 percent, considering that the World Bank will finance around
32 percent of the investment and 29 percent will be financed locally. The expressway financial rate of return
is 14.1 percent with a net present value of 7,405 million RMB Yuan at 7.5 percent discount rate with an
investment recovery period of 15 years. If construction costs increase by 20 percent while revenues decrease
by 20 percent, the project financial rate of return is 10.0 percent, which indicates that even under the most
unfavorable situation, the financial benefits are acceptable.
3. Technical:
The technical parameters and estimated costs for construction of the two expressway sections were established
by detailed feasibility, design and engineering studies undertaken by the Hunan and Hubei Provincial Design
Institutes and were reviewed by internationally recognized Italian and Spanish engineering consultants (for
these firms technical reports, see the Project Files) and checked against actual unit costs for the ongoing NH2
project in Hunan and NH3 project in Hubei. These were reviewed and found to be technically sound and
appropriate to the country's needs. The cost estimates of the project reflects March 1999 prices and are based
on the latest available engineering studies and prevailing unit rates for civil works, recent costs of foreign
experts from other highway projects in China including NH2 and NH3 and recent price quotations for
equipment. The cost estimates include physical and price contingencies. Physical contingencies were
calculated at 10 percent of the base cost of civil works and construction supervision. Price contingencies were
calculated for foreign costs, using US$ annual escalation factors of 3.2% in 1999, 2.9% in 2000 and 2.5
percent during 2001-2004. Price contingencies for local costs are based on local annual escalation of 5.0% in
1999 and 5.5 percent during 2000-2004.



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 18                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
4. Institutional.
During the preparation of the NH2-NH3-NH4 project series in Hunan and Hubei which has extended over
several years, frequent Bank missions have worked closely with the Hunan and Hubei PCDs to help them
better understand existing institutional constraints and deficiencies and to develop a long-term vision for their
institutional development. To that effect, Bank missions helped the two HPCDs develop draft organizational
and institutional development plans covering 6 year periods, the time it takes to complete NH2 and NH4
implementation in Hunan and NH3 and NH4 implementation in Hubei. These two long range development
plans now form the basis for agreed policy and institutional reforms, including organizational changes and
improvements, manpower training, and implementation of reforms in maintenance management, traffic safety
and high-grade highway operation and management.  Both HPCDs have demonstrated their project
management capabilities through their successful management of the two ongoing Bank projects, NH2 and
NH3. Their Projects Offices have competent and sufficient staff who are now quite experienced in managing
Bank-financed projects. They will also receive continued assistance from Bank supervision missions and
construction supervision consultants, both domestic and foreign. All these measures taken together are
expected to enable both HPCDs to efficiently manage the proposed project.
5. Social.
The project requires land acquisition for the expressways and the linking roads, which will cause readjustment
of agricultural land in affected villages and displacement of affected people.
During the feasibility studies of the project attention was paid to minimize the impact on agricultural land.
During the preliminary and final design, studies were made on 1/2000 maps to keep the alignment at a distance
from settlements to minimize relocation and adverse impact on affected communities. Particular attention was
paid to keep the alignment from dividing settlements into two parts wherever possible. To achieve these goals
resettlement and environment teams of the project were networked with the design institutes and the
corresponding Bank specialists to coordinate their work. Significant improvement in the alignment was
achieved reducing the impact of relocation and adverse environmental effects on communities along the route.
Socioeconomic surveys of the affected people and communities were conducted and census of Project
Affected Persons (PAPs) and their assets were completed on all the alignments considered for the project.
Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) are in accordance with Bank's Operational Directive 4.30 and have been
found satisfactory.
The RAPs establish the basis for land acquisition and resettlement in the project and respond to the general
Bank guidelines on involuntary resettlement. Basic objectives of the RAPs are to: (a) minimize resettlement;
(b) improve the standards of living of the PAPs or at least to restore them to the pre-project level; (c) consult
the affected communities on the project impact, entitlements, and rehabilitation measures; (d) compensate
affected villages for land and the PAPs for their lost assets at replacement value without depreciation; (e)
provide land to the PAPs whose land is affected by readjusting the village land; (f) provide alternative jobs to
the PAPs losing agricultural land if the land endowment of affected villages do not permit readjustment; (g)
ensure that PAPs whose jobs are affected through affected enterprises or lands operated by villages are
provided with similar employment in new enterprises and operations; (h) compensate the disrupted
infrastructure; (i) establish the time schedule and the budget of the resettlement component of the project; (j)
devise a mechanism for grievance and appeals; and (k) devise internal and independent monitoring
mechanisms.
A summary of project impacts related to land acquisition and resettlement is given below while more detailed
information is contained in Annex 14.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 19                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Impacts of the Highways Component
Province           Land Acquisition Affected HHs     Affected PAPs     Affected
(mu)                                                Enterprises
Hubei   expressway        11,203.20             1,865             8,961           6
and linking roads
Dawu-Hongan road            922.30                154               817
Puqi-Tongshan road         1,185.50              330              1,486
Hubei Total               13,311.00             2,349            11,264           6
Hunan expressway          16,282.16             3,809            14,926          14
Linking roads              1,705.97              231                948
Hunan Total               17,988.13             4,040            15,874          14
Project Resettlement Offices (PROs) of the two provinces are responsible for the overall coordination, internal
monitoring and implementation of resettlement. Field implementation of resettlement is the responsibility of
county Resettlement Offices (COROs) in conjunction with the township and village administrations. City
Resettlement Offices (CIROs) will liaise between the PROs and the COROs. All levels of Resettlement Offices
(ROs ) have already been established and trained for the project. Further training for the specific needs of the
resettlement network is also planned. The RAPs have been prepared through a collaboration of the PROs,
Independent Monitoring Organizations (IMO), the Design Institutes, local ROs and the, PAPs. All the PAPs
have been contacted and informed about the prospective resettlement and their concerns have been
incorporated in the RAPs. All the PAPs will be informed about the exact impact of the project on their
households and their entitlements after the official measurement of the impact is completed. Indicators for
monitoring have been developed and presented in the RAPs. While internal monitoring will focus on the
quantitative aspects of resettlement implementation, independent monitoring will evaluate both its qualitative
and quantitative aspects. Internal and external monitoring reports will be submitted to the Bank every six
months.
Implementation schedules for resettlement have been established. All resettlement will be completed before
the commencement of civil works. Resettlement will be funded out of counterpart funds. Cost estimates
include adequate allocation for physical and price contingencies.
6 Environmental assessment: Environmental Category[x] A[ ] B [3 C
Hubei: Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), Environmental Action Plan (EAP), and Environmental
Assessment (EA) Summary Reports for the main Zhengdian to Tucheng Expressway and Dawu-Hongan and
Tongshan-Chongyang-Puqi connecting roads were prepared by the Xian Highway Transportation University
and submitted to the Bank at various stages of project preparation beginning November 1997. The documents
were reviewed by the Bank and discussed with HPCD during the various missions to Hubei. The revised final
EIA, EAP and EA Summary were submitted in December 1998 and were found to be satisfactory to the Bank.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 20                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Hunan: The EIA, EAP and EA Summary reports for the Tucheng-Changsha Expressway and the Pingjiang
connecting road were prepared by the Environmental Engineering Research & Design Division of the
Research Institute of Highway of MOC. The reports were submitted to the Bank during various stages of
project preparation beginning November 1997. The documents were reviewed by the Bank and discussed with
HPCD during the various missions to Hunan. The revised final EIA, EAP and EA Summary were submitted in
December 1998 and were found to be satisfactory to the Bank.
The major findings and recommendations in the EIA/EAP reports for Hubei and Hunan are summarized
below. More detailed information on Environmental Assessment is provided in Annex 13.
Potential Impacts: In both Hubei and Hunan sections of the expressway, the major environmental impacts
during the construction period include noise, soil erosion, and dust. Lesser impacts include alteration of
hydrological regimes, interference with local people and traffic and impacts on the local ecology and on
irrigation systems. Traffic noise, air pollution from vehicle exhaust emission, soil erosion and water pollution
from service areas are identified as the major adverse impacts during the operation period.
Mitigation Measures: The EAPs for Hunan and Hubei specify mitigation measures, environmental
monitoring plans, institutional arrangements for their implementation, training and equipment requirements,
and budget needs for environmental protection. In the design phase the major emphasis was on the selection
of an optimum alignment taking into consideration not only the engineering issues and cost of building the
expressway, but also the environmental and resettlement issues. The final expressway alignments in Hubei and
Hunan were selected by judicious shift in the alignments to minimize the use of agriculture lands, to minimize
resettlement and to minimize the noise and other environmental impacts.
Mitigation measures during the construction phase will include planning of earthworks to reduce damage
caused by borrow areas and spoil piles and inclusion of overpasses and underpasses to minimize interference
with the movements of local people and traffic. Other measures will include reconstruction of agriculture and
drainage where appropriate, use of covered trucks to transport borrow materials, and use of water sprinklers to
reduce dust. In noise sensitive areas, night time noise will be minimized by restricting construction work
during the period from 0600 hr to 2200 hr.
Major mitigation measures during the operational phase will include the provision of noise barriers,
construction of new walls or raising the heights of existing walls around residences to reduce traffic noise,
afforestation to improve landscape and to reduce the impact of air pollution. The engineering designs and
technical specifications for the expressway construction incorporate appropriate measures to protect the
environment. Neither expressways nor the interconnecting roads will affect ecologically sensitive areas and
their construction and operation should have no adverse impact on the environment if the measures outlined in
the EAPs are properly implemented. Assurances were obtained at negotiations from Hunan Province and
Hubei Province that: (a) the enviromnental protection measures stipulated in the EAPs with regard to the main
expressways and their interconnecting roads will be carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (b)
Hunan Province and Hubei Province shall each fumish to the Bank annual environmental monitoring reports
for the expressways and their interconnecting and other roads during their construction phases and for each of
the first three years following their construction completion.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The major beneficiaries would be the communities along the Tucheng-Changsha and Zhengdian-Tucheng
corridors as well as intercity traffic between cities in the corridor and beyond. Benefits resulting from
improving the highway condition would accrue to the population throughout the provinces. Both HPCDs and



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 21                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
their related institutions would also benefit through the institutional strengthening and training contained in the
project.
b. Other key stakeholders.
The affected communities were involved in the formulation and comparison of alternative alignments as well
as the location of interchanges, underpasses and grade separations. During the EIA preparation, the local
people were intensively consulted through meetings with local government representatives and public opinion
questionnaires supplemented by interviews.
Special attention was given to the consultation with affected people and their representatives during the
preparation of the resettlement action plans. Implementation of the resettlement program is intended to be a
highly participatory exercise. A resettlement information booklet, including detailed entitlements of each
household, main contents of the RAPs, compensation and entitlement policies and grievance procedures will
be distributed to the affected people prior to resettlement implementation. Both internal and external (by
independent monitors) monitoring of the resettlement program would be conducted.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Traffic volumes on highways in China, particularly on expressways are expected to continue to grow fast.
EIRR calculations of completed highway projects in China at the time of loan closing - when expressways and
other high-grade highways have been in operation for a few years - frequently show higher EIRRs than at the
time of project appraisal. Experience from completed and ongoing Bank-financed highway projects in China
also shows a great commitment for implementation of the physical components of the project, which account
for the majority of the project cost. Generally, the counterpart funds are available on time, but lately some of
the provinces have become overextended and in some cases some delays have occurred in the availability of
these funds which had a slight adverse effect on the timely implementation of the project. The level of tolls
and the need for their regular review and increase are important for the financial viability of the project and the
project provinces' ability to repay the Bank loan on time as well as to provide timely and sufficient
maintenance funding. Construction quality has a major impact on future repair and maintenance cost and will
be controlled through tight construction supervision. Given that the Hunan and Hubei PCDs and their related
road sector institutions such as design institutes, training schools, research institutes, and supervision stations
have developed a high degree of ownership for the policy and institutional reform components of the NH4
operation, it can be expected that sustainability in these project areas can also be achieved. By the time NH2
and NH4 in Hunan and NH3 and NH4 in Hubei will be completed in 2005, both provinces will have worked
closely with the Bank and its consultants in the highway sector for over a 10 year period.



Project Appraisal Document                           Page 22                          Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                            Risk Rating             Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Lower than expected growth rates of traffic volumes        N          Critical review of feasibility studies and selection
of adequate technical standards
Bank will ensure that the training activities are
Training program will prove ineffective and managers and    M         well designed and prepared, and that the two
technical staff will not apply new skills                              HPCDs report regularly on effectiveness of
training after training is completed
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Inadequate quality of construction                          M          (a) Selection of competent contractors will reduce
this risk
(b) Adequate construction supervision
arrangements will reduce this risk
Delays in land acquisition and resettlement                 N         Early start of resettlement activities and proper
training in these areas as well as close supervision
by and guidance from the Bank will reduce this
risk
Sufficient counterpart funds, construction materials and    N         (a) Ensure sufficient financial resources are
human resources not available on time                                  available through analysis of highway revenues
and expenditures annually;
(b)MOF's, MOC's and the provincial
governments' strong support and HPCDs' strong
commitment to the project will ensure availability
(c) Regular dialogue with the provincial
governments and MOC
Deficient engineering design                                N          The engineering designs have been reviewed by
international experts
Delays in preparation and implementation                    M         (a) MOC and Bank will follow-up project closely
and carefully and provide timely advice and
support
(b) Project launch workshop will be held after
board approval and before start-up of
inplementation
Training program will not prove successful and managers and  M         (a) Well designed and implementable training
technical staff will not apply new skills                              programs have been prepared
(b) Criteria for selection of trainees are logical and
implemented in practice
(c) English language training is given to trainees
before training abroad
(d) Reports on effectiveness of training after
training is completed are submitted
(e) Provide trainees with opportunity to apply
acquired skills and tie promotions/salary increases
to effective training
Policy and Institutional Reform as well as Road Safety      M          (a) Bank has ensured that Policy and Institutional
Program will not receive large ownership from HPCDs and                Reform as well as Road Safety Program are well
will be unsuccessful                                                   designed and already enjoy large degree of
ownership from both HPCDs;
(b) Bank will conduct annual progress workshop
to ensure sustainable implementation of programs.



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 23                      Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Risk                       Risk Rating          Risk Minimization Measure
Selection of incompetent contractors               M        Careful pre-qualification of contractors in
consultation with the Bank will reduce this risk
Overall Risk Rating  M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The most likely controversial aspect of project implementation would relate to disagreements among
contractors, supervision engineers, the owners (Hunan and Hubei PCDs) and the Bank supervision missions
regarding construction quality of expressway civil works and related roads. This makes foreign construction
supervision personnel in a mediating role very necessary. Another controversial aspect between Bank
supervision missions and the two HPCDs could derive from the extent and speed of implementation of
difficult institutional and policy reforms such as organizational changes, creation of new highway entities
along commercial lines, "privatization" of force account maintenance units, and increasing road maintenance
funding.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
Issuance of acceptable legal opinions.
2. Agreement Reached with the Government:
The borrower will ensure that the proceeds of the loan are onlent to the Beneficiaries (Hunan and Hubei
Provinces) on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, with the Beneficiaries bearing the foreign
exchange risk.
3. Agreements Reached with the Beneficiaries:
Construction Supervision, Toll Rates, and Highway Expenditures
(a) Hunan Province and Hubei Province would employ and maintain construction supervision teams on
Tucheng - Changsha (TCE) and Zhengdian-Tucheng (ZTE) expressways, as applicable, with qualified staff in
adequate numbers to ensure that all works are carried out in accordance with technical specifications and that
strict quality controls are exercised on all sites. Construction quality would also be monitored through routine
project supervision and monthly and semi-annual progress reports;
(b) Hunan Province and Hubei Province shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and
provide to the Bank a monthly progress report on the civil works on the Zhengdian-Tucheng Expressway and
the Tucheng-Changsha Expressway, respectively;
(c) Hunan Province and Hubei Province shall undertake, complete and furnish to the Bank for its review and
comments, an analysis and recommendation for the toll rates on TCE and ZTE by March 31, 2002 taking into
consideration the results of the similar studies on toll rates conducted under other Bank-financed highway
projects in China and the experience with toll rates on major roads in China;



Project Appraisal Document                Page 24                     Fourth National Highway Project
Conty: China
(d) Hunan Province and Hubei Province would, by March 31 of each year commencing in 2000 and ending in
2005, furnish an annual highway expenditure report for the Bank's review and comments for the previous
year, which would: (i) show the length of each class of highway by condition (excellent, good, fair and bad) as
of December 31 of the previous year; (ii) show the completed physical works and actual expenditures of the
previous year against the planned physical targets and budgeted funds of that year, for new construction,
upgrading/improvement, rehabilitation, periodic maintenance, and routine maintenance; and (iii) show the
targets of the highway program for the following year, including new construction, upgrading/ improvement,
rehabilitation, periodic maintenance, and routine maintenance, in terms of planned physical works and planned
expenditures.
Policy and Institutional Reform and Road Traffic Safety Programs, and Training
(a) Hunan Province and Hubei Province would by December 31 of each year, or such other date as the Bank
shall request, each hold a workshop together with representatives of the Bank to evaluate the progress in the
implementation of its respective program of institutional and policy development and reform, and more
specifically in regard to increase competition in road maintenance, road safety, development of management
systems, and road maintenance and fund allocation;
(b) Each of Hunan Province and Hubei Province would: (i) by October 1, 2000, complete an institutional
development and reform plan for the next 6 years for its respective highway sector, such plan to cover the
areas of, inter alia, competition in road maintenance and road safety, and to include organizational
development and strengthening, training needs, equipment needs and management systems development; and
(ii) furnish said plan to the Bank for its review and comments;
(c) Each of Hunan Province and Hubei Province would, on the basis of the institutional development and
reform plan referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above, (i) by October 1 of each year, commencing on October 1,
2000, prepare and provide to the Bank for its review and comments an annual program of implementation;
and thereafter (ii) take all appropriate actions to implement said annual program, taking into consideration the
Bank's view thereon.;
(d) Each of Hunan Province and Hubei Province would: (i) carry out the training, in accordance with training
programs acceptable to the Bank; and to that end (ii) by June 30 of each year, commencing in June 30, 2000,
furnish to the Bank for its prior approval a rolling two-year training program;
(e) Each of Hunan Province and Hubei Province would: (i) by December 31, 2001, complete a maintenance
cost and fund allocation study under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish said study to the
Bank for its review and comments; and thereafter (iii) implement the recommendations of said study, taking
into consideration the Bank's view thereon;
(f) Hunan Province and Hubei Province would: (i) by December 31, 2002, complete a joint study on Hubei-
Hunan transportation and trade integration, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish said
study to the Bank for its review and comments; and thereafter (iii) implement the recommendations of said
study taking into consideration the Bank's view thereon;
(g) Each of Hunan Province and Hubei Province would: (i) by December 31, 2003, complete a study on safety
measures regarding maintenance works, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish said
study to the Bank for its review and comments; and thereafter (iii) implement the recommendations of said
study, taking into consideration the Bank's view thereon;



Project Appraisal Document                Page 25                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
(h) Each of Hunan Province and Hubei Province would, by March 31, 2004: (i) complete the development of a
road information system, a quality control system and an accident analysis system, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) put into effect said management systems;
(i) Hunan Province and Hubei Province would: (i) by March 31, 2002, prepare under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, a safety audit schedule and a
schedule of black spot identification and improvement; and thereafter (ii) implement said schedules.
Environment, Land Acquisition and Resettlement
(a) Hunan Province and Hubei Province shall carry out the EAPs and RAPs in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank and furnish any proposed revision of these plans to the Bank for its approval;
(b) Hunan Province and Hubei Province shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable therm to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying
out of EAPs and RAPs; and
(c) Hunan Province and Hubei Province shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and
furnish to the Bank: (i) on January 31 of each year, starting in 2000 through 2007, an annual environmental
monitoring report; and (ii) on January 31, 2000 and July 31, 2000, and thereafter on each January 31 during
the period of project implementation, an internal resettlement report prepared by the appropriate agencies of
the respective Project Provinces, and an external resettlement report prepared by an independent entity
acceptable to the Bank, on the implementation and impact of the resettlement activities during the immediately
preceding six months or one year period, as the case may be.
Reporting, Monitoring and Auditing
Hunan Province and Hubei Province shall prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and submit
to the Bank:
(a) a monthly progress report on the civil works of TCE and ZTE;
(b) a semi-annual progress report on implementation of all components of the project, by January 31
and July 31, commencing January 31, 2000;
(c) by January 31 of each year commencing in 2001 and ending in 2006, an annual monitoring report
in a form satisfactory to the Bank covering all components of the Project and assessing the extent to
which various implementation and development objectives have been obtained in the course of project
execution and operation;
(d) within six months of the closing date of the Bank loan to the project, an implementation
completion report in a format acceptable to the Bank; and
(e) the audited accounts for the project, statements of expenditures, and special accounts by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation. [ Not applicable.



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 26                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[XI The Project Implementation Plans have been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team   ader/Task Manager: Alfred Nickesen
Sector Manag                     Jitendra N. Bajpai
C+ry Dirotor-,                Huang



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 27                        Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
China: Fourth National Highway Project
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators'    Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Supervision
CAS Objective                                                                    (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
Increase economic activity along  Agriculture and Industry  Country economic     Continued Government
the high-priority corridor    (GOVAI) in affected counties    reports            commitment to
through continuing infrastructure                                                economic policies
development
Project Development Objectives                                                   (Development Objectives
to CAS Objective)
I. Relieve congestion, facilitate   1. I Average daily traffic on  Project progress and    Macroeconomic and
mobility and help increase the    existing roads            annual monitoring    political conditions will
efficiency and traffic safety in                           reports               remain stable
Northern Hunan and Southern    1.2 Average travel speed on
Hubei                         roads parallel to the proposed  Traffic counts and  Govemnment
road                         accident surveys      commitment at central,
provincial and local
1.3 Traffic accidents involving                    levels
fatalities
No unexpected natural
disasters occur (floods,
earthquakes)
Foreign exchange will
remain stable
Project Outputs                                                                  (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
1. Expressway sections        1.1 Number of km of          Monthly progress      Traffic will grow as
constructed                   expressways constructed       reports by supervision   projected
teams
2. Interconnecting and other  2.1 Number of km of           Semi-annual progress
roads constructed and/or      interconnecting roads         reports and annual
upgraded                      constructed/upgraded         monitoring reports
2.3 Number of km of other roads  Reports by Bank's
constructed/upgraded         supervision missions
3. Equipment and spare parts  3.1 Equipment and spare parts    Disbursements to
provided for operation and    delivered                     contractors
maintenance of highways,
quality control of construction,                            Project progress and
environmental monitoring,                                   annual monitoring
institutional strengthening, and                           reports
1 Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full
impact.



Project Appraisal Document                      Page 28                       Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
support of highway safety
component                                                  Traffic accident
surveys
4. HPCD institutional capacity    4.1 Number of HPCD staff
strengthened                  trained in financing,         Semi-annual progress
management, operation and    reports
construction supervision of
expressways                  Procurement reviews
and disbursements by
5. Studies on Highway         5.1 Study on Highway         Bank
Maintenance, Hunan-Hubei      Maintenance completed
Transport and Trade Integration,                            Reports of Bank's
and Expressway                5.2 Study on Hunan-Hubei     supervision missions
Commercialization and         Transport and Trade Integration
Corporatization completed     completed
5.3 Study on Expressway
Commercialization and
Corporatization completed
Project Components                                                               (Components to Outputs)
Component 1. Construction of
expressway and interconnecting   US$ 883.0 million
roads
Project progress     Selection of competent
1.I Construction of Tucheng                                reports               contractors
(Hubei border) - Changsha
section (TCE) (183 kin) in                                  Disbursement reports   Quality of construction
Hunan                                                                            in accordance with pre-
established criteria
1.2 Construction of Zhengdian-
Tucheng (Hunan border) section                                                   No delays in preparation
(ZTE) (109 km) in Hubei                                                          and implementation
1.3 Interconnecting roads,                                                       No delays in land
consisting of new construction                                                   acquisition and
and upgrading of roads in Hunan                                                  resettlement
1.4 Interconnecting and other                                                    Sufficient quality of
roads, consisting of new                                                         engineering designs
construction and upgrading of
roads in Hubei
1.5 Equipment for: (i) control of
construction quality and
monitoring of the environment;
(ii) operation and maintenance
for ZTE and TCE; (iii)
maintenance of the provincial
road network, RDB and PMS
1.6 Construction supervision
services for ZTE and TCE, the
interconnecting and other roads
programs



Project Appraisal Document                       Page 29                        Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Component 2. Institutional    US$ 4.9 million                                      Training program will
Strengthening/Capacity Building                                                    prove successful and
managers and staff will
2.1 Studies/technical assistance                                                   apply new skills
in Highway Maintenance
Management, Transport and                                                          Policy and Institutional
Trade Integration, Expressway                                                      Reform as well as Road
Commercialization and                                                              Safety Program will
Corporatization; and Road                                                          receive large ownership
Safety                                                                             from both HPCDs and
will be successful
2.2 Staff training programs,
covering all aspects of highway
planning, design, construction,
operation, finance and
maintenance.
US$ 3.5 million
Component 3. Front-end Fee
Component 4. Land Acquisition   US$ 60.6 million
and Resettlement



Project Appraisal Document                       Page 30                        Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Annex 1-1-A
Key Performance Indicators for Hunan
a) Development Indicators
Attainment of          Monitoring            1998               2003             2006
Project Objectives        Indicators          Baseline         Benchmark        Benchmark
(15t year of
operation)
Provide more          * ADT on existing
efficient, safer and  NR 107 (veh/day)
productive transport
services                  section A-B            6,412             2,983            4,081
section B-C           8,979             4,711            6,312
section C-D           7,940             3,219             5,199
section D-E           7,660             5,009            7,110
* Average Speed on
Existing NR 107
(km/hr)
section A-B             45               55                55
section B-C             50               60                60
section C-D             45               55                55
section D-E             50               55                55
* Accident rates
involving fatalities on
existing NR 107             12                10                8
(Number of accidents
per 10,000 vehicles)
NOTE: (1) A-B: Tandu-Linxiang; B-C: Linxiang-Wujiang; C-D: Wujiang-Wushi; D-E: Wushi-Changsha.
(2) Traffic measurement unit: medium-size truck/bus.



Project Appraisal Document                        Page 31                         Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
b) Implementation Indicators
1999       2000        2001        2002         2003        2005
ICR Year
% of civil works         5          35          70          100                     100
completed on TCE
% of                                30          75          100                     100
interconnecting
roads completed
% of equipment                      50          75          100                     100
purchased
% of E&M works                                              50       100            100
completed
Number of person-
months of
completed t     g                   242         369         496                     496
Domestic
57          93         113                     113
Overseas



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 32                                                                       Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND ROAD SAFETY MONITORING PLAN IN HUNAN PROVINCE
COMPONENT                    NOT               1999                        2000                         2001                         2002                         2003                         2004
Institutional                  A     HPCD and Bank mission      Workshop                     Workshop                     Workshop                     Workshop                     Workshop
Development Plan                    Workshop 10/01/             10/01/                       10/01/                       10/01/                       10/01/                       10/01/
organtsation Devpt             T    TEA-seminar and the         TEA-seminar and the          TEA-seminar and the          TEA-seminar and the          Final report                 RS- specialist
R. Safety Specialist                        Workshop            Workshop                     Workshop                     Workshop                     Workshop                     as part of HPCD
Training and                   C    Domestic:399, (only NH4)     Domestic.182, (only NH4)    Domestic:?                   Domestic:?
Education&Study Tour                Abroad:T:29+S:6             Abroad:T:28+S:0              Abroad:T:?+S:?               Abroad:T:?+S:?
(NH2+NH4)                           Prog.reptWorkshop           Prog.repNVorkshop            Prog.repiWorkshop            Prog.repAWorkshop
Koad Intormabon               lY   Progress report              Final rep.Phasel             Progress report              Progress report              Final.report                 RDB implemented
System  (RDB)                       Workshop 10/01/+             Phase 2 starts              Workshop 10/01/              Workshop 10/01/              Workshop 10101/              and in operation
LG RDB-acceptence           Workshop 10/Oi/
Quality Control Units               Progress report              Progress report              Progress report             Final.report                 QCU as part of
(QCU)                               Workshop 10/01/             Workshop 10/01/              Workshop 10/O1/              Workshop IO/0o/              HPCD
Competition in the             F   Progress report on           Progress report on trial-     Progress report on          Progress report on           Prog.rept. on completon-     Final report to be
Highway Sector                      training and bidding sysm.  stage                        spreading-stage (60%) +      spreading-stage+ MBO         stage + staff planning       presented at the
Workshop 10/01/             Workshop 10101/              MBO, Workshop 101011         Workshop 10/01/              Workshop 10/011              Workshop 10/01/
Highway Mainte-                     99/12 Agreemt. by LG         Priniples on fund           Progress report at the       Long term maintce.plan
nance Study                         on fund allocation          allocaton agreed by          Workshop                     to be presented at the
prindples.+ Workshop        HPCD+ Workshop                                            Workshop
Expressway Com.                H    Start of study              Principles agreed on by      Establishment prep           Progress report presentn.    Progress report presentation    Evaluation report
& Corp. Study                       Progress report at the      higher Govemmental level     Progress report presentaton    at the W.shop 10/01         at the Workshop 10/01       to be presented
Workshop                    Prog.rept. at Workshop       at the Workshop 10/01                                                                  at the Workshop 10/01
Transport &   raae              I                               Starting up seminar          Concluding seminar           Final report
lntegratIon Study                                               03/01/                       10/01/coordinated
Prog.rep. at Workshop       with the Workshop
Development ot AIS             J   Progress report at the       Progress report at the       Progress report at the       Progress report at the       Number of actions taken      Decision on AIS on
Workshop 10/01/             Workshop 10/011              Workshop 10/01/              Workshop 10/01/              based on AIS+ W-shop         Exp.ways + W-shop
Road Traffic Safety            K   TEA-seminar in the           TEA-seminar in the           TEA-seminar in the           TEA-seminar In the           TEA-seminar in the           TEA-seminar in the
Seminars                             Prefectures+ progress       Prefectures+ progress        Prefectures+ progress        Prefectures+ progress        Prefectures+ progress        Prefectures+ progress
report at the W.shop        report at the W.shop         report at the Wshop         report at the Wshop           report at the Workshop       report at the Workshop
Other Road SaFety              L   Black-spots identified        Checklists and routines     Checklists and routines      Checklists and routines      Black-spots remedied         Final report on the
Activities                          acc. to plan+progrs.rept.    progress report              progress report              +progress repport           acc. to plan+progrs.rept.    outcome from other activs.
TEA-sem.+ Workshop          TEA-sem.+ Workshop           TEA-sem.+ Workshop           TEA-sem.+ Workshop           TEA-sem.+ Workshop           TEA-sem.+ Workshop



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 33                      Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND ROAD SAFETY MONITORING PLAN IN HUNAN
Notes on the Various Components
Institutional Development Plan
A.             Outputs:   -An annual updated core document for the development of the highway sector.
Outcomes: -Continuing dialogue and development process over a period of 6 years, which leads
to a continuously improved and extended plan.
Indicators:  -Annual update and progress report to be presented at the yearly workshop with the
Bank on institutional development and road safety.
Road Safety Specialists in the Project Office
B.             Outputs:   -Documentation of findings (good as well as bad) and experiences gained, e.g.
from countermeasures carried out.
-Execution of safety components under the project.
Outcomes:  -Increased know-how on safety.
-Increased road safety activities under NH2 and NH4 projects.
-Road safety work to be institutionalized under HPCD.
Indicators:  -The results should be presented at the yearly TEA meeting and at the annual HPCD
and Bank mission progress workshop.
-Work reports after completion of each stage of work.
-Final reports on lessons leamed and recommendations.
-In a longer perspective reduced number of serious accidents (before and after
introduction of findings and what has been developed).
Training and Education
C.             Outputs:   -Number of people that have taken part in the training according to the program.
Outcomes:  -New know-how in use.
Indicators:  -Percentage of trained people who are able to use the new know-how in their daily
work.
-Progress report presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional
development and road safety.
-To fulfill its purpose, the training program shall be revised and extended every
second year.
Road Information System
D.             Outputs:   -Phase 1, establishment of a provincial RDB by the end of 1999.
-Phase 2, establishment and application of RDB in each prefecture and city of the
province, by the end of 2003.
Outcomes:  -Phase 1, an RDB system consistent with the MOC recommendations and adjusted to
the needs in Hunan Province.
-Phase 2, integrated with the PMS and BMS systems it will lead to increased
efficiency in planning and maintenance of roads, which in a longer term perspective
will have a positive effect on traffic flow, traffic safety and quality of work
carried out.
Indicators:  -Phase 1, a progress report would be available and presented at the HPCD/Bank
mission workshop in October 1999.
-Phase 2, by the end of year 1999 the Leading Group shall give its final acceptance
for the implementation of RDB in the whole Province (Prefecture and City levels).
-The RDB system on all levels shall be in operation by the end of 2003.
-Progress reports shall be presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on
institutional development and road safety.



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 34                       Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Quality Control Units
E.             Outputs:   -Quality assurance key factors checklist.
-A system for quality control.
-An organizational set up on Provincial and Prefecture levels.
Outcomes:  -Increased focus on quality.
-Increased know how through training and education.
-Quality control being institutionalized as part of HPCD.
-A systematic operation and management process for improved quality in the Province.
-Increased percentage of work with good quality.
Indicators:  -Progress report on experiences obtained, 1999.
-Progress report on checklist preparation, 1999.
-Progress report on training in the yearly workshop with the Bank, 1999-2000.
-Progress reports on results achieved, 2000- 2002.
-Final report on quality improvements made, 2002.
-The model should gradually be applied on road activities in the whole Province.
-Progress reports presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank should cover
problems, measures taken and results.
Development of Competition in the Highway Sector
F.             Outputs:   -Organizational simplification and functional changes.
-A new maintenance management model (policy).
-System reform as regards staffing, labor organization and deployment (policy).
-Reform on maintenance operation (policy).
Outcomes:  -Increased competition in road maintenance.
-Adapted market oriented management philosophy.
-Increased efficiency in maintenance work.
-Improved cost/outcome know-how on all levels.
-Improved personnel resource planning.
-Increased percentage of roads in good condition.
Indicators:  -Progress report on training coupled to the component.
-Progress report on development and execution of the bidding system for maintenance
work.
-Progress report on the trial stage.
-Progress report on the spreading stage: (i) maintenance firms to be established in 60%
of the highway bureaus at the county level in all Prefectures, year 2000; (ii) new
employment system to be introduced in highway bureaus on the county level;
(iii) management by objectives (MBO) being introduced.
-Progress report on the completion stage: (i) establishment of maintenance firms in the
whole Province to be completed; (ii) employment system to be executed for leaders in
the highway bureaus at Prefecture level; (iii) MBO for leaders developed;
(iv) promotion of the new deployment system.
-Progress report on staff planning and how it has been solved in practice.
-Progress reports to be presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional
development and road safety.
-Final report 2004.



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 35                      Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Highway Maintenance Management and Maintenance Cost and Fund Allocation Studies
G.             Outputs:   -A long term activity plan.
-A conceptual model on PMS and BMS systems integrated with the RDB.
-A maintenance cost and fund allocation model.
Outcomes:  -A sustainable system for maintenance activities.
-Increased efficiency by using PMS, BMS and RDB.
-Principles on fund allocation (policy).
Indicators:  -Principles on fund allocation approved by HPCD by the end of 2000.
-Introduction of PMS and BMS should be coordinated with the RDB development
so these three systems could benefit from each other.
-Long term maintenance activity plan should be available 24 months after
commencing the study.
-Progress reports to be presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional
development and road safety.
Expressway Commercialization and Corporatization Study
H.             Outputs:   -A report on options to establish a Provincial Toll Road Corporation/Authority.
Outcomes:  -Increased efficiency to administer toll roads in the Province.
Indicators:  -The principles agreed on by higher governmental level.
-Establishment of such an organization under NH4.
-Evaluation report 2 years after the establishment.
-Progress reports to be presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional
development and road safety.
Hunan-Hubei Transport and Trade integration Study
I.             Outputs:   -Report on the existing situation and a prediction until year 2020.
Outcomes:  -A basis for planning of investments in various transport modes and facilities.
Indicators:  -The startup seminar in the beginning.
-The seminar at the end of the study.
-Progress report at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional development and
road safety.
Development of Accident Information System (AIS)
J.             Outputs:   -An accident information system model adjusted for the needs of HPCD as well as for
the Traffic Police on the whole length of NR107.
-An accident information system built on the experiences gained on NR107 for the
whole expressway network in Hunan Province.
Outcomes:  -The AIS serves as an important information basis for decisions on measures to
improved road safety.
-The AIS serves as an important instrument to follow up results of measures taken.
-Increased know how about where and under which circumstances the accidents have
occurred.
-Increased cooperation with the Traffic Police.
Indicators:  -Progress reports at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional development
and road safety.
-Number of actions taken on NR107 based on the outcome from AIS.
-Decision on implementing the AIS on all Expressways in Hunan Province.



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 36                       Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Road Traffic Safety Seminars
K.             Outputs:   -Documentation of presentations made at the seminars.
Outcomes:  -Increased know-how about the road safety situation and how to tackle the problems.
Indicators: -TEA-seminars to be held once a year during the project period.
-During the project period one road safety seminar (TEA) shall be held in each of
the six regions of the Province. The regional seminars should be built on experiences
from other TEA seminars.
Other Road Safety Activities (Grouped)
(safety at road work sites, safety audit procedures and the pilot safety program on black-spots)
L.             Outputs:   -Documentation of models to be used in safety audit procedures as well as in safety at
road work sites and identification and remedy of black spots.
-Training program for concerned staff.
-Principles to be followed in the whole Province.
Outcomes:  -Increased know-how and ideas on some simple routines to be followed in the daily
work, which leads to improved road safety.
Indicators:  -Presentation of findings and experiences gained at the TEA seminar once a year.
-Presentation of the result at the annual workshop with the Bank on institutional
development and road safety.
-Number of prefectures where the new routines are in use.
-Number of black-spots remedied in accordance with the agreed plan.



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 37                       Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Annex 1-1-B
Key Performance Indicators for Hubei
a) Development Indicators
Attainment of         Monitoring               1998              2003           2006
Project             Indicators            Baseline        (Bst year of    Benchmark
Objectives                                                   operation)
Provide more      * ADT on existing NR
efficient, safer and 107 (veh./day)
productive
transport services      section A-B              5935              3700           4058
section B-C             6759              3613           3962
section C-D             5499              3493            3829
section D-E             6196              3355            3679
section E-F             5675              3455           3788
section F-G             5384              2941           3224
section G-H             5405              2989            3278
* Average Speed on
Existing NR 107 (m/br)
section A-B
section B-C              50                55              55
section C-D              50                55              55
section D-E              45                50              50
section E-F              35                40             40
section F-G              35                40              40
section G-H              45                50              50
60               65              65
Increase highway   * Accident rates on
safety conditions   existing NR 107
(Number of accidents
involving fatalities per
10,000 veh.)                   15                13             12
Notes: (1) A-B: Zhengdian-Anshan; B-C: Anshan-Henggou; C-D: Henggou-Xianning; D-E: Xianning-Quankou; E-F:
Quankou-Puqi; F-G: Puqi-Zhaoliqiao; G-H: Zhaoliqiao-Tucheng.
(2) Traffic measurement unit: medium-size truck/bus.



Project Appraisal Document                       Page 38                        Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
b) Implementation Indicators
1998     1999      2000      2001       2002      2003      2005
ICR
Year
% of civil works                10        40        70         100                 100
completed on ZTE
% of E&M works                                      40         90        100       100
complete
% of interconnecting                      40         80        100                 100
roads improved!
rehabilitated
% of other roads                          40         80        100                 100
improved/rehabilitated
Number of person-
months of completed
training
Domestic               5        131        182       195       213                 213
Foreign                         13        23        27         29                  29
% of equipment         3        30        75         100                           100
purchased



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 39                                                          Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND ROAD SAFETY MONITORING PLAN IN HUBEI PROVINCE                                     _       _      _
COMPONENT              NOT           1999                  2000                   2001                   2002                   2003                    2004
Institutional           A  Workshop                Workshop              Workshop               Workshop               Workshop                Workshop
Development Plan            io/0o/                 10/01/                 10/01/                10/01/                  10/01/                 10/01/
*World Bank+ HPCD      __
Organisation Devpt.  B  TEA-seminar and the    TEA-seminar and the    TEA-seminar and the    TEA-seminar and the    Final report
a. Road Safety Unit         Workshop               Workshop               Workshop              Workshop                Workshop               RSU as part of HPCD
b. Quality Control-         LG std-approval 99/12    Prog.report          Prog.report            Prog.report            Final report           QCU as part of HPCD
Unit                      Workshop              Workshop               Workshop               Workshop               Workshop               Workshop
Training and             C  Domestic: 18           Domestic: 90           Domestc:4              Domestic:6
Education&StudyTo           Abroad:T:20+S:9        Abroad:T:8+S:1 3       Abroad:T:O+S:9        Abroad:T:4+S:4
tNH3+NH4)                   Prog. rep/Workshop     Prog.rep/Workshop      Prog.rep/Workshop
Road Information        0  Prog.report             Prog.report 03/01      Prog.report            Prog.report            Final. report
System (RDB)                os/01/                 Final rep.Phase1       03/01+09/01            03/01+09/01            RDB implemented
Workshop               Phase 2 starts        Workshop               Workshop               and in operation
Com petition in the      E  preparation            List of potential firms  Selection of test firm  Test running        Test running           Evaluation report
Highway Sector              Progress report at the    Progress report at the    Progress report at the    Progress report at the    Progress report at the    presented at the
Workshop              Workshop               Workshop               Workshop               Workshop               Workshop
Highway Mainte-          F  99/12 Agreemt. by LG                                                 Long term maintn. plan
nance Study                 on fund allocation     Progress report at the    Progress report at the   to be presented at the
principles.+ Workshop    Workshop            Workshop               Workshop
Expressway Com.    G  Start of study               Principles agreed by   Establishment prep
& Corp. Study               Progress report at the    MOC and MOF         Prog.rpt.03/01+09/01   Prog.rpt.03/01+09/01   Prog.rpt.03/01+09/01   Prog.rpt.03/01+09/01
Workshop              Prog.rept. at W.shop   prestn. at the W.shop   restn. at the W.shop    prestn. at the W.shop  prestn. at the W.shop
Transport & Trade        H                         Starting up seminar    Concluding seminar     Final report
Integration Study                                  03/01/                 10/01/ coordinated
_Prog.rep. at W.shop   with the Workshop
Road Traffic Safety      I  TEAseminar+ 1 day      TEAseminar+ 1 day      TEAseminar+ 1 day      TEAseminar+ 1 day      TEAseminar+ 1 day      TEAseminar+ 1 day
Seminars                    seminar in Prefecture+   seminar in Prefecture+   seminar in Prefecture+   seminar in Prefecture+   seminar in Prefecture+   seminar in Prefecture+
_    progr.rep.at the W.shop  progr.rep.at the W.shop  progr.rep.at the W.shop  progr.rep.at the W.shop  progr.rep.at the W.shop   progr.rep.at the W.shop
Other Road Safety        J  TEA-sem.+ Workshop   TEA-sem.+ Workshop    TEA-sem.+ Workshop    TEA-sem.+ Workshop    TEA-sem.+ Workshop    TEA-sem.+ Workshop
Activities                   No of black-spots     No of black-spots      No of black-spots      No of black-spots      No of black-spots      No of black-spots
identified acc. to plan    identified acc. to plan    remedied acc. to plan    remedied acc. to plan    remedied acc. to plan    remedied acc. to plan



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 40                       Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND ROAD SAFETY MONITORING PLAN IN HUBEI
Notes on the Various Components
Institutional Development Plan
A.             Outputs:   -An annual updated core document for the development of the highway sector.
Outcomes:  -Continuing dialogue and development process over a period of 6 years, which leads to
a continuously improved and extended plan.
Indicators:  -Annual update and progress report to be presented at the yearly workshop with the
Bank on institutional development and road safety.
Road Safety Unit
B.a            Outputs:   -Documentation of findings (good as well as bad) and experiences gained, e.g.
from countermeasures carried out
Outcomes:  -Increased know-how on safety.
-Increased road safety activities under NH3 and NH4 projects.
-Road safety work to be institutionalized under HPCD.
Indicators:  -The results should be presented at the yearly TEA meeting and at the annual HPCD
and Bank mission progress work shop.
-In a longer perspective a reduced number of serious accidents, measured 2 years
after project completion.
Quality Control Unit and Quality Management System
B.b            Outputs:   -Project Office strengthened by establishment of the quality control unit.
-Documentation of standards (policy) for road related products and services.
-A system for quality control.
Outcomes:  -Increased focus on quality.
-Quality control being institutionalized as part of HPCD.
-A systematic operation and management process for improved quality in the Province.
Indicators:  -The Leading group has approved the quality standards (policies), by the end of 1999.
-The model should gradually be applied on road activities in the whole Province in
accordance with the work plan (and not wait until the project period is over).
-Progress report presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank (problems, measures
taken and results) on institutional development and road safety.
Training and Education
C.             Outputs:   -Number of people that have taken part in the training according to the program.
Outcomes:  -New know-how in use.
Indicators:  -Percentage of trained people who are able to use the new know-how at their daily
work.
-Progress report presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional
development and road safety.
-To fulfill its purpose, the training program shall be revised and extended every second
year.
Road Information System
D.             Outputs:   -Phase 1, a small scale development and testing of an RDB system in the test area of
Ezhou city (National and Provincial roads only).
-Phase 2, distribution and application of RDB in each prefecture and city of the
province.



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 41                      Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Outcomes:  -Phase 1, an RDB system consistent with the MOC recommendations and adjusted to
the initial needs in Hubei Province.
-Phase 2, integrated with the PMS and BMS systems it will lead to increased
efficiency in planning and maintenance of -oads, which in a longer perspective it will
have a positive effect on traffic flow, traffic safety and quality of work carried
out.
Indicators:  -Phase 1, progress reports should be available every sixth months, and a final report not
later than 18 months from project start.
-Phase 2, by the end of year 2000 the Leading Group shall give its final acceptance
for the implementation of RDB in the whole Province.
-The system shall be in full operation in 2003.
-Progress reports (phases I and 2) shall be presented during the yearly workshop with
the Bank on institutional development and road safety.
Development of Competition in the Highway Sector
E.             Outputs:   -A list of firms/companies inside as well as outside the Highway Administration
sector that would be capable to carry out periodic as well as routine maintenance work.
-Testing of such firms/companies in a limited test area.
-Analysis and documentation of the results with regard to costs and quality.
Outcomes:  -A survey of the local market.
-Increased competition.
-A comparison between force account and "outside firms" regarding costs and quality
which leads to increased know-how about the efficiency level.
Indicators:  -The list should be available after 2 months from start
-Selection procedure finished 2 months thereafter.
-Establishment and start of the test 1 month after the firms have been selected.
-Test-period would last for 2 years.
-Successive follow-up and progress reports every 6 months.
-Progress presentation at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional
development and road safety.
-Evaluation report to be presented 2 months after finishing the test.
Highway Maintenance Management and Maintenance Cost and Fund Allocation Studies
F.             Outputs:   -A long term activity plan.
-PMS and BMS systems integrated with the RDB.
-A maintenance cost and fund allocation model.
Outcomes:  -A sustainable system for maintenance activities.
-Increased efficiency by using PMS, BMS and RDB.
-Principles on fund allocation (policy).
Indicators:  -Principles on fund allocation decided on by the Leading Group by the end of 1999.
-The introduction of PMS and BMS should be coordinated with the RDB development
so these three systems could benefit from each other.
-The long term maintenance activity plan should be available 24 months after
commencing the study.
-Progress reports to be presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional
development and road safety.
Expressway Commercialization and Corporatization Study
G.             Outputs:   -A report on options to establish a Provincial Toll Road Corporation/Authority.
Outcomes:  -Increased efficiency to administer toll roads in the Province.
Indicators:  -The principles agreed on by MOF and MOC.
-Establishment of such an organization under NH4.
-Evaluation report 2 years after the establishment.



Project Appraisal Document                      Page 42                        Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
-Progress reports for every 6 months and presentation at the yearly workshop with the
Bank on institutional development and road safety.
Hunan-Hubei Transport and Trade Integration Study
H.             Outputs:   -Report on the existing situation and a prediction until year 2020.
Outcomes:  -A basis for planning of investments in various transport modes and facilities.
Indicators:  -The startup seminar in the beginning.
-The seminar at the end of the study.
-Progress report at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional development and
road safety.
Road Traffic Safety Seminar
L              Outputs:   -Documentation of presentations made at the seminar.
Outcomes:  -Increased know-how about the road safety situation and how to tackle the problems.
Indicators:  -TEA-seminars to be held once a year in Wuhan and during the project period a one
day safety seminar shall be held in each of the Prefectures in the Province.
Other Road Traffic Safety Activities (Grouped)
(safety at road work sites, safety audit procedures and the pilot safety program on black-spots)
J.             Outputs:  -Documentation of good examples and procedures aiming at improved road
safety.
Outcomes:  -Increased know-how and ideas on some simple routines to be followed in the
daily work, which leads to improved road safety.
Indicators:  -Presentation of the results at the yearly TEA-seminar as well as at the annual
workshop with the Bank on institutional development and road safety.
-Number of black-spots remedied in accordance with the agreed plan.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 43                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
ANNEX 2: HUNAN AND HUBEI HIGHWAY SECTOR
REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES
Fourth National Highway Project
Introduction
1. The following two tables contain highway sector revenue and expenditure data for Hunan and Hubei
Provinces. These tables cover the 9th Five Year Plan period (9FYP) from 1996 to 2000 and the I oth Five
Year Plan period (10 FYP) from 2001 to 2005. While highway sector revenue and expenditure data is
available for 9FYP on an annual basis, planning for the 1 OFYP is only at a preliminary stage and data is
not yet available for each of the five years.
Revenue Analysis
2. An analysis of the Hunan and Hubei highway sector revenue data indicates that during the 9FYP
period Hunan's highway sector revenues amount to US$3.7 billion (equivalent) while those of Hubei
reach US$3.4 billion. Anticipated revenues for the IOFYP are US$3.8 billion in Hunan and US$4.2
billion in Hubei. In terms of revenue structure, both provinces essentially have the same revenue sources.
While the Road Maintenance Fee provides between 15% and 20% of annual revenues, the Highway Key
Construction Fund delivers between 10-15% of sector funding. MOC provides about 10% in Capital
Construction Subsidy while local governments provide around 15% in subsidy form to the two HPCDs.
The contribution of the national aid-poverty subsidy is very small, only around 1% and will disappear
after the year 2000. By far the most important revenue source for the highway sector during the 9FYP
and 1 OFYP is domestic and foreign loan funding which includes, inter alia World Bank highway loans for
NH2, NH3 and NH4 projects and which ranges between 34% in Hunan (9FYP) and 38% in Hubei (also
9FYP). The large proportion of loan funding of which around 80% is domestic is due to accelerated
construction of the NTHS and other high-grade highways. Toll financing and the issuance of bonds and
stocks only contribute a modest 5-10% to the overall revenue picture which would indicate that only few
toll expressways and other toll roads are operational at this stage in the two provinces.
Expenditure Analysis
3. On the expenditure side distinction needs to be made between new road construction, road
improvement, and road maintenance, with the latter comprising routine and periodic operations. During
the 9FYP Hunan is spending 70% of its highway sector funds on new construction and 12% on road
improvement while Hubei is spending 53% of its funds on new construction and 23% on road
improvement In addition, Hunan is spending 11% of sector funds on routine and periodic maintenance
while Hubei is spending 15% on these two maintenance categories. These maintenance expenditures
should be considered as the minimum necessary to keep the road networks operational. Agency
overheads and loan servicing require 7% in Hunan and 9% in Hubei. The envisaged expenditure
structure for the 1OFYP in both provinces is similar to the patterns of 9FYP.
4. A further distinction can be made for expenditures by road type. During 9FYP, Hunan spends 53% of
its sector funds on expressways while Hubei spends 48% on expressways. This is followed by the
spending of 32% of sector funds on national and provincial roads in both provinces. Finally, rural roads
receive 10% of road sector funds in both provinces (i.e. US$338 million in Hunan and US$337 in Hubei).
These calculations include new construction, improvement and maintenance for these three principal road
categories. The anticipated expenditure picture for the 1 OFYP follows the one for the 9FYP.



Project Appraisal Document                    Page 44                       Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
EHUNAN HIGHWAY SECTOR REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES, 1996-2005
(Y million)
91YP                     Total    10FVYP
1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
R1EVENUES
Road maintenance fee            1,136   1,142   1,197   1,228    1,283    5,986    7,705
Transfer to financing sector     50       50      55       60      60      275      330
Transfer to public security      25       25      26       27      28      131       115
Transfer to fee collection sector  37     40      50       55      57      239      312
Remaining road maintenance fee  1,024   1,027   1,066   1,086   1,138    5,341    6,777
Highway Key Construction Plan      758     803      819     835     876   4,091    4,793
Capital construction (subsidy)
Central government (MOC)         266     376      662     750      910   2,964    3,400
Local government                 350     490    1,160   1,200    1,500   4,700    5,500
National aid-poverty road subsidy   60      60       70      70      70      330      170
Domestic and foreign loans         550     545   2,453   2,967   3,750  10,265    8,039
Foreign and domestic investments   130     283     408      170     200   1,191    1,050
Toll revenues and other (issuing
bonds & shares)                     55      70      140     900     455   1,620    2,145
Total                            3,193   3,654   6,778   7,978   8,899  30,502   31,874
EXPENDITURES
New Construction                 1,666   2,153   4,849   5,974   6,635   21,277   20,842
Expressway                     1,021    1,500   3,555    4600   5,250  15,926   14,729
National and Provincial roads    400     380   1,000    1066   1,080   3,926    5,068
Rural roads                     245      273     294      308     305   1,425    1,045
Improvement                       707      652     773      810     827    3,769    2,915
National and Provincial roads    602     535     644      680     692   3,153    2,410
Rural roads                      105     117      129     130      135     616      505
Periodic maintenance              334      320     367      385     406    1,812    2,277
National and Provincial roads    278     263     303      319     336   1,499    1,857
Rural roads                       56      57      64       66      70      313      420
Routine maintenance               301      308     337     351      355    1,652    2,110
Expressway                         6      10       19      25      29       89      402
National and Provincial roads    206     209     228      233     233   1,109    1,219
Rural roads                       89      89      90       93      93      454      489
Overhead & payment of loans        185     221     452      458     676   1,992    3,730
Total                            3,193   3,654   6,778   7,978   8,899   30,502   31,874
Source: Hunan Provincial Communication Department



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 45                       Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
HUBEI HIGHWAY SECTOR REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES, 1996-2005
(Y million)
9FYP                     Total   1oFYP
1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
REVENUES
Road maintenance fee                 813      854     896      940      987   4,490
Transfer to public security          19      19       20      21       23      102
Transfer to fee collection sector    37      38       40      42       43      200
Remaining road maintenance fee       757      797     836      877      921    4,188    5000
Highway Key Construction Plan        485      511     538      566      595   2,695    3300
Capital construction (subsidy)
Central government (MOC)            143     133      564     910    1,010   2,760    3600
Local government                    345     338      997    1,396    1,340   4,416    5300
National aid-poverty road subsidy     28       90       50      50       50     268
Foreign and domestic loans           714      479    1,878   2,876   4,585   10,532   12800
Toll revenues                        522      574     632      695      765   3,188    4500
Total                               2,994   2,922   5,495   7,370   9,266  28,047  34,500
EXPENDITURES
New Construction                     688      745   2,532   4,535   6,367   14,867   17700
Expressway                         650      620   2,232    3835    5,717   13,054   15600
National and Provincial roads                25     200      600      550    1,375    1600
Rural roads                         38      100     100      100      100     438      500
Improvement                        1,070     917   1,550   1,398   1,373    6,308    7600
National and Provincial roads      927      766     969      952      860   4,474    5400
Rural roads                        143      151     581      446     513    1,834    2200
Periodic maintenance                 215      161     220      170     180      946    1200
National and Provincial roads      186      140     189      148      157     820    1000
Rural roads                         29       21      31       22      23      126      200
Routine maintenance                  546     577      619      635     651    3,028    3950
Expressway                          48       52      57       63      70      290      450
National and Provincial roads      425      449     485      490      494   2,343    3000
Rural roads                         73       76      77       82       87     395      500
Overhead and payment of loans        475      522     574      632      695   2,898    4050
Total                               2,994   2,922   5,495   7,370    9,266  28,047  34,500
Source: Hubei Provincial Communication Department



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 46                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
ANNEX 3: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Fourth National Highway Project
Project Component 1 - Construction of expressway and interconnecting roads
US$883.0 million (total cost of component)
Project Sub-Component 1.1- Construction of Tucheng - Changsha expressway section (TCE) (183
kn) in Hunan
US$438.2 million
Tucheng - Changsha Expressway (TCE) is a 182.8 km divided, four-lane, access-controlled toll highway,
which would be connected in Changsha with the Changsha - Xiangtan expressway section which is open to
traffic. At the Hubei border, it would be connected to the Zhengdian-Tucheng expressway section according
to the agreement reached between Hubei and Hunan on July 8, 1994. The Zhengdian-Tucheng expressway
section is also part of NH4 project, so both sections will be constructed at the same time. MOC's expressway
standards for plain rolling terrain with a design speed of 120 km/h will be applied.
TCE would also include: (a) construction of eleven interchanges, (b) three couples of service areas providing
facilities for refueling and vehicle repair, restaurants, parking and resting, (c) three additional couples of rest
areas providing facilities for parking and resting, (d) three facilities for expressway administration and
maintenance, and (e) electrical and mechanical installations for toll collection, traffic monitoring,
telecommunications and lighting of all interchanges and annex areas.
Project Sub-Component 1.2 - Construction of Zhengdian-Tucheng expressway section (ZTE) (110
km) in Hubei
US$349.0 million
Zhengdian - Tucheng Expressway (ZTE) is a 109.8 km divided, four-lane, access-controlled toll highway. In
Zhengdian, South of Wuhan, it would be connected to the Jingzhu and Hurong expressway sections which are
part of Third National Highway Project. In Tucheng, at the border with Hunan, it would be linked to the
Tucheng - Changsha expressway section which will also be part of the Fourth National Highway Project.
MOC's expressway standards for plain rolling terrain with a design speed of 120 km/h will be applied.
ZTE would also include: (a) construction of six interchanges, (b) two couples of service areas providing
facilities for refueling and vehicle repair, restaurants, parking and resting, (c) two additional couples of rest
areas providing facilities for parking and resting, (d) one facility for expressway administration and
maintenance, and (e) electrical and mechanical installations for toll collection, traffic monitoring,
telecommunications and lighting of all interchanges and annex areas.
Project Sub-Component 1.3- Construction of interconnecting roads in Hunan
US$19.6 million
The project will include the completion of four class 2, two lane, interconnecting roads totaling 29.9 km and
linking the expressway to the main cities and towns of the area. (In addition according to an agreement signed
with the local government of Yueyang, a 15.1 km class 1 highway will be opened to traffic before completion



Project Appraisal Document                Page 47                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
of TCE. According to another agreement reached with Changsha municipality, about I km of class 2 highway
will be opened to traffic at the same time as TCE and will conmect the expressway and the Xinsha development
zone of Changsha. These two latter roads are not part of the project but will be implemented during project
execution so as to complement project investments). With the other existing roads in the corridor, the
expressway will be linked properly to the highway network and to the cities and towns to be served.
Project Sub-Component 1.4 - Construction of interconnecting and other roads in Hubei
US$43.4 million
The project will include the completion of four class 2, two lane, interconnecting roads totaling 28 km linking
the expressway to the main cities and towns of the area. With the other existing roads in the corridor, the
expressway will be linked properly to the highway network and to the cities and towns to be served.
The project will also include two other roads in Hubei which have to be upgraded to class 2. The first one links
the city of Hongan to Jingzhu in Dawu (NH3) with a length of 69 km among which 5 km are a reuse of the
existing road, 48 km are a rehabilitation and 16 km are new alignment. The second road links the NRI06 and
the cities of Tongshan and Chongyang to Jingzhu in Puqi (NH4) with a total length of 95 km among which 16
kmn are a reuse of the existing road, 57 km are a rehabilitation and 22 km are new alignment.
Project Sub-Component 1.5 - Equipment
US$10.0 million
This component includes equipment for: (i) control of construction quality and monitoring of the
environment; (ii) operation and maintenance of ZTE and TCE after their completion; (iii) maintenance of the
provincial road network including RDB and PMS. Equipment to be provided under the project has been
identified by Hubei and Hunan PCDs and agreed by the Bank. Agreed equipment lists including cost
estimates are available in the project file. These lists include, for both provinces, equipment items required for
expressway operation and maintenance, strengthening of central laboratories, and environmental monitoring.
In the case of Hubei, selected equipment items for RDB and PMS development as well as for the maintenance
of the provincial highway network are also included. In Hunan, the equipment list has taken into consideration
those items that were already procured under the ongoing Second National Highway Project (Loan 4124-
CHA).
Project Sub-Component 1.6 - Construction supervision services for expressway sections,
interconnecting and other roads
US$22.8 million
Based on the experience gained from on-going Bank-financed highway projects in China, a combined team of
domestic engineers, technicians and other personnel and international consultants will supervise the above-
mentioned, main highways and a team of domestic engineers, technicians and other personnel will supervise
the interconnecting road programs. The international experts would be integrated into the supervision
organization with operational responsibilities and would help establish procedures at all levels of the
supervisory work, including on-site inspections and laboratory testing.
In Hunan, the construction supervision organization for TCE would consist of a joint foreign/domestic core
supervision team to be established with four foreign engineers (with a total of 110 person-months), with
expertise in project/contract management, earth and pavement works, and traffic engineering. The core team
would also include four domestic engineers and would be supported by a central laboratory to be staffed with
10 qualified domestic experts. For field supervision of 11 ICB civil works contracts, four resident engineer's



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 48                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
offices (REO) would be established in Linxiang, Yueyang, Dajin and Guangfu staffed with 110 persons.
There would also be a logistics staff comprising 43 persons. A total of 177 domestic supervisors would be
engaged corresponding to roughly one person per km of expressway construction. Domestic supervising
engineers would provide some 8,400 person-months.
In Hubei, the supervision organization for construction of ZTE would consist of a joint foreign/domestic core
supervision team to be established with 4 foreign engineers (with a total of 108 person-months) with expertise
in project/contract management, earth and pavement works, and traffic engineering. This core team with 30
domestic staff will be located in Wuhan and will be supported by a central laboratory in Xianning to be staffed
with 10 qualified domestic experts. For field supervision of 9 ICB civil works contracts, REOs will be
established. They will be staffed with 130 domestic engineers for field supervision corresponding to more
than one engineer per km of expressway construction. Domestic supervising engineers will provide some
6,200 person-months. Supervision of civil works for other roads would be carried out by qualified domestic
supervision teams acceptable to the Bank.
Project Component 2 - Institutional Strengthening/Capacity Building
US$4.9 million (total cost of component)
Project Sub-Component 2.1 - Studies/technical assistance in highway maintenance management,
transport and trade integration, expressway commercialization and corporatization; and road
safety
For detailed information see Annexes 4 and 5.
Project Sub-Component 2.2 - Staff training programs, covering all aspects of highway planning,
design, construction, operation, finance and maintenance
The Training Programs under NH2 and NH3 already included a first attempt of training needs under the NH4
project. These Training Programs under NH2 and NH3, together with the outcome of the draft Institutional
and Policy Development Plans have formed the basis for the training and education needs under the NH4
project. Some of the training, as started under NH2 and NH3 will continue under NH4, e.g. training of
supervisors. However, under NH4 there will be an extended need of training in the fields of computerized
information systems, road safety, and quality control. In both provinces, the training programs for NH4
include the specific needs of training for the Training Institutes, the Design Institutes and the Research
Institutes with regard to their important roles in the development of the Hunan and Hubei highway sectors. In
a rapidly developing society as at present in China, training and education of personnel on all levels is
essential. Therefore, a systematic approach would be taken on training. This would also build upon the
outcomes of the World Bank financed TA presently being undertaken which is aiming at analyzing highway
sector training activities both in China and abroad and trying to systematize follow-up and evaluation of
training activities in the highway sector.
Project Component 3 - Front-end Fee
US$3.5 million (total cost of component)
Project Component 4 - Land Acquisition and Resettlement
US$60.6 million (total cost of component)



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 49                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
ANNEX 4: POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORM PROGRAM
Fourth National Highway Project
1.  Introduction
1.1    The economic system in China is undergoing major changes towards a market orientation and these
changes will involve many reforms in the transport sector. These reforms will put substantial pressure on
China's highway organizations and specifically on their manpower. Therefore, there is great need for modem
and new thinking which can be achieved through training and education, the use of modem methods and
equipment and through policy and institutional development. These issues were already discussed in part
under the Second National Highway Project (NH2) in Hunan and the Third National Highway Project (NH3)
in Hubei.
1.2    In discussions with the two PCDs in Hunan and Hubei, it was agreed that project activities under
Policy and Institutional Reform would need to be coordinated for NH2 and NH4 in Hunan and for NH3 and
NH4 in Hubei. This approach would generate a good degree of stability for policy and institutional reform
over a relatively long period of 6 years. The reform activities would concentrate on Institutional and Policy
Reforms.  Important areas in the development of modem  thinking in infrastructure planning and
implementation comprise road traffic safety, environmental issues and quality control. Structural and system
consequences of further steps towards a market economy will also need to be analyzed.
1.3    During NH4 preparation it was agreed by the Hunan and Hubei PCDs that the following should serve
as the guiding principles for the policy and institutional development process:
Since China's development direction is towards a socialist market economy, sector medium to long term
objectives would be:
(i)   to stimulate competition in the highway sector;
(ii)   to continuously increase the knowledge base of personnel;
(iii)  to improve the quality of products and services;
(iv)   to pay greater attention to environmental aspects;
(v)    to reduce the number of road traffic accidents; and
(vi)  to increase efficiency by developing and using modem equipment and management systems.
A.       HUTNAN PROVINCE
2.     Institutional Reforms
Institutional Development Plan
2.1    To create a framework for the concept of Institutional Development it was agreed that an Institutional
Development Plan for the coming 6 years would be developed. The Plan would serve as an overview of and
guideline for the entire process and cover organizational development and strengthening as well as training
and education needs, necessary equipment, and management systems. A draft Institutional Development Plan



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 50                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
was discussed and agreed during the NH4 pre-appraisal and appraisal missions in November 1998 and March
1999, respectively. The Plan covers the NFI12 and NH4 projects; it also outlines an estimated cost splitting
between the two projects. The Plan underlines the interrelationships between the development plan, the
training program, the management systems to be used and the equipment list. The plan would serve as the
basic document for future institutional development under the two Bank highway projects.
2.1.1   Actions agreed (Institutional Development Plan)
Outputs:   - An annual updated core document for the development of the highway sector.
Outcomes: - Continuing dialogue and development process over a period of 6 years, which leads to a
continuously improved and extended plan.
Indicators: - Annual update and progress report to be presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on
institutional development and road safety.
Organizational Development
2.2    Organizational development and strengthening activities as started under NH2 will be evaluated and
further developed under NH4. The important role of the Training Institutions in the change process from the
former planned economy to the new market oriented system has been reflected in the Training Program and so
have the strengthened roles of the Design Institute and the Research Institute. This is also in accordance with
the objectives expressed in the Institutional Development Plan.
2.3    During project preparation discussions were held about strengthening the Project Office by furnishing
it with specialists in road safety. These specialists would have a controller function and advice the Director of
the Project Office in road safety matters from the design stage until a project has been completed. Skilled
personnel who will be given special training abroad in management and the use of modem techniques and
methods would be appointed. After completing the NH4 project, these professionals would be given
permanent positions within HPCD where the best use of their know-how can be made. HPCD has agreed to
furnish the Project Office with road safety expertise in accordance with the above. The Bank received a work
program for the road safety controller function. The program was jointly reviewed by the Bank and HPCD and
agreed at negotiations.
2.3.1   Actions agreed (Road Safety Specialists)
Outputs:   - Documentation of findings (good as well as bad) and experiences gained, e.g. from
countermeasures carried out.
- Execution of safety components under the project.
Outcomes: - Increased know-how on safety.
- Increased road safety activities under NH2 and NH4 projects.
- Road safety work to be institutionalized under HPCD.
Indicators: - The results would be presented at the yearly TEA meeting and at the annual HPCD and Bank
mission progress workshop.
- Work reports after completion of each stage of work.
- Final reports on lessons learned and recommendations.
- In a longer perspective reduced number of serious accidents (before and after introduction of
findings and what has been developed).



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 51                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Training and Education
2.4    The Training Program agreed under NH2 together with the Institutional Development Plan have
formed the basis for the training and education needs under the NH4 project. Some of the training that was
started under NH2 will continue under NH4, e.g. training of supervisors. However, under NH4 there is an
extended need of training in the field of computerized information systems, road safety and quality control.
There are also specific training needs for the Training Institutes, the Design Institute and the Research Institute
with regard to their important roles in the future development of the Highway Sector in Hunan. This has all
been reflected in the NH4 training program. It was agreed that the training program that would be adjusted
annually would be in accordance with what is outlined in the Institutional Development Plan and what has
been stated in the previous two sections above. The training to be executed in 1999 and 2000 has already been
coordinated with the training under the NH2 project. In total, there are 110 staff who would attend overseas
training and 499 staff who shall attend domestic training under NH4. The total cost for overseas training under
NH4 is estimated at about US$ 0.96 million. The revised version of the training program (NH2 and NH4)
complete with planned overseas training and domestic training was sent to the Bank and agreed at
negotiations.
2.4.1   Actions agreed (Training and Education)
Outputs:   - Number of people that have taken part in the training according to the program.
Outcomes: - New know-how in use.
Indicators: - Percentage of trained staff who are able to use the new know-how in their daily work.
- Progress report presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional development
and road safety.
- To fulfill its purpose, the training program shall be revised and extended every second year.
Management Systems
Road Information System (Road Data Bank)
2.5.   The basic prerequisite for all modem management of roads is precise and timely information about the
actual status of the road networks and the traffic and its environment. This information is used on a day to day
basis both for planning, construction and maintenance activities as well as for monitoring and evaluation of
work carried out. This information is normally stored in a Computerized Data Bank (Road Data Bank or
RDB). Without this easily accessible information it would not be rational to have other management systems
such as PMS and BMS.
2.6    A study as initiated under NH2 on Highway Maintenance Management will support the development
of PMS and BMS. These two systems are directly interrelated with the Road Data Bank since they will
receive part of their input data from the RDB.
2.7   In November 1997 the Bank preparation mission was informed that there is an ongoing project aiming
at introduction of a Road Data Bank in Hunan Province. This RDB shall be designed and developed in
accordance with the model developed by MOC, which has already been introduced in several other provinces
in China. In this way, HPCD can benefit from the experiences gained in these provinces where the RDB is
already installed. It could possibly also get some TA services from there. In line with this approach, the
training of technical staff involved in the development and application of the RDB would take place in China.
2.8    During NH4 pre-appraisal and appraisal the Bank received progress reports on the development of the
RDB in Hunan. A technical team has been established, on the provincial level and in each of the prefectures
for the development work on RDB. Two training courses on RDB have been carried out in April 1998.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 52                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Guidelines for data collection are under development by using the experiences gained in other provinces. A
leading group at the provincial level will carry out supervision on the progress in each prefecture and a special
technical group at the provincial level will supervise the technical staff working on the RDB in the various
prefectures. The provincial data bank is planned to be established by the end of 1999 and the RDB on the
prefecture level as well as on the provincial level is planned to be in operation in 2003. The concept of RDB
development was agreed. It was also agreed that a detailed review of the ongoing RDB development would be
carried out during the coming Bank supervision missions under NH4.
2.8.1   Actions agreed (Road Information System, RDB)
Outputs:   - Phase 1, establishment of a provincial RDB by the end of 1999.
- Phase 2, establishment and application of RDB in each prefecture and city of the province, by
the end of 2003.
Outcomes: - Phase 1, an RDB system consistent with MOC recommendations and adjusted to the needs in
Hunan Province.
- Phase 2, integrated with the PMS and BMS systems it will lead to increased   efficiency  in
planning and maintenance of roads, which in a longer termn perspective will have a positive
effect on traffic flow, traffic safety and quality of work carried out.
Indicators: - Phase 1, a progress report would be available and presented at the HPCD/Bank mission
progress workshop in October 1999.
- Phase 2, by the end of year 1999 the Leading Group shall give its final acceptance for the
implementation of RDB in the whole Province (Prefecture and City level).
- The RDB system on all levels shall be in operation by the end of 2003.
- Progress reports shall be presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional
development and road safety.
Quality Management System
2.9    Changes in the Highway Sector in Hunan will create more pressure on quality. Good quality,
specifically in the area of civil works construction, is a crucial factor when shifting to an increased use of
contractors, and this is a shared responsibility between the Highway Administration as owner, the contractors
and the supervision engineers.
2.10   Given that the Bank has been and continues to remain involved in the Highway Sector in China since
15 years, with over 20 highway projects and in excess of US$4.0 billion in lending, substantial experience in
engineering, construction, supervision and quality control has been accumulated. Big differences have been
noticed by Bank highway staff in the quality of construction among highway projects in different provinces,
among highway projects in the same province, and even among contracts on the same highway project. Many
of the domestic contractors employed in these projects have shown to be capable of producing good quality
high-grade road works but frequently not consistently over time.
2.11   The Bank and HPCD have discussed over an extended period how to improve the Quality
Management System  for road works.  This dialogue would result in recommendations and their
implementation on a Quality Management System suitable for the conditions of civil works construction in
Hunan Province. The system would focus on the design, construction and maintenance of roads and be easy to
understand and apply on road works in the Province.
2.12   The Hunan Provincial Communication and Construction Quality Supervision Station (HPCCQSS)
was established in 1994 and ever since has been responsible for all quality control matters within the Highway
Administration. It was agreed that a programn would be undertaken to strengthen the HPCCQSS with modem
know-how (including four staff to be trained in quality control management), modem equipment and software.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 53                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
After completion of the training, the new quality control management system would be tested and evaluated
under the NH4 project. A program on the strengthening of HPCCQSS was jointly reviewed and agreed.
2.12.1 Actions agreed (Quality Control Unit Development Program)
Outputs:   - Quality assurance key factors checklist.
- A system for quality control.
- An organizational set up on Provincial and Prefecture level.
Outcomes: - Increased focus on quality.
- Increased know how through training and education.
- Quality control being institutionalized as part of HPCD.
- A systematic operation and management process for improved quality in the Province.
- Increased percentage of work with good quality.
Indicators: - Progress report on experiences obtained, 1999.
- Progress report on checklist preparation, 1999.
- Progress report on training in the yearly workshop, 1999-2000.
- Progress reports on results achieved, 2000- 2002.
- Final report on quality improvements made, 2002.
- The model should gradually be applied on road activities in the whole Province.
- Progress reports presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank should cover problems,
measures taken, and results.
3.     Policy Reforms
Development of Competition in the Highway Sector
3.1    To increase the efficiency of the highway sector, there is an urgent need to use the power of
competition.  Competition will certainly affect both the competing contractors outside the Highway
Administration and the force account units within the Highway Administration. If there is a solid desire to
increase the competition in the sector, it should be the responsibility of the Highway Administration.
3.2    Continued discussions were held about how to increase competition in the Highway Sector in a way
that could be acceptable and feasible. During the NH4 preparation process, a suggestion on a stepwise process
was introduced, as follows:
* Creation of initial competition within the Highway Sector for road maintenance, by establishing a number
of internal maintenance "companies" and by providing them with manpower and equipment. These
"companies" would bid in competition on various maintenance activities within a specified geographical
area of the road network.
* Successful "companies" would earn more money than the less successful ones.
* After a certain period of time, the most successful "companies" could become independent companies and
establish themselves in the market, either as public contracting corporations or, preferably, as private or at
least public/private contractors.
3.3   It was agreed that the above-suggested development process of the maintenance policy and
organizational framework is interrelated with the work being carried out under the Highway Maintenance
Study and therefore should be integrated as a part of that process which is underway under NH2. HPCD has
drafted a program on how this process could be introduced in a stepwise fashion. This program which was
reviewed and discussed during NH4 pre-appraisal and appraisal was found to be well structured and
constitutes a realistic first development step towards the contracting out of maintenance works and the creation
of a provincial maintenance contracting industry. However, during pre-appraisal and appraisal missions it was
agreed that the program needed to be revised, updated and completed. The mission received a revised



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 54                      Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
program as regards development of competition in the highway sector. It was reviewed and agreed at
negotiations.
3.3.1   Actions agreed (Development of Competition)
Outputs:   - Organizational simplification and functional changes.
- A new maintenance management model (policy).
- System reform as regards staffing, labor organization and deployment (policy).
- Reform of maintenance operation (policy).
Outcomes:  - Increased competition in road maintenance.
- Adapted market oriented management philosophy.
- Increased efficiency in maintenance work.
- Improved cost/outcome know-how on all levels.
- Improved personnel resource planning.
- Increased percentage of roads in good condition.
Indicators:  -Progress report on training coupled to the component.
- Progress report on development and execution of the bidding system for maintenance work.
- Progress report on the trial stage.
- Progress report on the spreading stage: (i) maintenance firms to be established in 60% of the
highway bureaus at the county level in all Prefectures, year 2000; (ii) new employment system
to be introduced in highway bureaus on the county level; (iii) management by objectives
(MBO) being introduced.
- Progress report on the completion stage: (i) establishment of maintenance firms in the whole
Province to be completed;. (ii) employment system to be executed for leaders in the highway
bureaus at Prefecture level; (iii) MBO for leaders developed; (iv) promotion of the new
deployment system.
- Progress report on staff planning and how it has been solved in practice.
- Progress reports to be presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional
development and road safety.
- Final report 2004.
Road Classification
3.4    The functional classification of road networks is a rather permanent but also an evolving process for
development of the road network. It must be undertaken periodically, especially when substantial changes
have occurred in the location of residences, economic activities, or within geographical area boundaries, when
trade routes are recast, when major changes in transport policies occur or when travel patterns have altered.
3.5    Often road reclassification leads to a more efficient road network, one which is consistent either with
occurred changes in economic development or planned changes. In both cases the updated functional
classification enables better allocation of tight funds for maintenance, rehabilitation/reconstruction, upgrading
or new construction to reach the policy objectives.
3.6    In November 1997 the Bank was informed that a review of the classification of the road network in
Hunan Province had been ongoing for some time and that this exercise was completed in August 1997. This
will lay a good foundation for the future dialogue on, among other things, the development of maintenance
standards in the Province (see section on Maintenance Cost and Fund Allocation Study below).



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 55                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Studies
Maintenance Cost and Fund Allocation Study
3.7   In China today, there is a great need for new road capacity and the volume of new roads under
construction is at present the highest in the world. However, the maintenance of existing roads will in the near
future, if maintenance continues to be neglected, become a growing problem. Lack of adequate maintenance
will in due time affect the whole transport system, with negative effects on the development of the economy.
3.8   It has been agreed that a study would be carried out to develop a suitable system (including a new
Policy) for the allocation of funds for road maintenance. The first step towards such as system and policy
would be to define the lowest acceptable maintenance standard level for each class of road in the network. A
'cost per kilometer of road' estimate should be identified to achieve the defined minimum level. This in turn
would make it possible to optimize the fund allocation and distribution on various administrative levels (i.e.
provincial, prefecture and city) with due regard to identified demands from the economy's point of view. This
study will be closely related to the Highway Maintenance Management Study under NH2. It was therefore
agreed to integrate the maintenance cost and fund allocation study into the Highway Maintenance
Management Study work.
3.9    An Expressway Commercialization and Corporatization Study and a Highway Maintenance Management
Study are being carried out under NH2. The Highway Maintenance Management Study is almost a prerequisite for
the ongoing development of PMS and BMS. As regards the Expressway Commercialization and Corporatization
Study which will analyze the options available to Hunan to establish a provincial toll road corporation or authority,
MOF and MOC will need to be involved during implementation of study results under NH4. HPCD confirmed that
it has the firm intention to start the implementation of results from the two studies as soon as possible.
3.9.1   Actions agreed (Highway Maintenance Management and Maintenance Cost and Fund Allocation Studies)
Outputs:   - A long term activity plan.
- A conceptual model on PMS and BMS systems integrated with the RDB.
- A maintenance cost and fund allocation model.
Outcomes: - A sustainable system for maintenance activities.
- Increased efficiency by using PMS, BMS and RDB.
- Principles on fund allocation (policy).
Indicators: - Principles on fund allocation approved by HPCD by the end of 2000.
- Introduction of PMS and BMS should be coordinated with the RDB development so these
three systems could benefit from each other.
- Long term maintenance activity plan should be available 24 months after commencing the
study.
- Progress reports to be presented at the yearly workshops with the Bank on institutional
development and road safety.
3.9.2   Actions agreed (Expressway Commercialization and Corporatization Study)
Outputs:   - A report on options to establish a Provincial Toll Road Corporation/Authority.
Outcomes: - Increased efficiency to administer toll roads in the Province.
Indicators: - The principles agreed on by higher governmental level.
- Establishment of such an organization under NH4.
- Evaluation report 2 years after the establishment.
- Progress reports to be presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional
development and road safety.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 56                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Hunan-Hubei Transport and Trade Integration Study
3.10   The NH4 project would also include a Transport and Trade Integration Study for Hunan and Hubei
Provinces, to be jointly executed by the Hunan and Hubei PCDs. Agreement was reached that the study would
concentrate on inter-provincial transport and trade issues in the Wuhan - Changsha expressway corridor which
will link the two inland economies of Hunan and Hubei more closely together, once the expressway under
NH4 is completed. The Bank had earlier provided the two HPCDs with sample TOR of a similar study from
Guangdong Province. During appraisal the mission received a revised version of the TOR for the Hunan-
Hubei Transport and Trade Integration Study which was agreed.
3.10.1  Actions agreed (Hunan-Hubei Transport and Trade Integration Study)
Outputs:    -Report on the existing situation and a prediction until year 2020.
Outcomes:   -A basis for planning of investments in various transport modes and facilities.
Indicators:   -The startup seminar in the beginning.
-The seminar at the end of the study.
-Progress report at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional development and road
safety.
B.       HUBEI PROVINCE
4.    Institutional Reforms
Institutional Development Plan
4.1    To create a framework for the concept of Institutional Development it has been agreed that an
Institutional Development Plan for the coming 6 years would be developed. The Plan would serve as an
overview of and guide for the entire process and cover organizational development and strengthening as well
as training and education needs, necessary equipment, and management systems. The Plan will cover the NH3
and NH4 projects, it would also outline the estimated cost splitting between the two projects. The mission
received a draft version of the Institutional Development Plan and it was agreed.
4.1.1   Actions agreed (Institutional Development Plan)
Outputs:   - An annual updated core document for the development of the highway sector.
Outcomes: - Continuing dialogue and development process over a period of 6 years, which leads to a
continuously improved and extended plan.
Indicators: - Annual update and progress report to be presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on
institutional development and road safety.
Organizational Development
4.2    Organizational development and strengthening activities started under NH3 and will be evaluated and
further developed under NH4. The important role of the Training Institutions in the change process from the
former planned economy to the new market oriented system has now been reflected in the Training Program
and so have the strengthened roles of the Design Institute and the Research Institute. This is also in
accordance with the objectives expressed in the Institutional Development Plan.
4.3    Under the NH3 project, the Project Office has been strengthened by adding competence in the fields
of Road Traffic Safety, Quality Control and the Enviromnent. This was achieved by creating three specialist
units for these matters. These units will cooperate closely with other organizations concerned and their staff



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 57                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
will undergo special training abroad. Part of that training will be carried out under NH4. These three units are
now in operation and will concentrate on making sure that these three important project areas are adequately
covered in the Bank's two highway projects (NH3 and NH4). The work program for the new units was agreed
during pre-appraisal and appraisal missions.
4.3.1   Actions agreed (Road Safety Unit)
Outputs:   - Documentation of findings (good as well as bad) and experiences gained, e.g. from
countermeasures carried out.
Outcomes: - Increased know-how on safety.
- Increased road safety activities under NH3 and NH4 projects.
- Road safety work to be institutionalized under HPCD.
Indicators: - The results should be presented at the yearly TEA meeting and at the annual HPCD and Bank
mission progress workshop.
- In a longer perspective a reduced number of serious accidents, measured 2 years after project
completion.
4.3.2   Actions agreed (Quality Control Unit and Quality Management System)
Outputs:   - Project Office strengthened by establishment of the quality control unit.
- Documentation of standards (policy) for road related products and services.
- A system for quality control.
Outcomes: - Increased focus on quality.
- Quality control being institutionalized as part of HPCD.
- A systematic operation and management process for improved quality in the Province.
Indicators: - The Leading group has approved the quality standards (policies), by the end of 1999.
- The model should gradually be applied on road activities in the whole Province in accordance
with the work plan (and not wait until the project period is over).
- Progress report presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank (problems, measures taken,
and results) on institutional development and road safety.
Training and Education
4.4    The Training Program that was earlier prepared under NH3 also included a first attempt of training
needs under the NH4 project. The agreed Training Program under NH3 together with the draft Institutional
Development Plan have formed the basis for the training and education needs under the NH4 project. Some of
the training has started under NH3 and will continue under NH4, e.g. training of supervisors. However, under
NH4 there will be an extended need for training in the field of computerized information systems, road safety
and quality control. This is well documented in the training program for NH4. The training program under
NH4 has been structured in the same way as the one under NH3. This is to ensure full compatibility and
coordination between the two programs. The Bank has received a final version of the Training Program and it
was agreed at negotiations.
4.4.1   Actions agreed (Training and Education)
Outputs:   - Number of people that have taken part in the training according to the program.
Outcomes: - New know-how in use.
Indicators: - Percentage of trained staff who are able to use the new know-how at the daily work.
- Progress report presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional development
and road safety.
To fulfill its purpose, the training program shall be revised and extended every second year.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 58                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Management Systems
Quality Management System
4.5    Changes in the Highway Sector in Hubei will create more pressure on quality. Good quality,
specifically in the area of civil works construction, is a crucial factor when shifting to increased use of
contractors, and it is a shared responsibility between the Highway Administration as owner, the contractors
and the supervision engineers.
4.6    Given that the Bank has been involved in the Highway Sector in China since 15 years, with over 20
highway projects and in excess of US$4.0 billion in lending, substantial experience in engineering,
construction, supervision and quality control has been accumulated. Big differences have been noticed by
Bank highway staff in the quality of construction among highway projects in different provinces, among
highways in the same province, and even among contracts on the same highway project. Many of the
domestic contractors employed in these projects have shown to be capable of producing good quality high-
grade roads, but frequently not consistently over time.
4.7    The quality problems in Hubei would be tackled in two steps: First, quality standard levels for various
products and services would be defined (a policy) to guide the supervision and control of quality. Secondly, a
suitable system for how to ensure good quality and how to control it would be developed. The know-how
regarding quality matters needs to be available within the organization, given that work for improving the
quality is a never ending process. Basically, it is a matter of attitude and know-how.
4.8    A Quality Control Unit has been established in the Project Office. It would develop routines as well
as a program on how to identify suitable quality standards for various road related activities (products and
services). The work would be based on what has already been developed by MOC and would result in
recommendations on quality standards suitable for the conditions in Hubei Province. This development work
would focus on the design, construction and maintenance of roads and the resulting quality control system
should be easy to understand and apply on road works in the Province.
4.9    The Bank has received a revised program for the Quality Control Unit and it was agreed at
negotiations.
4.9.1   Actions agreed (Quality Management System)
(see under Organizational Development 4.3.2)
Road Informnation System (Road Data Bank)
4.10   The basic prerequisite for modem management of roads is precise and timely information about the
actual status of the road networks and the traffic and its environment. This information is used on a day to day
basis both for planning, construction and maintenance activities and for monitoring and evaluation of works
carried out. This information is normally stored in a Computerized Data Bank (Road Data Bank or RDB).
Without this easily accessible information it would not be rational to have other management systems such as
PMS and BMS since they receive some input data from the RDB. A study on Highway Maintenance
Management is being executed under NH3 and will cover the need of integration between all these systems.
4.11   Past experience from other countries has clearly shown that it is feasible to build up in a stepwise
fashion an Information System based on a Road Data Bank (RDB). The information covered in a first phase
should include only basic data. A limited geographical test area would be chosen and all types of data as
needed would be collected and stored from that test area. This makes it possible to test and adjust the system
before implementing it in the whole Province. In Hubei Province Ezhou city has been chosen as test area. To



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 59                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
develop and implement an RDB system would normally take 2-3 years. However, by using the experiences
gained in other provinces in China the development time can be shortened. Hubei Province has been in
contact with Shanxi Provincial Communications Department which has successfully developed an RDB
system. Based on the experiences gained in Shanxi Province TOR for the initial phase of the RDB
development have been developed and agreed during project appraisal.
4.11.1 Actions agreed (Road Information System, RDB)
Outputs:   - Phase 1, on a small scale development and testing of an RDB system in the test area of Ezhou
city (National and Provincial roads only).
- Phase 2, distribution and application of RDB in each prefecture and city of the province.
Outcomes: - Phase 1, an RDB system consistent with the MOC recommendations and adjusted to the initial
needs in Hubei Province.
- Phase 2, integrated with the PMS and BMS systems it will lead to an increased efficiency in
planning and maintenance of roads, which in a longer perspective will have a positive effect on
traffic flow, traffic safety and quality of work carried out.
Indicators: - Phase 1, progress reports should be available every six months, and a final report not later than
18 months from project start.
- Phase 2, by the end of year 2000 the Leading Group shall give its final acceptance for the
implementation of RDB in the whole Province.
- The system shall be in full operation in 2003.
- Progress reports (phase 1 and 2) shall be presented during the yearly workshop with the Bank
on institutional development and road safety.
5.     Policy Reforms
Development of Competition in the Highway Sector
5.1    To increase the efficiency of the highway sector, there is an urgent need to use the power of
competition. Competition will certainly affect both the competing contractors outside the Highway
Administration and the force account units within the Highway Administration. Contractors outside the
Highway Administration need to improve their know-how since they have so far in Hubei not been in a
situation allowing them to learn how to carry out maintenance activities. Accordingly, they are lacking know-
how about, e.g. the requirements of quality and service levels in road maintenance.
5.2    Referring to the basic principles that have been agreed with HPCD in Hubei to guide the work of
developing and strengthening competition in the Highway Sector, it should be a responsibility of the Highway
Administration to stimulate the organizations outside the Highway Administration to enable them to become
competent partners. During NH4 project preparation continued discussions were held about a concept on how
to increase competition in a way that could be acceptable and feasible and that would give due respect to the
administrative and cultural obstacles which at present are at hand. The Bank was informed that during the last
few years HPCD has initiated such steps by establishing a number of internal engineering (i.e. maintenance)
"companies" under HPCD and by giving them both manpower and equipment. These "companies" are bidding
in competition on various maintenance activities within a specified geographical area of the road network.
Successful "companies" earn more money than the less successful ones and they are allowed to use their funds
to develop their ability and compete in the market.
5.3    To continue the development of competition in the Highway Sector it has been agreed that a study
would be carried out to identify the organizations outside the Highway Administration which possibly, in the
near future, could become competent partners for carrying out maintenance works. After having analyzed the



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 60                      Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
list of such organizations a decision would be made on carrying out a test in a limited geographical area to
compare the cost as well as the quality of the works carried out by contractors with similar works carried out
by force account units (or by "internal companies" under HPCD). During appraisal mission a draft program
for this study was discussed and agreed.
5.3.1   Actions agreed (Development of Competition)
Outputs:   - A list of firms/companies inside as well as outside the Highway Administration sector that
would be capable to carry out periodic as well as routine maintenance work.
- Testing of such firms/companies in a limited test area.
- Analysis and documentation of the results with regard to costs and quality.
Outcomes: - A survey of the local market.
- Increased competition.
- A comparison between force account and "outside firms" regarding costs and quality which
leads to increased know-how about the efficiency level.
Indicators: - The list should be available after 2 months from start.
- Selection procedure finished 2 months thereafter.
- Establishment and start of the test I month after the firms have been selected.
- Test period would last for 2 years.
- Successive follow-up and progress reports every 6 months.
- Progress presentation at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional development and
road safety.
- Evaluation report to be presented 2 months after finishing the test.
Road Classification
5.4    The functional classification of road networks is a rather permanent but also an evolving process for
development of the road network. It must be undertaken periodically, especially when substantial changes
have occurred in the location of residences, economic activities, or within geographical area boundaries, when
trade routes are recast, when major changes in transport policies occur or when travel patterns have altered.
5.5    Often reclassification leads to a more efficient road network, one which is consistent either with
occurred changes in economic development or planned changes. In both cases the updated functional
classification enables better allocation of tight funds for maintenance, rehabilitation/reconstruction, upgrading
or new construction to reach the policy objectives.
5.6    The Hubei PCD informed the Bank that the review of the classification of the road network in Hubei
Province has not yet been started since MOC has not so far initiated this review. However, when such a
review will be carried out it will lay a good foundation for the future dialogue on, among other things, the
development of maintenance standards in the Province (see section on Maintenance Cost and Fund Allocation
Study below).
Studies
5.7    An Expressway Commercialization and Corporatization Study and a Highway Maintenance
Management Study are being carried out under NH3. The Highway Maintenance Management Study is
almost a prerequisite for the ongoing development of PMS and BMS. As regards the Expressway
Commercialization and Corporatization Study which will analyze the options available to Hubei to establish a
provincial toll road corporation or authority, MOF and MOC will need to be involved during implementation
of the study results under NH4. HPCD confirmed that it has the firm intention to start implementation of the



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 61                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
results from the two studies as soon as possible. The appraisal mission reviewed and agreed cost estimates for
implementation of results of the two studies.
5.7.1   Actions agreed (Highway Maintenance Study)
Outputs:   - A long term activity plan.
- PMS and BMS systems integrated with the RDB.
- A maintenance cost and fund allocation model.
Outcomes: - A sustainable system for maintenance activities.
- Increased efficiency by using PMS, BMS and RDB.
- Principles on fund allocation (policy).
Indicators: - Principles on fund allocation decided on by the Leading Group by the end of 1999.
- The introduction of PMS and BMS should be coordinated with the RDB development so these
three systems could benefit from each other.
- The long term maintenance activity plan should be available 24 months after commencing the
study.
- Progress reports to be presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional
development and road safety.
5.7.2   Actions agreed (Expressway Commercialization and Corporatization Study)
Outputs:   - A report on options to establish a Provincial Toll Road Corporation/Authority.
Outcomes: - Increased efficiency to administer toll roads in the Province.
Indicators: - The principles agreed on by MOF and MOC.
- Establishment of such an organization under NH4.
- Evaluation report 2 years after the establishment.
* Progress reports for every 6 months and presentation at the yearly workshop with the Bank on
institutional development and road safety.
Maintenance Cost and Fund Allocation Study
5.8   In China today, there is a great need for new road capacity and the volume of new roads under
construction is at present the highest in the world. However, the maintenance of existing roads will in the near
future, if maintenance continues to be neglected, become a growing problem. Lack of adequate maintenance
will in due time affect the whole transport system, with negative effects on the development of the economy.
5.9   It has been agreed that a study would be carried out to develop a suitable system (including a new
Policy) for the allocation of funds for road maintenance. The first step for such a system and policy would be
to define the lowest acceptable maintenance standard level for each class of road in the network. A 'cost per
kilometer of road' estimate should be identified to achieve the defined minimum level. This in turn would
make it possible to optimize the fund allocation and distribution on various administrative levels (i.e.
provincial, prefecture and city) with due regard to identified demands from the economy's point of view. This
study is closely related to the Highway Maintenance Management Study under NH3. It was therefore agreed
to integrate the maintenance cost and fund allocation study into the Highway Maintenance Management Study.
5.9.1   Actions agreed (Maintenance Cost and Fund Allocation Study)
have been integrated as part of the Highway Maintenance Study (see para. 5.7.1)



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 62                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Hunan-Hubei Transport and Trade Integration Study
5.10   The NH4 project would also include a Transport and Trade Integration Study for Hubei and Hunan
Provinces, to be jointly executed by Hunan and Hubei PCDs. Agreement was reached that the study would
concentrate on inter-provincial transport and trade issues in the Wuhan - Changsha expressway corridor which
would link the two inland economies of Hubei and Hunan more closely together, once the expressway under
NH4 is completed. The Bank had earlier provided the two HPCDs with sample TOR for a similar study from
Guangdong Province. During appraisal revised TOR for the Transport and Trade Integration Study were
agreed.
5.10.1 Actions agreed ( Hunan-Hubei Transport and Trade Integration Study)
Outputs:    -Report on the existing situation and a prediction until year 2020.
Outcomes:   -A basis for planning of investments in various transport modes and facilities.
Indicators:   -The startup seminar in the beginning.
-The seminar at the end of the study.
-Progress report at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional development and
road safety



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 63                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
ANNEX 5: ROAD TRAFFIC SAFETY PROGRAM
Fourth National Highway Project
1.   Introduction
1.1  The road traffic accident situation in Hunan and Hubei Provinces, similar to other provinces and regions
in China, is already serious, and as a result of rapidly increasing motorization and vehicle use, road traffic
safety is becoming an even more serious problem which needs to be tackled in a systematic way. Actions to
reduce road accidents and their consequences in terms of injuries and loss of life, damages to property and
economic losses cover many fields. In Hunan and Hubei Provinces, as elsewhere in China, the responsibility
for road traffic safety rests with the transport sector (HPCD) as well as with the public security sector (Traffic
Police). The coordination lies with the Provincial Governments. The two HPCDs retain full responsibility for
all aspects of road traffic safety in highway design, construction and maintenance.
A. Hunan Province
2.   Road Traffic Safety
Development of Accident Information System (AIS)
2.1  The accident information system which is with the Public Security Sector (the Traffic Police) needs to
be further developed and modernized to be able to serve the main purposes for road safety work in a broader
perspective. Internal discussions in Hunan have started under the Traffic Engineering Association (TEA) in
which the Traffic Police as well as HPCD are represented. As a result of these discussions, the Research
Institute of the Public Security Sector and the Research Institute of HPCD have formed a working group for
the development of a functional AIS covering the needs of both organizations. A prototype of such a system
has now been developed and is ready for testing on the northern part of NR1O7. Data has been collected and a
field survey is ongoing. The intention is to have it established for the northern part of NR107 during the NH2
project implementation period. The development work will continue aiming at having a system in place which
can be used for other roads in Hunan as well.
2.2  Under NH4, HPCD has agreed to establish the AIS over the whole length of NR107 as well as starting
up the development of AIS for the existing and fast growing expressway network in the province with the
intention to have it in operation during the NH4 project implementation period. The Bank has provided HPCD
with several examples of accident register forms used by the traffic police in other countries.
2.2.1 Actions agreed (Development of AIS)
Outputs:     -An accident information system model adjusted for the needs of HPCD as well as for the
Traffic Police on the whole length of NR107.
-An accident information system built on the experiences gained on NR107 for the whole
expressway network in Hunan Province.
Outcomes:   -The AIS serves as an important information basis for decisions on measures to improved road
safety.
-The AIS serves as an important instrument to follow up results of measures taken.
-Increased know-how about where and under which circumstances
accidents have occurred.
- Increased cooperation with the Traffic Police.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 64                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Indicators:   -Progress reports at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional development and road
safety.
-Number of actions taken on NR107 based on the outcome from AIS.
-Decision on implementing the AIS on all Expressways in Hunan Province.
Provincial Road Safety Council
2.3    Due to the limited coordination and cooperation between HPCD and the Traffic Police and since at
present there is no effective body for policy making and planning in the field of road traffic safety, a promising
approach would be to establish a more formal and organized form for cooperation, not only involving the
traffic police and HPCD but also other organizations concerned with road safety matters, e.g. health sector and
education sector institutions. Such cooperative forms have been established in many countries and are often
named Road Safety Council (RSC).
2.4    However, HPCD explained to the Bank that the difficulties in arranging such formalized cooperation
at this point in time are too many, due to the very strong administrative boundaries between the sectors
concerned. The Bank and HPCD therefore have agreed, at least for the time being, to wait with the initiation
of such an organization. However, the Bank is of the strong opinion that for the future and within a broader
highway sector reform perspective, such joint and well coordinated efforts among all concerned organizations
in Hunan are needed, if the continuously increasing number of road accidents is to be reduced and the road
traffic safety situation is to be improved in a serious manner.
Road Maintenance Safety Measures
2.5    Agreement with HPCD was reached to pay more attention to safety actions related to road
maintenance work. Therefore, a small study has been agreed to define the most cost-effective road safety
measures (low cost) within the field of maintenance. The study would result in a number of accident
prevention measures related to road maintenance activities. These could serve as good examples for
maintenance actions that will increase the road safety situation, and serve as guidance in supervision of the
road network. The examples from the study should be analyzed in detail and well documented so they are
easy to understand and would apply in the daily maintenance work. After their compilation they would be
distributed as recommendations to every maintenance unit on the local level (prefecture and city).
2.6   It was agreed that some examples on "road maintenance  related safety measures" would be
developed. The PCDs in Hunan and Hubei have agreed to develop an increased cooperation regarding the
development of safety activities in road maintenance. Accordingly, it was agreed that before further steps with
the Bank would be initiated, the outcome of these discussions between the Hunan and Hubei PCDs would need
to be awaited. The Bank expressed its support for such an initiative and emphasized the importance of
arranging the cooperation in a systematic way, so that both provinces would benefit from it in a long term
perspective as well as ensuring that the results will be implemented.
2.7   It was agreed that in the same way as HPCD in Hunan develops an accident information system (AIS)
from which Hubei Province will benefit, HPCD in Hubei Province would bare the main responsibility to
develop examples on road maintenance related safety measures from which Hunan Province will benefit. The
transferring of information and contribution from one another would take place in annual meetings between
the two provinces.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 65                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Road Safety Seminars
2.8    The principal purpose is to create a better understanding of the importance of improved road safety
through a series of Road Safety Seminars. The seminars started under NH2 and will continue under NH4.
There will be a lot of important outcomes from these, some of the outcomes would be implemented under NH4
project. The outcomes would be evaluated and documented. It was agreed that the TEA seminars would be
held on a yearly basis. To spread the road safety know-how more into the whole Province, Hunan will be
divided into six regions. During the NH4 project implementation period, seminars will be held once in each of
the six regions and an increased number of staff from the Prefectures and Counties will be invited to attend the
seminars. In this way, the whole province will benefit from the outcome of the TEA-seminars and this will
result in an increased awareness of the road safety problem.
2.8.1 Actions agreed (Road Traffic Safety Seminars)
Outputs:    -Documentation of presentations made at seminars.
Outcomes:   -Increased know-how about the road safety situation and how to tackle the problems.
Indicators:   -TEA-seminars to be held once a year during the project period.
-During the project period one road safety seminar (TEA) shall be held in each of the six
regions of the Province. The regional seminars should be built on experiences from other TEA
seminars.
Other Road Safety Activities (grouped)
2.9    Under NH2 a series of checklists is being developed for safety audit procedures in road planning and
design. The continuation would be to introduce these principles to the organizations concemed and make
them a routine to be used. Training courses need to be arranged for concemed engineers. It was agreed that
the Hunan Design Institute (DI) would use these check lists in practical design work to ensure that safety
aspects are considered at an early stage of project planning and design. The DI would as a first stage practice
the use of the checklists on several projects and thereafter evaluate the results and eventually suggest how to
improve the checklists before using them as a routine.
2.10   Under NH2 a study will be carried out on how to apply a scheme of the Safety Handbook issued by
MOC (safety at roadwork sites) to verify if the regulations could be improved so as to be used in Hunan
Province. A continuation could be to introduce these principles to the organizations concemed and make it a
routine to be used. Locally based training courses are needed. Therefore, it was agreed that a test should be
carried out in each Prefecture. Each Prefecture shall choose at least one project of significant size and when
carrying out the construction work or maintenance work use the manual for "safety at road-work sites"
developed under NH2. The results will be followed up with regard to the experienced safety for road workers
as well for the road users when passing the work sites.
2.11   Under NH2 a pilot road safety program (identification and remedy of black-spots) for the northem
part of NR1 07 will be carried out. The experiences gained will be compiled and a model will be developed on
identification and remedy of black-spots. A continuation would be to introduce these principles to the
organizations concemed and make it a routine to be used on other roads and road networks in the Province.
Locally based training courses are needed. It was agreed that under NH4 project the full length of NR107 will
be investigated with regard to existing black-spots. It was also agreed that remedy actions should be carried
out on these black-spots under the project period. Further more HPCD has the ambition to spread this know-
how on investigation and remedy of black-spots out into the whole Province. This will be done by presenting
yearly reports from the work on black-spots in the TEA-seminars.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 66                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
2.12   Actions agreed (Other Road Safety Activities)
Outputs:    -Documentation of models to be used in safety audit procedures as well as in safety at road
work sites and identification and remedy of black spots.
-Training program for concerned staff.
-Principles to be followed in the whole Province.
Outcomes:   -Increased know-how and ideas on some simple routines to be followed in the daily work,
which leads to improved road safety.
Indicators:   -Presentation of findings and experiences gained at the TEA seminar once a year.
-Presentation of the result at the annual workshop with the Bank on institutional development
and road safety.
-Number of prefectures where the new routines are in use.
-Number of black-spots remedied in accordance with the agreed plan.
B. Hubei Province
3.   Road Traffic Safety
Development of Accident Information System (AIS)
3.1    The need for an Accident Inforrnation System (AIS) has been discussed during NH4 project
preparation. It has been agreed that an Accident Information System is a good tool for planning and follow-up
of road traffic safety measures. The discussions have focused on the difficulties surrounding the practical
arrangements for introducing an AIS in Hubei, caused by the fact that the Public Security Sector is responsible
for the accident recording and the register, and that the register is not "open". The accident information
system which is with the Public Security Sector (the Traffic Police) also needs to be further developed and
modernized to become better able to serve the main purposes for road traffic safety work in a broader
perspective. The Bank has suggested that discussions in this matter should be initiated under the Hubei Traffic
Engineering Society (TES) where the Traffic Police as well as HPCD are well represented. A good
opportunity would be the forthcoming road safety seminars arranged by the TEA.
Provincial Road Safety Council
3.2    Due to the limited coordination and cooperation between HPCD and the Traffic Police and since at
present there is no effective body for policy making and planning in the field of road traffic safety, a promising
approach would be to establish a more formal and organized form for cooperation, not only involving the
traffic police and HPCD but also other organizations concerned with road safety matters, e.g. health sector and
education sector institutions. Such cooperative forms have been established in many countries and are often
named Road Safety Council (RSC).
3.3    However, HPCD explained to the Bank that the difficulties in arranging such formalized cooperation
at this point in time are too many, due to the very strong administrative boundaries between the sectors
concerned. The Bank and HPCD therefore have agreed, at least for the time being, to wait with the initiation
of such an organization. However, the Bank is of the strong opinion that for the future and within a broader
highway sector reform perspective, such joint and well coordinated efforts among all concerned organizations
in Hubei are needed, if the continuously increasing number of road accidents is to be reduced and the road
traffic safety situation is to be improved in a serious manner.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 67                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Road Safety Seminars
3.4    The principal purpose is to create a better understanding of the importance of improved road safety
through a series of Road Safety Seminars. The seminars started under NH3 and will continue under NH4.
There will be a lot of important outcomes from these, some of the outcomes could be implemented under NH4
project. The outcome should be evaluated and documented. It was agreed that besides the TEA seminars to be
held on a yearly basis in Wuhan a one day traffic safety seminar shall be arranged in each Prefecture. These
seminars should to the extent possible benefit from the TEA-seminars. The objective of these Prefecture
seminars is to increase the awareness about the road safety situation and the need to act.
3.4.1   Actions agreed (Road Traffic Safety Seminars)
Outputs:    -Documentation of presentations made at the seminars.
Outcomes:   -Increased know-how about the road safety situation and how to tackle the problems.
Indicators:   -TEA-seminars to be held once a year in Wuhan and during the project period a one-day safety
seminar shall be held in each of the Prefectures in the Province.
Other Road Safety Activities
3.5    Under NH4 a number of examples on Road Maintenance Safety Measures will be developed.
Agreement with HPCD was reached to pay more attention to safety actions related to road maintenance work.
Therefore, a small study has been suggested to define the most cost-effective road safety measures (low cost)
within the field of maintenance. The study would result in a number of accident prevention measures related
to road maintenance activities. These could serve as good examples for maintenance actions that will improve
the road safety situation, and serve as guidance in supervision of the road network. The examples from the
study should be analyzed in detail and well documented so they can serve as a useful tool in operational
maintenance work. They would be distributed to each maintenance unit on the local level (prefecture and
city).
3.6    The PCDs in Hunan and Hubei have agreed to discuss an increased cooperation regarding the
development of safety activities in road maintenance. Accordingly, it was agreed that before further steps with
the Bank would be initiated, the outcome of these discussions between the Hunan and Hubei PCDs would need
to be awaited. The Bank expressed its support for such an initiative and emphasized the importance of
arranging the cooperation in a systematic way, so that both provinces would benefit from it in a long term
perspective as well as ensuring that the results will be implemented.
3.7    Under NH3 a series of checklists will be developed for safety audit procedures in road design and
planning. A continuation would be to introduce these principles to the organizations concemed and make it a
routine to be used. Training courses need to be arranged for concemed engineers. It was agreed that the Design
Institute (DI) should use these checklists in practical design work in order to ensure that safety aspects are
considered in an early stage of project planning and design. The DI should as a first stage practice the use of
the checklists on several projects and thereafter evaluate the results and eventually suggest how to improve the
checklists before using them as a routine.
3.8    Under NH3 a study will be carried out on how to apply a scheme of the Safety Handbook issued by
MOC (safety at roadwork sites) to verify if the regulations could be improved so as to be used in Hubei
Province. A continuation could be to introduce these principles to the organizations concerned and make it a
routine to be used. Locally based training courses are needed. Therefore it was agreed that a test should be
carried out in each Prefecture. Each Prefecture shall choose at least one project of significant size and when
carrying out the construction work or maintenance work use the manual for "safety at road-work sites" as to be



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 68                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
developed under NH3. The results will be followed up with regard to the experienced safety for road workers
as well for the road users when passing the worksite.
3.9    Under NH3 a pilot road safety program (identification and remedy of black-spots) for the Wuhan -
Yichang Highway will be carried out. The experiences gained will be compiled and a model will be developed
on identification and remedy of black-spots. A continuation could be to introduce these principles to the
organizations concerned and make it a routine to be used on other roads and road networks in the Province.
Locally based training courses are needed. It was agreed that in each Prefecture at least one road of significant
length should be chosen and investigated with regard to black spots by using the model developed under NH3.
A program for the remedy of these black-spots shall be developed and after implementation a follow-up
analysis carried out. The results from the follow-up studies should be presented annually (e.g. on the TEA-
seminar) in order to give important safety know-how to the organizations.
3.10   Actions agreed (Other Road Safety Activities)
Outputs:    -Documentation of good examples and procedures aiming at improved road safety.
Outcomes:   -Increased know-how and ideas on some simple routines to be followed in the daily work,
which leads to improved road safety.
Indicators:   -Presentation of the results at the yearly TEA-seminar as well as at the annual workshop with
the Bank on institutional development and road safety.
-Number of black-spots remedied in accordance with the agreed plan.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 69                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
ANNEX 6: CHINA'S EVOLVING HIGHWAY PROGRAM AND
FINANCING ISSUES
Fourth National Highway Project
"Good roads, canals and navigable rivers, by diminishing the expense of carriage, put the remote parts
of the country more nearly upon a level with the neighborhood of towns. They are upon that account the
greatest of all improvements. " Adam Smith, An Enquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of
Nations, 1776.
1. Introduction
1.1 China's strong and sustained economic growth over the last 20 years has resulted in transport
demand growth faster than the capacity and ability of the system to deal with it. However, China has
historically underinvested in transport (less than 1.3% of GDP during 1980s compared to 3% in 1998),
and its road network ranks among the sparsest in the world relative to geographic area and population. A
few inter-provincial expressways have been built to date and about 20% of rural communities have no all-
weather vehicular access. In recent years, governments at all levels have embarked on a major highway
capital investment and improvement program.
1.2 At the end of 1998, China's road network exceeded 1.26 million km, but only a small part of the
system, some 5,500 km, consisted of high capacity toll expressways, and another 15,000 km of other toll
highways.
1.3 China is confronting a demand for new highway development and financing not presently
experienced elsewhere in the world. China is making significant progress in revenue raising and
construction funding, but continued progress will likely depend on the implementation of: (i) a well-
defined legal and regulatory framework for private investors; (ii) a comprehensive system for raising and
allocating highway user fees and other forms of finance; and (iii) a mature relationship between central
government and the provinces to guide the financing and implementation of projects.
2. Scope of the Development Program
2.1 The focus of the national highway strategy is to complete the National Trunk Highway System
(NTHS) of some 35,000 km of high-grade highways during 1999-2015 at a total cost of US$150 billion.
Government attaches high priority to completing two north-south, two east-west corridors, and several
corridors serving border areas and cross-border trade. The Ministry of Communications (MOC) has been
developing the NTHS, consisting of 12 inter-provincial trunk expressways, spanning China and
connecting the countries 100 biggest cities. To date, some 7,500 km of the NTHS has been opened to
traffic.
2.2 Operating expressways by year-end 1998 totaled over 5,500 km in length. Present toll rates on
China's expressways average in the range of US$0.03-0.05 for passenger cars and US$0.10-0.15 for
buses, trucks, and other heavy vehicles. These levels are similar to toll rates in most other developing
countries in Asia and Latin America.
2.3. In 1997, China invested US$13 billion in highways, of which US$0.7 billion was in World Bank
loans (or about 5%). In 1998, to support the government's economic stimulus program (8% growth rate),
highway spending was raised to US$26 billion, a 100% increase from 1997. Some 55% of this



Project Appraisal Document                Page 70                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
investment (or US$14 billion) was allocated to NTHS construction, 30% (or US$8 billion) to provincial
road development and the remaining 15% (US$4 billion) to rural road improvement. World Bank
lending for highways in 1998 reached US$0.68 billion (or about 2.5% of the total). Annual multi- and
bilateral lending to the sector in recent years is about US$1.2-$1.5 billion, with about 45% from the
World Bank, 30% from ADB, and the remaining 25% from OECF.
2.4 Most observers agree that unless new sources of revenue are identified, China will experience a 30%
funding shortfall in the highway sector over the next 15 years. To address these growing requirements,
the country is exploring a variety of innovative financing techniques and sources of capital from both the
public and private sectors.
3. Ability to Mobilize Capital
3.1 China faces a difficult challenge in mobilizing sufficient resources to meet future needs for the
construction and maintenance of its highway system.
3.2 China's expanding financial markets are providing greater amounts of capital for new highway
development, and at the same time, insulating the country from the effects of the Asian financial crisis.
China's high personal savings rate has produced a total of over US$600 billion in the banking system in
1999, up 16.7% from last year. The government has targeted nearly US$40 billion in domestic debt
issuance this year, of which a large part will be used for infrastructure development.
3.3 The challenges are for China to develop more highway projects which are bankable and can be
evaluated on commercial lending criteria by local financial institutions. Many segments of the expanding
NTHS are without the initial traffic volumes and near-term toll revenue potential necessary for private
developers and commercial lenders to receive an adequate early return on their investment. Thus, the
responsibility for much of this expressway construction will continue to rest with central and provincial
highway agencies, and public revenues.
3.4 The central government has taken steps in recent months to shore-up the local financial sector in the
aftermath of the closure of Guangdong International Trust and Investment Corporation (GITIC) and
restructuring of many other ITICs due to their high foreign debt burden. Restrictions have been imposed
on unauthorized foreign borrowings by the provinces and to limit the flow of foreign capital out of the
country. The pace of highway asset securitization to raise private equity for new construction has also
slowed considerably in recent months. The number of highway projects that can be marketed (those with
strong traffic revenue potential) to private sector investors are insignificant compared to the sector's
resource requirements.
3.5 China's new Highway Law, which was passed in 1997 and became effective in January 1998,
provides for a new fuel tax to fund road construction and maintenance. This tax will possibly become
effective in 1999, and will replace the current road maintenance fee. Public sector revenues will continue
to be raised from passenger and freight surcharges, and various local fees and levies, including the
vehicle purchase surcharge. Taken together, these sources produce a modest share of the country's total
budget for highway development. Additional contributions from provincial entities, foreign and domestic
financial markets, and the private sector will be necessary.
3.6 China's capital markets are undergoing a transition, with relatively undeveloped capacity for long-
term infrastructure finance to a more dynamic, liquid supply of funding available on commercial terms
for major infrastructure projects. The central government attaches a high priority to the attraction of
foreign investment in highway projects, but in most cases, outside the coastal regions, these efforts have



Project Appraisal Document               Page 71                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
not been successful so far. There are few bankable projects which are attractive to private investors as
start-up toll roads, and this situation will likely not change in the foreseeable future. Coastal provinces
such as Guangdong, Zhejiang, and Jiangsu have benefited from a higher concentration of population and
economic activity, and thus, are able to attract private developers with projects having greater traffic and
revenue potential.
3.7 New toll road projects pose significant construction and start-up risks for private developers. In
addition, there are commercial risks which are related to future traffic volumes which are hard to define.
China's BOT policy framework for private investors is still in the formative stage and until finally
completed and implemented, new toll road projects with private investment are likely to be very few in
number.
3.8 China is encouraging its state banks to make commercial loans to provinces for accelerated highway
construction. These funds are available for a term of 5-10 years at rates comparable to the cost of U.S.
treasury bonds, approximately 6%-8% presently. This new emphasis by the central government on
improved capital flows for highways, among other sectors, is intended to help sustain China's GDP
growth at a level of 8% for the foreseeable future and to overcome immediate transport bottlenecks that
constrain economic growth.
3.9 Asset securitization is looked upon by the government as a viable technique for leveraging the value
of existing highway assets to raise new capital for the construction of additional expressways. Asset
securitization and China's approach to refinancing existing roads are intended to attract private investors
without the construction and traffic risks normally connected to start-up "greenfield" toll roads.
3.10 Since mid-1996, 12 transactions have been completed in Hong Kong and Shenzhen with the
issuance of H and B shares to foreign investors and another three transactions in Shenzhen with A shares
for domestic investors. Total capital raised from these listings exceeds US$2 billion.
3.11 Until the onset of the Asian financial crisis in 1997/98, provincial agencies were of the opinion that
share appreciation in the Hong Kong and Shenzhen equity markets would be enough to meet investors'
demands for 20% plus returns without the payment of sizeable dividends from earnings. Now, with the
downturn in the markets and flat, or volatile share prices over the past year, provincial attitudes may
change.
3.12 To underline the present weakness of the international markets, three (non-highway) H share issues
on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange have failed to materialize in early 1999. Circumstances are somewhat
different in China's A-share market, where highway transactions are under consideration in the Beijing-
Tianjin corridor and in Guangdong and Fujian, and possibly for other provinces in the near future.
4. Potential for Private Sector Participation
4.1 Since 1995, China's demand for private capital to finance its highway program continued at an
unabated pace, triggering the flow of an estimated US$5-6 billion in new highway capital from private
sources.
4.2 The bulk of the new capital from the private sector is equity investment. Over the past five years or
so, provincial highway agencies have engaged in over 70 cooperative joint venture toll road projects
valued at an estimated US$3-4 billion. These projects are almost always existing roads and bridges that
are refinanced under 20 to 30-year concessions by Hong Kong developers and mainland partners. The
proceeds are used to build or expand additional highways in the province. IFC has recently obtained



Project Appraisal Document               Page 72                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Board approval for its first investment in China's toll road sector, a US$16.1 million equity investment
for Shanghai Midway Corporation.
4.3 China's experience with BOT development of highway projects is still evolving. Although the
Junshan Bridge project was designated by the State Development and Planning Commission (SDPC) as
one of its four original pilot BOT projects in 1994, this bridge is now under construction as a public
sector project to connect the Jingzhu and Hurong expressways as part of the Bank's Third National
Highway (NH3) Project. The experience gained from the evaluation of the Junshan Bridge as a BOT
candidate is being applied in Hubei Province to an 85-km section of expressway northwest from Wuhan,
which as a BOT project or public/private partnership, will be part of a future 650-km expressway system
in the central region of the province. The Bank and Hubei Province have agreed to try to mobilize grant
funding for a network-level analysis of the system in order to develop an adequate base of capital cost,
revenue, and traffic data to discuss the new project with the private sector. Hubei is also considering the
possibility of using an outside contractor/investor to provide operations and maintenance services for a
large part of the expressway system.
4.4 China is continuing to emphasize the importance of securing long-term debt capital at relatively low
interest rates as a key factor in making highway facilities affordable to a large segment of the population.
The World Bank, OECF, and the Asian Development Bank are making important contributions in this
area, and through continued work on a legal and regulatory framework for BOT investment, China hopes
to secure the confidence and support of commercial lenders for long-term private borrowings in the
highway sector. The country has already experienced some success in this regard through financial
closure of BOT pilot projects in the power and water sectors.
4.5 Although China is making progress with the availability of medium-term debt in its domestic capital
markets, foreign commercial banks and the capital markets appear quite reluctant at this stage to support
new highway projects in China without access to sovereign guarantees. The solutions are in part
institutional and policy, or framework, oriented.
4.6 The Bank is working with central and provincial governments to begin the organization of new toll
road authorities at the provincial level with the power to raise and spend toll revenues, and to presumably
leverage debt financing for construction and operation and maintenance (O&M) of their emerging
expressway and other high-grade highway systems. Bank-financed expressway commercialization and
corporatization studies are now underway in Hunan and Hubei provinces under NH2 and NH3,
respectively. A new technical assistance initiative intended to develop a model highway shareholding
company and provincial toll road authority has been agreed to recently with the Ministry of Finance and
Fujian Province.
4.7 In the absence of a BOT policy decree to resolve uncertainties and concerns in the relationship
between the central agencies and the provinces, international commercial banks and bond investors are
reluctant to accept informal arrangements for setting future tariffs and making available hard currency to
meet debt service payments and to repatriate profits to foreign developers.
4.8 China has proposed that the requirements for accessing long-term debt financing in the international
markets be considered under a new technical assistance initiative with the Bank Group (IFC/FIAS/PPI-
PSD) to revise and improve the existing BOT policy decree which has been pending before State Council
for more than two years. This review would also include an assessment of recent pilot BOT projects in
the power and water sectors, which unlike toll roads, have established markets and creditworthy
offtakers. It may be the case in China that the financial returns needed for highway investors relative to
the risks involved are different than the water and power sectors. Until these investors are satisfied with



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 73                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
the security and long-term financial viability of their venture, a policy decree will do little to alter the
fundamental economics in most toll road projects. Certainly, however, the results of this new TA can
give China new concepts and ideas for a policy, legal, and regulatory framework for private infrastructure
projects and standard documentation for concessions in the highway, power, and water sectors.
5. International Comparison
5.1 A preliminary task team estimate of total private investment in toll roads globally during the period
1991-1998 would be in the range of US$20-25 billion for projects which have been completed. Private
investment here is defined as including equity capital and non-government guaranteed commercial debt.
A large part of this private sector capital contribution has in fact occurred in China where more than 70
brownfield concession transactions in the highway sector have been completed until end 1998 mobilizing
in the order of US$4 billion. In addition, a dozen highway asset securitization (asset-backed financing)
transactions have raised additional US$2 billion lifting the total private funding of toll highways in China
during most of the 1990s to about US$6 billion.
5.2 On a country-by-country basis, to the extent that reliable information is available, private investments
in toll roads appear as follows: (i) United States US$0.65 billion; (ii) United Kingdom US$0.9 billion;
(iii) China US$6.4 billion; (iv) Hungary US$0.55 billion; (v) Malaysia US$3.5 billion; (vi) Mexico
US$5.0 billion; (vii) Argentina US$2.0 billion; (viii) Brazil US$1.0 billion; (ix) Chile US$0.33 billion;
(x) Colombia US$0.4 billion; (xi) Indonesia US$0.5 billion; (xii) Thailand US$0.4 billion; and (xiii)
Philippines US$0.7 billion. The total of these 13 countries comes to US$22.33 billion which would
amount to about US$2.8 billion per annum for the period 1991-1998.
5.3 It is to be noted that Spain, Italy and France are not included in this preliminary analysis although
these three countries operate the largest toll road systems in Europe. However, much of their systems
was completed in the 1970s and 80s and those toll road projects that are underway now seem to be quite
limited and mostly in the development stage. Furthermore, it would appear that there was extensive
government involvement, and continues to be, in motorway development occurring and planned in these
three countries.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 74                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
ANNEX 7: BANK INVOLVEMENT AND ACHIEVEMENTS IN
CHINA'S HIGHWAY SECTOR
Four 'h National Highway Project
1. Introduction
1.1 China has opened some 7,500 km of the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) to traffic and has
established a road network of 1.26 million km. The objective is to complete the NTHS, some 35,000 km
of high-grade highways by 2015, and construct 130,000 km of provincial and rural roads by year 2000.
The completed road network infrastructure is already contributing to the government's policy of
integrating the national economy, removing inter-provincial trade barriers, and providing an all-weather
access road system to low-income rural areas. One of the key objectives of the NTHS is to advance
economic development in China's inland provinces, which have historically carried much of the
country's poverty burden. A high-grade highway network is essential to the achievement of these goals,
and it is in this area where the World Bank is making a significant contribution.
1.2 Despite this progress, China's highway sector faces important issues relating to construction quality,
resource mobilization, maintenance, institutional management and financing, rural roads, and road safety.
As China is making substantial progress, the central and provincial agencies are doing more to address
issues in a systematic manner and with a higher sense of urgency and commitment. Sustained
development of the NTHS is regarded as a critical means of dealing with remaining poverty in the
country. The construction of the system provides an immediate economic stimulus and a permanent
framework for long-term economic growth. Sectoral issues are being addressed with the Bank through
policy dialogue, lending programs, and technical assistance, and in the context of a long-term strategic
framework by focusing on key elements of policy and institutional reforms.
2. China's Evolving Highway Program
2.1 The government in 1998 raised its highway spending to US$26 billion, double the amount of the
previous year. China's investment mix for the highway sector is broad-based: about 55% of this
allocation was earmarked for the NTHS construction, 30% for the provincial road system, and the
remaining 15% for rural road improvement. Public financing remains predominant, with external
financing amounting to less than 10% of total. China is committed to maintain highway spending at the
1998 level in the foreseeable future, for which the availability of capital has become a serious, continuing
challenge and will likely remain a formidable constraint to development.
2.2 The highway sector remains an important component of the Bank's country assistance strategy,
among other things, to promote economic growth and alleviate poverty, close infrastructure bottlenecks,
reduce regional disparities, and improve rural road systems for the poor. To this end, the Bank is
promoting a new partnership between the central government and provinces to find better approaches to
financing and managing the highway system. The Bank is also working with these groups to begin
organization of new toll road authorities with financial responsibilities. In addition, the Bank is presently
supporting studies related to commercialization and corporatization of expressways, and advising MOF
on administrative issues related to a fuel tax.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 75                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
3. Scope of Bank Participation
3.1 World Bank lending for highways in China in 1998 reached US$0.68 billion (or about 2.5% of the
country's US$26 billion program). In real terms and share of total spending, the Bank's contribution is
down slightly from 1997, when China invested US$13 billion in highways of which US$0.7 billion was
in World Bank loans (or about 5%). Annual multi- and bilateral lending to the sector in recent years is
about US$1.2-$1.5 billion, with about 45% from the World Bank, 30% from ADB, and the remaining
25% from OECF.
3.2 Since 1983, the Bank has implemented a total of 21 highway projects with seven projects closed,
focusing primarily on the NTHS. Four new highway projects are under active preparation while five
more highway projects have been proposed for future Bank loan financing. Bank projects have
incorporated institution building features and support both economic growth and poverty reduction
objectives.
3.3 By 1998, total lending to China's highway sector exceeded US$4 billion. OED ratings indicate that
the seven completed projects had satisfactory outcomes and are likely to sustain their benefits but had
only modest institutional development impacts. Recent supervision ratings and the Quality Assurance
Group's "projects at risk" report on ongoing projects indicate that all have satisfactory implementation
progress and are likely to achieve their development objectives. The economic rates of return (ERR) for
China highway projects range from 16%-39% at completion.
3.4 The Bank's highway lending achievements in China can be summarized as follows:
(i) Expansion of road capacity to support development of coastal and inland provinces and trade and
regional economic integration by adding 2,800 km of expressways;
(ii) Upgrading and improvement of some 13,000 km of secondary and rural roads to support the rural
development and poverty alleviation objectives;
(iii) Institutional capacity building in provinces to sustain road planning and management, construction
quality control, road financing, road maintenance, environmental and resettlement requirements, traffic
safety, and to develop market-based pricing for highway services such as the establishment of road tariffs
(tolls);
(iv) Support to the road securitization initiatives by permitting the use of partially Bank-funded highway
and bridge assets for securitization in the Hong Kong and Shenzhen equity markets by provincial
expressway development companies in Guangdong, Sichuan, and Zhejiang. Similar transactions are
under consideration in the Beijing-Tianjin corridor and in Guangdong and Fujian, and possibly for other
provinces in the near future.
4. Primary Sectoral Issues and Reforms
4.1 The Bank's long-term involvement in China's highway sector has succeeded in addressing a wide
spectrum of sector issues. The OED report (1999) recommends continued Bank participation in the
sector with emphasis towards broader policy and institutional reforms. Key sector issues and reforms
which the Bank intends to pursue in the future are as follows:
(i) Building Sector Institutions: Though in two decades China has taken a major leap from a primitive
road system to the fast expanding NTHS, the sustainability of the highway sector greatly depends on the



Project Appraisal Document                Page 76                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
strength of its provincial and local highway institutions to address the growing challenges of road traffic
safety, construction quality standards and control, road asset preservation, network expansion, market
responsive facility provision, and resource mobilization. China is now placing greater importance on the
coordination of agencies in the area of traffic safety improvements. For instance, with some 85 fatalities
and 175 injuries per 10,000 vehicles (1997 data), China's roads are among the most unsafe in the world.
Any effective solution to the safety issue will require a stronger relationship between the provincial
communications departments (PCDs) and the traffic police which is part of the Internal Security Ministry.
To support such reforms, sector institutions will require new skills and a better understanding of new
practices.
(ii) Improving Construction Quality: Highway construction quality is one of the most serious concerns of
the sector. Incidences of bridge and road failings or premature wear and tear of highway pavements
occur quite frequently. The problem has both technical and administrative roots. Contractors, mostly
domestic, are not always well managed, frequently face irregular payments, and often come under
pressure to shorten the construction period. In some cases, quality control suffers due to the lack of
authority assigned to the construction supervision agency by the owner vis-a-vis contractors. While the
central government appreciates Bank involvement in the sector due to better design reviews, supervision
and resulting construction quality of the Bank projects as compared to locally financed projects, there is a
definite need to reinforce rigid construction quality standards, control and enforcement in future Bank
highway loans.
(iii) Enhancing Accessibility to Remote and Low Income Areas: The geography of China poses
enornous demands and difficulties for the provision of basic road access in various parts of the country,
particularly in the inner and low-income provinces. Although the role of transport access to integrate the
national economy, to stimulate growth in remote areas, and to insure basic mobility needs of the poor has
been emphasized, the task is enormous and requires significant public resources. The Bank's provincial
highway program in China aims to favorably impact poverty levels, through targeted interventions in low
income areas. Provincial and central government agencies often refrain from borrowing for this purpose
since no dedicated revenue source for loan repayment is easily identified (unlike for toll roads). While a
renewed effort is needed to support road development in low income areas, China's central and
provincial highway agencies are generally self-sufficient in this regard. The Bank's future lending and
non-lending services for this sector should be focused on the development and long-term maintenance of
major infrastructure projects such as expressways .
(iv) Sustaining Road Maintenance: China's highway network is fast expanding in all road categories,
with emphasis on high-grade highways. Over time, the demand for routine and periodic maintenance and
related resources will substantially increase. Due to the rapid pace of road expansion in many provinces,
maintenance funds are diverted to construction of new roads. The current trend and practice will soon
become unsustainable unless a new framework is developed to address future maintenance needs.  The
Bank and China's highway agencies need to look for methods of funding ongoing road maintenance
requirements while also supporting the construction of new revenue generating high-grade highways. A
stronger effort on behalf of the Bank and the relevant Chinese sector institutions is recommended to make
road maintenance a more integral and prominent part of future Bank highway projects. PCDs need to be
encouraged to develop a sustainable road maintenance policy, refine their road information systems for
direct use in maintenance planning and operations, develop sustainable funding mechanisms, and adjust
their organizational structures and training programs to devote more resources to maintenance.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 77                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
5. Priorities in the Future Highway Program
5.1 The construction emphasis of the Bank's highway program over the last 15 years needs to be
expanded to focus more intensively on policy and institutional reforms, where more should be expected.
Bank interventions have not always been that successful in the past in dealing with important policy and
institutional matters. As time goes on, China and the Bank are developing an understanding which will
support a substantive, ongoing effort to address and resolve these issues. For example, traffic safety, road
maintenance, and toll road operation and management must be major concerns, and the Bank needs to
find new ways of engaging Chinese counterparts more proactively in addressing these issues and taking
ownership of reforms and the potential results they can produce.
5.2 Achievement of policy and institutional reforms on a project-by-project basis can only be modest at
best. Significant progress and lasting reforms will most likely take place over time with several
operations supporting the same initiatives. Performance standards and methods for measuring progress
toward implementation and tangible outputs need to be agreed and put in place with the central agencies
and provinces.
5.3 The Bank should help China in its transition by shifting its lending orientation to areas where the
institution has a comparative advantage in China's highway sector: highway management, financing,
integrated planning, and the organization of highway administration. Other key reform areas that have
not received sufficient Bank attention include institutional change to retain and increase the benefits of
decentralization, the question of restructuring the PCDs to enable them to address the complex future
issues they will face, resource allocation between functional road classes, and between new construction
and maintenance, as well as lessons learned from the West regarding the need for spatial planning
concepts in highway development.
5.4 The Bank is already advocating a new partnership between the central government and provinces in
identifying better ways of financing and managing the growth of the highway network, specifically as
regards the operation and management of toll roads. The Bank is working with central and provincial
governments to begin the organization of new toll road authorities at the provincial level with the power
to raise and spend toll revenues for construction and operation and maintenance (O&M) of their emerging
expressway and other high-grade highway systems. Bank-financed expressway commercialization and
corporatization studies are now underway in Hunan and Hubei. A new technical assistance initiative
intended to develop a model highway shareholding company, and provincial toll road authority has been
agreed recently with the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and Fujian Province.
5.5 The Bank needs to continue its search for new ways of sustaining and reinforcing the sector dialogue
with relevant Chinese authorities. The Bank, jointly with the Ministry of Communications (MOC)
conducted a construction quality workshop and a high-level highway policy seminar in Beijing in May
1997. These were followed up with a policy workshop in May 1998. In addition, the Bank, in close
cooperation with MOC and MOF, is presently undertaking a self-assessment of the impact of its highway
TA. This work is considered as a good vehicle to draw renewed attention to key sector issues and to
agree with relevant Chinese authorities on a new strategy for future highway lending and non-lending
services. To that effect a new workshop will be held with MOC, MOF, SDPC and selected provinces on
May 8-9, 1999 in Beijing. This workshop will also initiate work on a new China Strategic Highway
Framework paper which the Bank and China will prepare as part of FY2000 ESW. Several more
workshops will be held during FY2000 and FY200 1.



Project Appraisal Document                            Page 78                            Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
ANNEX 8: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Fourth National Highway Project
Table 1-Consolidated Project Costs
April 1999 Prices ($1.00=Y8.3)
Project Component              Hubei Section          Hunan Section           C Consolidated Project
Local  Foreign   Total  Local Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign   Total
component 1. Construction oI
expressway and interconnecting
roads
Expressway
Civil Works                       150.8   104.3   255.1  187.0  133.8   320.9   337.9   238.1   576.0
AnnexAreas&Admin.Bldgs.             8.7     3.7     12.4   5.9    5.4    11.3    14.6    9.1        23.7
E&MWorks                            1.7    6.9      8.6    0.9   10.3    11.2    2.6    17.1    19.8
Interconnecting Roads               8.7     2.2     10.9   8.0    7.4    15.3    16.7    9.5        26.2
Other Roads                        18.8    4.7    23.5    0.0    0.0       0.0      18.8    4.7     23.5
Total Works                        188.7   121.7   310.5  201.8  156.9   358.7   390.5   278.6   669.1
Supervision                         5.3     2.3     7.6    7.7    2.7    10.4    13.0    5.0        18.0
Equipment                           0.8     3.3     4.1    0.8    3.0      3.8      1.6     6.3      7.9
Component 2. Institutional
Strengthening/Capacity Building
Training                            0.3     0.3     0.7    0.3    1.0       1.3     0.7     1.3      2.0
Studies                             1.0    0.0      1.0    0.6    0.3      0.9      1.6     0.3      1.9
Training and Studies                1.3     0.3     1.7    0.9    1.3      2.2      2.2     1.6      3.8
Total Base Cost                    196.2   127.7   323.9  211.1  163.9   375.0   407.3   291.6   698.9
Physical Contingencies             19.4    13.6    33.1   20.9   17.6    38.5    40.4    31.2    71.5
Price Contingencies                45.1    7.2    52.3   48.6   16.5    65.1    93.7    23.7    117.4
Total Contingencies                64.5    20.8    85.4   69.5   34.1   103.6   134.0   54.9   189.0
Component3. Front-end fee           0.0     1.5     1.5    0.0    2.0      2.0      0.0     3.5      3.5
Component 4. Land Acquisition and
Resettlement                       22.2    0.0    22.2   38.4   0.0    38.4    60.6    0.0          60.6
Total Project Cost    283.0   150.0   433.0  319.0  200.0   519.0   602.0   350.0   952.0



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 79                      Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Table la-Project Costs Hunan Section
April 1999 Prices ($1.00=Y8.3)
Project Component                Y mill.                    US$ mill.
Local    Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign Total
Works
Civil Works Expressway           1,552.31  1,110.91  2,663.22  187.03 133.85   320.87
Annex Areas & Admin. Bldgs.         48.80    44.99     93.79    5.88    5.42    11.30
E&M Works Expressway                 7.39    85.16     92.55    0.89   10.26    11.15
Interconnecting Roads               66.15    61.09    127.24    7.97   7.36     15.33
Construction Supervision            63.66    22.41     86.07    7.67   2.70     10.37
Equipment                            6.31    25.23     31.54    0.76    3.04     3.80
Training                             2.74     7.97     10.71    0.33    0.96     1.29
Studies/TA                           4.57     2.74      7.30    0.55    0.33     0.88
Training and Studies                 7.30    10.71     18.01    0.88    1.29     2.17
Base Cost                        1,751.92  1,360.49  3,112.42 211.08 163.92    374.99
Physical Contingencies             173.83    145.70   319.53   20.94   17.55    38.50
Price Contingencies                403.06    137.19    540.25   48.56   16.53   65.09
Total Contingencies               576.89   282.89    859.78   69.50  34.08    103.59
Front-end Fee                        0.00    16.60     16.60    0.00   2.00      2.00
Land Acquisition
and Resettlement                   318.72     0.00    318.72   38.40   0.00     38.40
Total Project Cost               2,647.53  1,659.98  4,307.52 318.98 200.00    518.98



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 80                      Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Table lb-Project Costs Hubei Section
April 1999 Prices ($1.00=Y8.3)
Project Component         Local    Foreign  ltotal    Local  Foreign Total
Y mill.                    US$ Mill.
Works
Civil Works Expressway               1,251.89    865.44  2,117.33  150.83  104.27  255.10
Annex Areas & Admin. Bldgs.            72.22     30.95    103.17    8.70    3.73   12.43
E&M Works Expressway                   14.32     57.06     71.38    1.73    6.88    8.60
Interconnecting Roads                  72.44     18.11     90.55    8.73    2.18   10.91
Other Roads                            155.71    38.93    194.64   18.76    4.69   23.45
Construction Supervision               44.27     18.97     63.25    5.33    2.29    7.62
Equipment                               6.84     27.36     34.20    0.82    3.30    4.12
Training                                2.68      2.79      5.48    0.32    0.34    0.66
Studies/TA                              8.30      0.00      8.30    1.00    0.00    1.00
Total Training and Studies              10.98     2.79     13.78    1.32    0.34    1.66
Base Cost                           1,628.67  1,059.62  2,688.29  196.23  127.66  323.89
Physical Contingencies                 161.08    113.24    274.33   19.41   13.64   33.05
Price Contingencies                   374.60     59.68    434.28   45.13    7.19   52.32
Total Contingencies                   535.68    172.92    708.60   64.54   20.83   85.37
Fee (Front-end)                         0.00     12.45     12.45    0.00    1.50    1.50
Land Acquisition
and Resettlement                       184.59     0.00    184.59   22.24    0.00   22.24
Total Project Cost         2,348.94  1,244.99  3,593.93  283.01  150.00  433.00



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 81                       Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
ANNEX 9: FINANCING PLANS
Fourth National Highway Project
Table 1-Consolidated Financing Plan
April 1999 Prices ($1.00=Y8.3)
($ million)
Government         Bank  Total  Foreign Costs
Provincial     Central                  % of Total
component l. construction ot
expressway and interconnecting
roads
Expressway Civil Works                 109.7         228.1  238.1  576.0       41
Annex areas & Admin. Bldgs.             14.6                  9.1   23.7       39
Expressway E & M Works                   2.6                 17.1   19.8       87
Interconnecting Roads                   16.7                  9.5   26.2       36
Other Roads                             18.8                  4.7   23.5       20
Subtotal Works                         162.4         228.1  278.6  669.1       42
Construction Supervision                13.0                  5.0   18.0       28
Equipment                                1.6                  6.3    7.9       80
Component 2. Institutional
Strengthening/Capacity Building
Training                                 0.7                  1.3    2.0       66
Studies                                  1.6                  0.3    1.9       18
Total Training and Studies               2.2                  1.6    3.8       42
Component 3. Front-end Fee               0.0                  3.5    3.5       100
Component 4. Land Acquisition
and Resettlement                        60.6                  0.0   60.6        0
Contingencies                          134.0                 54.9  189.0       29
Total Project Cost                     375.2         228.1  350.0  952.0       37
Percent of Total                         39            24     37    100



Project Appraisal Document                         Page 82                          Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Table la- Financing Plan Hunan Section
April 1999 Prices ($1.00=Y8.3)
Government            Bank  lotal      Foreign Costs
Provincial           (entral                      % of Total
Component 1. Construction of
Expressway and Interconnecting Roads
Works
Expressway Civil Works                      67.3                119.7  133.8    320.9       42
Annex Areas & Admin. Bldgs.                  5.9                         5.4      11.3      48
Expressway E & M Works                       0.9                        10.3      11.2      92
Interconnecting Roads                        8.0                         7.4      15.3      48
Other Roads                                  0.0                         0.0       0.0       0
Subtotal Works                             82.1                119.7  156.9    358.7        44
Construction Supervision                     7.7                         2.7      10.4      26
Equipment                                    0.8                         3.0       3.8      80
Component 2. Institutional
Strengthening/Capacity Building
Training                                     0.3                         1.0       1.3      74
Studies                                      0.6                         0.3       0.9      38
Total Training and Studies                   0.9                         1.3       2.2      59
Component 3. Front-end Fee                                               2.0       2.0      100
Component 4. Land Acquisition
and Resettlement                            38.4                         0.0      38.4       0
Contingencies                               69.5                        34.1     103.6      33
Hunan Project Cost                        199.3                119.7  200.0    519.0        39
Percent of Total                             40                   20      40       100



Project Appraisal Document                         Page 83                         Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Table lb- Financing Plan Hubei Section
April 1999 Prices ($1.00=Y8.3)
(Government           Bank  lotal      Foreign  Mosts
Provincial           Central                     % of Total
Component 1. tonstruction of
Expressway and Interconnecting Roads
Works
Expressway Civil Works                     42.4                108.4  104.3    255.1       41
Annex Areas & Admin. Bldgs.                 8.7                         3.7      12.4      30
Expressway E & M Works                      1.7                         6.9       8.6      80
Interconnecting Roads                       8.7                         2.2    10.91       20
Other Roads                                18.8                         4.7    23.45       20
Subtotal Works                             80.3               108.4  121.7    310.5        39
Construction Supervision                    5.3                         2.3       7.6      30
Equipment                                   0.8                         3.3       4.1      80
Component 2. Institutional
Strengthening/Capacity Building
Training                                    0.3                         0.3       0.7      51
Studies                                     1.0                         0.0       1.0       0
Total Training and Studies                  1.3                         0.3       1.7      20
Component 3. Front-end Fee                                              1.5       1.5      100
Component 4. Land Acquisition
and Resettlement                           22.2                         0.0      22.2       0
Contingencies                              64.5                        20.8      85.4      24
Hunan Project Cost                        174.6               108.4  150.0    433.0        35
Percent of Total                             40                  25      35       100



Project Appraisal Document               Page 84                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
ANNEX 10: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Fourth National Highway Project
A. Project Implementation Plans
This annex presents the implementation programs for both provinces for the various components of
the project. Tables 1 and 2 summarize the overall implementation schedule for the project as a whole.
These schedules show the estimated time requirements for construction activities as well as for pre-
construction activities such as preparation of designs and bid documents, pre-qualification process,
bidding process, evaluation of bids, negotiations and signing of contracts.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 85                                                               Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
HUNAN PROVINCE                                                                                   Page1 of 6
Table 1. Implementation Program
1998       1999       2000        2001        2002       2003
ID   Task Name                                                              Duration        Start           Finish      Hi I H2   Hi   H2   HI | H2 IHi   H2   H     H2   Hi   H2
1    1. Civil Works                                                         1038 days     Mon 8/10/98       Thu 8/1/02            .   i m)
2        Expressway Section (ICB)                                           1038 days     Mon 8/10/98       Thu 8/1/02
3             Submitting GNP                                                   0 days     Mon 8/10/98     Mon 8/10/98           ati 0
4             Publishing GNP in UN Development Business                       21 days      Tue 8/1 1/98     Tue 9/8/98
5             The Bank's "no objection" to prequalification documents         30 days      Wed 9/9/98     Tue 10/20/98
6             Prequalification docs (PQ) available for sale                   60 days    Wed 10/21/98      Tue 1/12/99
7             Last date to submit PQ documents                                 0 days      Tue 1/12199     Tue 1/12/99                 2
8             PQ documents evaluation report & MOC review                     30 days     Wed 1/13/99      Tue 2/23/99
9             Bank review & no obj. to PQ does evaluation rep                 25 days     Wed 2/24/99      Tue 3/30/99
10            Review bidding documents by MOC                                  30 days      Wed 1/6/99      Tue 2V16/99
11            Review bidding documents by the Bank                             30 days     Wed 2V17/99      Tue 3/30/99           ll
12            Sell bidding does to prequalified contractors                    91 days     Wed 3/31/99      Wed 814/99
13            Last date to receive bid documents                                0 days      Wed 8/4/99      Wed 8/4/99
14            Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                          30 days      Thu 8/5/99     Wed 9/15/99
15            Bank review evaluation report and no objection                   30 days     Thu 9/16/99    Wed 10/27/99
16            Notify successful bidder                                          0 days    Wed 10/27/99    Wed 10/27/99                    0127
17            Negotiate and sign contracts                                     20 days    Thu 10/28/99    Wed 11/24/99
18            Construction period                                             701 days    Thu 11/25/99       Thu 8/1/02
19
20
Task                                       Summary                                    Rolled Up Progress
Project: Implementafion Program          Split                                      Rolled Up Task                             Extemal Tasks
Date: Tue 5/18/99                        Progress                                   Rolled Up Split     ,,,,,,                 Project Summary _
Milestone                                  Rolled Up Milestone s



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 86                                                             Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
HUNAN PROVINCE                                                                                 Page 2of 6
Table 1. Implementation Program
_  1998   1999        2000       2001        2002       2003
ID   Task Name                                                            Duration        Start           Finish      HI  H2   HI    2 H     HI I H2   HI   H2   Hi   H2   HI1 H2
21       Interconnecting Roads (NCB)                                        709 days   Mon 11/15/99       Thu 8/1/02
22            Completing prequalification documents                           0 days   Mon 11/15/99    Mon 11/15/99                 '      1t15
23            The Bank's "no objection" to prequalification documents        30 days   Mon 11/15/99      Fri 12/24/99
24            Prequalification docs (PQ) available for sale                  45 days   Mon 12/27/99        Fri 2/25/00
25            Last date to submit PQ documents                                0 days      Fri 2/25/00      Fri 2/25/00          ,
26            PQ documents evaluation report & MOC review                    30 days     Wed 3/15/00      Tue 4/25/00
27            Bank review & no obj. to PQ docs evaluation rep                30 days     Wed 4/26/00       Tue 6/6/00
28            Review bidding documents by MOC                                30 days     Mon 2/28/00        Fri 4/7/00
29            Review bidding documents by the Bank                           30 days     Mon 4/10/00      Fri 5/19/00
30            Sell bidding docs to prequalified contractors                  91 days      Wed 6/7/00    Wed 10/1 1/00
31            Last date to receive bid documents                              0 days   Wed 10/11/00    Wed 10/11/00
32            Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                        30 days    Thu 10/12/00    Wed 11/22/00
33            Bank review evaluation report and no objection                 30 days    Thu 11/23/00      Wed 1/3/01
34            Notify successful bidder                                        0 days      Wed 1/3/01      Wed 1/3/01            ' '1/3
35            Negotiate and sign contracts                                   17 days      Thu 1/4/01      Fri 1/26/01                                  h
36            Construction period                                           371 days      Thu 3/1/01      Thu 8/1/02
37
38        Annex Areas (NCB)                                                 669 days   Wed 11/10/99       Mon 6/3/02
39            Complete bidding documents                                      0 days   Wed 11/10/99    Wed 11/10/99                 '        11/10
40            Bank review and no objection of BD                             22 days      Mon 1/3/00       Tue 2/1/00
Task                                      Summary                                   Rolled Up Progress
Project: Implementation Program         Split                                     Rolled UpTask                              External Tasks      g                j
Date: Tue 5/18/99                       Progress                                  Rolled Up Split                            Project Summary                O
Milestone           *                     Rolled Up Milestone



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 87                                                            Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
HUNAN PROVINCE                                                                                Page3of 6
Table 1. Implementation Program
1998      11999      1 2000     12001      12002       20
ID   Task Name                                                           Duration        Start          Finish      HI I|_I H l _2_IHII_              HI| H2   H| H2   Hl  H2
41            Sell bidding documents                                        45 days     Tue 2/15/00    Mon 4/17/00
42            Last date to receive bid documents                             0 days      Sat 4/15/00     Sat 4/15/00                           4/15
43            Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                       21 days    Mon 4/17/00     Mon 5/15/00
44            Bank review and no objection                                  23 days     Tue 5/16/00     Thu 6/15/00
45            Negotiate and sign contracts                                  21 days      Fri 6/16/00     Fri 7/14/00
46            Construction period                                          492 days      Fri 7/14/00    Mon 6/3/02
47
48   2. E&M Works (ICB)                                                    807 days      Thu 7/1/99      Fri 8/2/02
49        Finalize bid documents & submit to Bank                            0 days      Thu 7/1/99      Thu 7/1/99
50        No objection to bid documents by Bank                             22 days    Mon 1/17/00      Tue 2/15/00
51        Specific procurement notice (UNDB)                                 0 days    Wed 2/16/00     Wed 2/16/00
52       Issue bid documents                                                45 days    Wed 3/15/00      Tue 5/16/00
53        Last date to receive bids (stage 1)                                Odays      Thu 6/15/00     Thu 6/15/00
54        Evaluate bid documents                                            30 days      Fri 6/16/00    Thu 7/27/00
55        Contractor prepare financial bids (stage 2)                       21 days      Fri 9/15/00    Fri 10/13/00
56        Last date to submit financial bids                                 0 days    Sun 10/15/00    Sun 10/15/00                                 016
57        Bid evaluation report & Govemment review                          23 days   Mon 10/16/00    Wed 11/15/00
58        Bank review & no objection to bid evaluation report               30 days    Thu 11/16/00    Wed 12/27/00
59        Negotiate and sign contract                                       31 days      Thu 2/1/01     Thu 3/15/01
60       Establish letter of credit                                         33 days      Fri 3/16/01     Tue 5/1/01
Task                                     Summary                                   Rolled Up Progress
Split                         ~~~~~~~~Rolled Up TaskExeaTsk
Project: Implementation Program        Split                                                                               Exteral Tasks         ,       }
Date: Tue 5/18/99                      Progress                                  Rolled Up Split                           Project Summary _
Milestone                                Rolled Up Milestone  Q



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 88                                                            Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
HUNAN PROVINCE                                                                                Page40f 6
Table 1. Implementation Program
_                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1998  | 1999  12000  |2001  | 2002  12003 
ID   Task Name                                                           Duration        Start          Finish      HI  H2 | H    H2   H    H2   Hi   H2    H   H2 | H1 I H2
61       Manufacture & delivery of equipment                               I10 days     Wed 51O01       Tue 10/2101
62       Transport of equipment to site                                     76 days    Wed 10/3/01     Wed 1/16/02
63       Installation and commissioning and trial-run of systems            60 days     Thu 1/17/02    Wed 4/10/02
64       Completion                                                         82 days     Thu 4/11/02       Fri 8/2/02
65
66   3. Construction supervision                                          1164 days    Mon 2/16/98      Thu 8/1/02
67       Specific procurement notice (UNDB)                                  0 days    Mon 2V16/98     Mon 2V16/98    2116
68       No objection of Bank to TOR, LOI & shortlist                       30 days     Tue 8/25/98    Mon 10/5/98
69        Issue invitations to consultants                                  45 days     Tue 10/6/98    Mon 1217/98
70       Last date to receive proposals                                      0 days    Mon 1217/98     Mon 127/98
71       Evaluation of the quality (technical proposals)                    30 days     Tue 128/98    Mon 1/18/99
72       Bank review evaluation rpt (tech) & no objection                   30 days     Tue 1/19/99     Mon 3/1/99
73       Notify consultants on the opening date of the financial proposals   0 days      Mon 3/1/99     Mon 3/1/99
74       Opening of financial proposals                                      0 days     Mon 3/1/99      Mon 3/1/99            i,1
75       Complete combined quality & cost evaluation                        25 days      Tue 3/2199     Mon 4/5/99
76       Bank review proposal evaluation rpt & no objection                 30 days      Tue 4/6/99    Mon 5/17/99
77       Negotiations with consultant & sign contract                       15 days     Tue 5/18/99     Mon 6/7/99
78       Prepare training material by consultant                            62 days      Tue 6/8/99     Wed 9/1/99
79       Train local staff                                                 120 days     Wed 9/1/99      Tue 21 5/00
80       Supervision of construction                                       761 days      Thu 9/2199      Thu 8/1/02
Task                                     Summary                                   Rolled Up Progress
Project: Implementation Program        Split                                     Rolled Up Task                            External Tasks
Date: Tue 5/18/99                      Progress                                  Rolled Up Split                           Project Summary _
Milestone                                Rolled Up Milestone



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 89                                                               Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
HUNAN PROVINCE                                                                                   Page 5ot 6
Table 1. Implementation Program
1998      [1999       12000      |2001       12002      12003
ID    Task Name                                                             Duration        Start           Finish      HI   H2   Hi   H2   Hi   H2   Hi   H2   H    H2   H i1 H2
81*                                                                                                                                           ',,,
82   4. Hunan Maintenance Management Study                                   686 days     Mon 5/17/99    Mon 12/31/01
83        TOR, short list and LOI approved by the Bank                          0 days    Mon 5/17/99      Mon 5/17/99                   5/17'
84        Letter issued to consultants                                          0 days     Tue 6/15/99      Tue 6/15/99
85        Consultants prepare and submit proposals                             45 days     Tue 6/15/99     Mon 8/16/99
86        HPCD evaluates Consultant's proposals                                22 days     Tue 8/17/99     Wed 9/15/99
87        Bank approves evaluation report                                      30 days     Thu 9/16/99    Wed 10/27/99 *
88        HPCD negotiates and awards contract                                  15 days    Thu 10/28/99    Wed 11/17/99
89        Consultants mobilize                                                 30 days    Thu 11/18/99    Wed 12/29/99
90   Execution of Study                                   523 days    Thu 12/30/99    Mon 12/31/01             .m
91_,                                                                                                                                          ,,                                            I
92   5. Road Safety Activities                                              1370 days      Tue 10/1/96    Mon 12/31/01 *            m:*
93        Establishing leading group                                            0 days     Tue 10/1/96      Tue 10/1/96
94        Mobilizing study team                                                60 days      Fn 3/14/97       Thu 6/5/97
95        The Bank approving working schedule                                    I day     Thu 4/15/99      Thu 4/15/99
96        Execution of Study                                                  707 days      Fri 4/16/99    Mon 12/31/01           .                                              .
97
98   6. Hubei-Hunan Transport and Trade Integration Study                    523 days      Fri 12/29/00    Tue 12/31/02
99        TOR, short list and LOI approved by the Bank                          0 days     Fri 12/29/00     Fri 12/29/00               *12/29
100       Lener issued to consultants                                           0 days     Wed 1/31/01     Wed 1/31/01
Task                                       Summary                                    Rolled Up Progress
S lit                                      Rolled Up Task            _         |      Extemal Tasks
Project Implementation Program            P                                         R       Ua
Date: Tue 5/18/99                        Progress                                   Rolled Up Split         ,,,,,,             Project Summary _
Milestone                                  Rolled Up Milestone   )



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 90                                                               Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
HUNAN PROVINCE                                                                                   Page6of 6
Table 1. Implementation Program
1998       1999       2000       12001       12002       2003
ID   Task Name                                                             Duration         Start           Finish      Hi   H2   Hi   H2   Hi   H2   Hi   H2   Hi   H2   Hi   H2
101       Consultants prepare and submit proposals                             45 days     Wed 1/31/01       Tue 4/3/01
102       HPCD evaluates Consultant's proposals                                22 days      Wed 4/4/01       Thu 5/3/01
103       Bank approves evaluation report                                      30 days        Fri 5/4/0l    Thu 6/14/01
104       HPCD negotiates and awards contract                                  15 days       Fri 6/15/01     Thu 7/5/01
105       Consultants mobilize                                                 30 days        Fri 7/6/01    Thu 8/16/01
106       Execution of Study                                                  359 days     Thu 8/16/01     Tue 12/31/02
Task                                       Summary                                    Rolled Up Progress
Project: Implementation Program          Split                                      Rolled Up Task                             Extemal Tasks
Date: Tue 5/18/99                        Progress                                   Rolled Up Split                            Project Summary _
Milestone                                  Rolled Up Milestone



Project Appraisal Doctiment                                                              Page 91                                                             Fourth National Hig;iway Project
County: China
HUBEI PROVINCE                                                                                  page 1 of 9
Table 2. Implementation Program
1998    11999    12000    1 2001    12002    12003
ID   Task Name                                                                    Duration        Start          Finish      Hi  H2  Hi  H2  Hi  H2  Hi  H2  Hi  H2  Hi  H2
1    1. Civil Works                                                               1348 days     Mon 5/4/98      Wed 7/2/03
2        Expressway Section (ICB)                                                 1053 days     Fri 12/1898    Toe 12/31/02
3             Submitting GNP                                                         0 days     Fri 12/18/98    Fri 12/18/98
4             Publishing GNP in UN Development Business                             21 days     Fri 12/18/98     Fri 1/15/99
5             The Bank's "no objection" to prequalirication documents               30 days     Mon I/la/99      Fn 2/26/99
6             Prequalification docs (PQ) available for sale                         60 days      Mon 3/1/99      Fri 5/21/99
7             Last date to submit PQ documents                                       0 days      Fri 5/21/99     Fri 5/21/99
8             PQ documents evaluation report & MOC review                           30 days     Mon 5/24/99        Fri 7/2/99
9             Bank review & no obj. to PQ docs evaluation rep                       25 days      Mon 7/5/99       Fri 8/6/99
10            Review bidding documents by MOC                                        30 days     Wed 1/6/99      Tue 2/16/99
11            Review bidding documents by the Bank                                   30 days    Wed 2/17/99      Tue 3/30/99
12            Sell bidding docs to prequalified contractors                          91 days     Mon 8/9/99    Mon 12/13/99
13            Last date to receive bid documents                                      O days    Mon 12/13/99    Mon 12/13/99                      2/13
14            Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                                30 days    Tue 12/14/99    Mon 1/24/00
15            Bank review evaluation report and no objection                         30 days     Tue 1/25/00     Mon 3/6/00
16            Notify successful bidder                                                0 days     Mon 3/6/00      Mon 3/6/00
17            Negotiate and sign contracts                                           20 days      Tue 3/7/00     Mon 4/3/00
18            Construction period                                               ,  716 days       Tue 4/4/00    Tue 12/31/02
19
20
Task                                      Summary                                    Rolled Up Progress
Project: Implementation Program         Split                                     Rolled Up Task                             External Tasks
Date: Tue 5/18/99                       Progress                                   Rolled Up Split                           Project Summary _
Milestone                                 Rolled Up Milestone



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 92                                                            Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
HUBEI PROVINCE                                                                                page 2 of 9
Table 2. Implementation Program
1998     1999      2000       2001     | 2002     2003
ID   Task Name                                                                  Duration        Start          Finish      Hi l H2  Hi   H2  HI  H2  Hl H2  Hl I H2  Hl H2
21       Interconnecting Roads (NCB)                                             1217 days     Mon 5/4/98    Tue 12/31/02
22            Completing prequalification documents                                 0 days      Mon 5/4/98     Mon 5/4/98
23            Thc Bank's "no objection" to prequalification documents              30 days      Fri 12/3/99    Thu 1/13/00
24            Prequalification does (PQ) available for sale                        45 days      Fri 1/14/00    Thu 3/16/00
25            Last date to submit PQ documents                                      0 days     Thu 3/16/00     Thu 3/16/00                           6
26            PQ documents evaluation report & MOC review                          30 days      Fri 3/17/00    Thu 4/27/00
27            Bank review & no obj. to PQ docs evaluation rep                      30 days      Fri 4/28/00     Thu 6/8/00
28            Review bidding documents by MOC                                      30 days       Fri 6/9/00    Thu 7/20/00
29            Review bidding documents by the Bank                                 30 days      Fn 7/21/00     Thu 8/31/00
30            Sell bidding docs to prequalified contractors                        91 days       Fri 9/1/00      Fri 1/5/01
31            Last date to recei ve bid documents                                   0 days       Fri 1/5/01      Fri 1/5/01                              /5
32            Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                              30 days      Mon 1/8/01      Fri 2/16/01
33            Bank review evaluation report and no objection                       30 days    Mon 2/19/01       Fri 3/30/01
34            Notify successful bidder                                              0 days      Fri 3/30/01     Fri 3/30/01                                    0
35            Negotiate and sign contracts                                         17 days      Mon 4/2/01     Tue 4/24/01
36            Construction period                                                 440 days    Wed 4/25/01     Tue 12/31/02
37...,                                                                                                                                 ,      ,,            
38        Other Roads (NCB)                                                       881 days    Mon 8/16/99    Mon 12/30/02
39            Completing prequalification documents                                 0 days    Mon 8/16/99     Mon 8/16/99
40            The Bank's "no objection" to prequalification documents              30 days     Mon 8/16/99      Fri 9/24/99
Task                                     Summary                                   Rolled Up Progress
Project: Implementation Program        Split                                     Rolled Up Task                           External Tasks
Date: Tue 5/18/99                      Progress                                  Roiled Up Split                          Project Summary 1
Milestone                                Rolled Up Milestone 



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 93                                                            Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
HUBEI PROVINCE                                                                                page 3 of 9
Table 2. Implementation Program
1998     1999      2000    12001    12002    12003
ID   Task Name                                                                  Duration        Start          Finish      Ht H2 I Hi I H2  HI  H2 |H    H2 jH   H2 |H    H2
41tPrequalification does (PQ) available for sale                                   45 days    Mon 9/27/99      Fri 1 1/26/99
42            Last date to submit PQ documents                                      0 days     Fri 11126/99    Fri 11/26/99             '     1  1/26
43            PQ documents evaluation report & MOC review                          30 days   Mon 11129/99        Fri I/70OO         .V
44            Bank review & no obj. to PQ docs evaluation rep                      30 days    Mon 1/10/00       Fri 2/18/00
45            Review bidding documents by MOC                                      30 days    Mon 2/21/00       Fri 3/31/00
46            Review bidding documents by the Bank                                 30 days      Mon 4/3/00      Fri 5/12/00
47            Sell bidding docs to prequalified contractors                        90 days    Mon 5/15/00       Fri 9/15/00
48            Last date to receive bid documents                                    0 days      Fri 9/15/00     Fri 9/15/00
49            Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                              30 days    Mon 9/18/00      Fri 10/27/00
50            Bank review evaluation report and no objection                       30 days   Mon 10/30/00       Fri 12/8/00
51            Notify successful bidder                                              0 days      Fri 12/8/00     Fri 12/8/00
52            Negotiate and sign contracts                                         15 days   Mon 12/11/00      Fri 12/29/00
53            Construction period                                                 521 days      Mon 1/1/01    Mon 12/30/02
54
55       Annex Areas (NCB)                                                        395 days    Thu 12/27/01     Wed 7/2/03               .                        _
56            Complete bidding documents                                            0 days    Thu 12/27/01    Thu 12/27/01                     t2/27
57            Bank review and no objection of BD                                   22 days    Thu 12/V27/01     Fri 1/25/02
58            Sell bidding documents                                               45 days    Mon 1/28/02       Fri 3/29/02
59            Last date to receive bid documents                                    0 days      Fri 3/29/02     Fri 3/29/02         ./29
60            Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                              21 days      Mon 4/1/02    Mon 4/29/02
Task                                     Summary                                   Rolled Up Progress
Project: Implementation Program        Split                                     Rolled Up Task                            Extemal Tasks
Date: Tue 5/18/99                      Progress                                  Rolled Up Split                           Project Summary
Milestone                                Rolled Up Milestone



Project Apprisal Document                                                            Page 94                                                           Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
HUBEI PROVINCE                                                                              page 4 Ot 9
Table 2. Implementation Program
1998    11999    12000    12001        2002    12003
ID   Task Name                                                                 Duratfon       Start          Finish      HI I H2 I Hi I H2 I HI] H21 HI I i 2   HI I H2 I Hi I H2
61           Bank review and no objection                                         23 days    Tue 4/30/02     Thu 5/30/02
62            Negotiate and sign contracts                                        21 days     Fri 5/31/02     Fri 6/28/02
63            Construction period                                                263 days     Mon 7/1/02     Wed 7/2/03
64
65   2. E&M Works (ICB)                                                         957 days      Mon 5/3/99    Tue 12/31/02
66       Fialize bid documents & submit to Bank                                    0 days     Mon 5/3/99     Mon 5/3/99
67       No objection to bid documents by Bank                                    30 days     Mon 5/3/99      Fri 6/11/99
68       Specific procurement notice (UNDB)                                        0 days     Fri 6o/ 1/99    Fri 6/11/99
69       Issue bid documents                                                      45 days    Mon 6/14/99      Fri 8/13/99
70       Last date to receive bids (stage I)                                       0 days     Fri 8/13/99     Fri 8/13/99
71       Evaluate bid documents                                                   30 days    Mon 8/16/99      Fri 9/24/99          .
72       Contractor prepare financial bids (stage 2)                              30 days    Mon 9/27/99      Fri 11/5/99
73       Last date to submit financial bids                                        0 days     Fri 11/5/99     Fri 11/5/99                    11/q
74       Bid evaluation report & Government review                                30 days    Mon 11/8/99     Fri 12/17/99
75       Bank review & no objection to bid evaluation report                      30 days   Mon 12/20/99      Fri 1/28/00
76       Negotiate and sign contract                                              IS days    Mon 1/31/00      Fri 2/18/00
77       Establish letter of credit                                               45 days    Mon 2/21/00      Fri 4/21/00
78       Manufacture and delivery of equipment                                   120 days    Mon 4/24/00      Fri 10/6/00
79       Transport of equipment to site                                           60 days    Mon 10/9/00     Fri 12/29/00
80       Installation and commissioning and trial-run of systems                 120 days     Mon 1/1/01      Fri 6U15/01
Task                                     Summary                                  Rolled Up Progress
Project: Implementaffon Program        Split                                    Rolled Up Task                          Extemal Tasks
Date: Tue 5/18/99                      Progress                                Rolled Up Split                          Project Summary _
Milestone                               Rolled Up Milestone   )



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 95                                                            Fourth NaUonal Highway Project
County: China
HUBEI PROVINCE                                                                                page 5 of 9
Table 2. Implementation Program
1:9:98    1999      2000    12001    12002    12003
ID   Task Name                                                                  Duration        Start          Finish      Hi  H2  H      H2          2  H1      2HI2    H0
81       Completion                                                               402 days    Mon 6/18/01     Tue 12/31/02
82
83   3. Construction supervision                                                 1075 days     Tue 8/25/98     Tue 10/8/02
84        Specific procurement notice (UNDB)                                        0 days     Tue 8/25/98     Tue 8/25/98       25
85        No objection of Bank to TOR, LOI & shortlist                             30 days    Wed 8/26/98      Tue 10/6/98       3   .
86       Issue invitations to consultants                                          45 days    Wed 10/7/98      Tue 12/8/98
87       Last date to receive proposals                                             0 days     Tue 128/98     Tue 12/8/98          e
88       Evaluation of the quality (technical proposals)                           30 days    Wed 12/9/98      Tue 1/19/99
89       Bank review evaluation rpt (tech) & no objection                          30 days    Wed 1/20/99       Tue 3/2199
90       Notify consultants on the opening date of the financial proposals          0 days      Tue 3/2/99      Tue 3/2/99                    .
91        Opening of financial proposals                                            0 days      Tue 3/2/99      Tue 3/2/99        [     /2
92       Complete combined quality & cost evaluation                               25 days      Wed 3/3/99      Tue 4/6/99
93       Bank review proposal evaluation rpt & no objection                        30 days      Wed 4/7/99     Tue 5/18/99
94       Negotiations with consultant & sign contract                              15 days    Wed 5/19/99       Tue 6/8/99
95       Prepare training material by consultant                                   62 days      Wed 6/9/99      Thu 9/2/99
96       Train local staff                                                        120 days       Fri 9/3/99    Thu 2/17/00
97        Supervision of construction                                             808 days       Fri 9/3/99    Tue 10/8/02
98
99   4. Hubei Maintenance Management Study                                        783 days    Thu 12/31/98    Mon 12/31/01
100       TOR, short list and LOI approved by the Bank                               0 days    Thu 12/31/98    Thu 12/31/98            11Ve31
Task                                      Summary                                  Rolled Up Progress
Project: Implementation Program        Split                                     Rolled Up Task                            External Tasks      Lji77-.:71
Date: Tue 5/18/99                      Progress                                  Rolled Up Split       ,,         ,        Project Summary _
Milestone                                Rolled Up Milestone



Projert Appraisal Document                                                             Page 96                                                            Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
HUBEI PROVINCE                                                                                page 6 of 9
Table 2. Implementation Program
1998    11999      2000      2001    |2002       2003
ID   Task Name                                                                  Durabon         Start          Finish      Hi  H2  HI  H2  HI  H2  HI  H2 I Hi I H2  Hi  H2
101       Letter issued to consultants                                              0 days      Mon 1/4/99      Mon 1/4/99
102       Consultants prepare and submit proposals                                 45 days      Tue 6/15/99    Mon 8/16/99
103       HPCD evaluates Consultant's proposals                                     22 days     Tue 8/17/99    Wed 9/15/99
104       Bank approves evaluation report                                          30 days     Thu 9/16/99    Wed 10/27/99
105       HPCD negotiates and awards contract                                       15 days    Thu 10/28/99    Wed 11/17/99             *
106       Consultants mobilize                                                      30 days    Thu 11/18/99    Wed 12/29/99
107       Execution of Study                                                      523 days    Thu 12/30/99    Mon 12/31/01
108
109  5. Hubei-Hunan Transport and Trade Integration Study                         523 days     Fri 12/29/00    Tue 12/31/02
110       TOR, short list and LOI approved by the Bank                               0 days    Fri 12/29/00    Fri 12/29/00
111       Letter issued to consultants                                               0 days    Wed 1/3 1/01    Wed 1/3 1/01
112       Consultants prepare and submit proposals                                  45 days    Wed 1/31/01       Tue 4/3/01         ,
113       HPCD evaluates Consultant's proposals                                     22 days     Wed 4/4/01      Thu 5/3/01
114       Bank approves evaluation report                                           30 days      Fri 5/4/01    Thu 6/14/01
115       HPCD negotiates and awards contract                                       15 days     Fni 6/15/01     Thu 7/5/01
116       Consultants mobilize                                                      30 days       Fri 7/6/01   Thu 8/16/01 
117       Execution of study                                                       359 days    Thu 8/16/01    Tue 12/31/02
118._.
119  6. Road Data Bank                                                           1040 days      Wed 1/6/99    Tue 12/31/02
120       List of Chinese experts available for Bank review                          0 days     Wed 1/6/99      Wed 1/6/99            1i6
Task                                     Summary                                   Rolled Up Progress    _       I
Project: Implementation Program        Split                                     Rolled Up Task                            Extemal Tasks            [         E
Date: Tue 5118/99                      Progress                                  Rolled Up Split                           Project Summary _
Milestone                                Rolled Up Milestone K



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 97                                                            Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
HUBEI PROVINCE                                                                                page 7 of 9
Table 2. Implementation Program
1998      1999      200      120       12002    12003
ID   Task Name                                                                  Duration        Start          Finish      Hi  H2 |H    H2  Hi  H2H             2  H    H2H
121       Mobilize consultant/study group                                          192 days      Thu 1/7/99     Fri 10/1/99
122       Final proposal and work program review by Bank and no-objection          195 days    Mon 10/4/99      Fri 6/30/00
123       Execute study                                                            652 days     Mon 7/3/00    Tue 12/31/02          ,
124
125 17. Competition in Highway Sector                                            1022 days      Mon 82V99       Tue 7/1/03          ,
126       List of Chinese experts available for Bank review                          0 days     Mon 8/2/99      Mon 8/2/99
127       Mobilize consultant/study group                                          501 days     Mon 8/2/99      Mon 7/2/01
128       Final proposal and work program review by Bank and no-objection          131 days      Tue 7/3/01      Tue 1/ I/02
129       Execute study                                                            390 days     Wed 1/2/02       Tue 7/1/03
130
131   8. Road Safety Activities                                                   936 days      Mon 8/2/99      Mon Y3/03
132       A. Study on Maintenance Safety                                          285 days      Mon 8/299        Fri 9/1/00
133           List of Chinese experts available for Bank review                      0 days     Mon 8/2/99      Mon 8/2/99
134           Mobilize consultant/study group                                        7 days     Mon 8/2/99      Tue 8/10/99                 +
135           Final proposal and work program review by Bank and no-objection       16 days    Wed 8/11/99      Wed 9/1/99
136           Execute study                                                        262 days      Thu 9/2/99       Fri 9/1/00
137       B. Road Safety Seminars                                                 936 days      Mon 82/99       Mon 3/3/03
138           Program of seminars reviewed by the Bank                               0 days     Mon 8/2/99      Mon 8/2/99
139           Execute program                                                      523 days      Thu 3/1/01     Mon 3/3/03            .
140
Task                                     Summary                                   Rolled Up Progress
Project: Implementation Program        Split                                     RolledUpTask                              External Tasks      L
Date: Tue 5/18/99                      Progress                                  Rolled Up Split                           Project Summary _
Milestone                                Rolled Up Milestone 0



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 98                                                             Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
HUBEI PROVINCE                                                                                  page 8 of 9
Table 2. Implementation Program
1998    i1999    12000        2001    12002       2003
iD   Task Name                                                                   Duration        Start           Finish     H1   H2  Hi  H2  Hi  H2 I      Hi  H2  Hi  H2  H14     i H2
141       C. Safety Audit Procedures                                               566 days      Fri 12/31/9%      Fri 3/1/02                   q .
142           Review and no-objection of Bank to TOR, LOI and shortlist of consultants  0 days   Fri 12/31/99    Fri 12/31/99                  4  2I31
143           Issue invitations to consultants                                        7 days     Fri 12/31/99    Mon 1/10/00
144           Last date to receive proposalsComplete proposal evaluation report      35 days     Tue 1/11/00     Mon 2/28/00
145           Bank review proposal evaluation report and no-objection                67 days     Tue 2/29/00     Wed 5/31/00
146           Negotiate with consultant and sign contract                            43 days      Thu 6/1/00     Mon 7/31/00              .
147           Start study                                                            24 days      Tue 8/1/00       Fri 9/1/00
148           Complete study                                                        390 days      Mon 9/4/00       Fri 3/1/02
149       D. Safety on Road work sites                                             436 days      Mon /2/99        Mon 4/2101
150           List of Chinese experts available for Bank review                        I day      Mon 8/2/99      Mon 8/2/99
151           Mobilize consultant/study group                                        22 days      Tue 8/3/99      Wed 9/1/99              *
152           Final proposal and work program review by Bank and no-objection       130 days      Thu 9/2/99      Wed 3/1/00
153           Execute study                                                         283 days      Thu 3/2/00      Mon 4/2/01
154       E. Identification and Remedy of Black spots                               436 days     Mon 8/2199       Mon 4/2/01
155           List of Chinese experts available for Bank review                       0 days      Mon 8/2/99      Mon 8/2/99
156           Mobilize consultant/study group                                       III days      Mon 8/2/99      Mon 1/3/00
157           Final proposal and work program review by Bank and no-objection        42 days      Tue 1/4/00      Wed 3/1/00
158           Execute study                                                         283 days      Thu 3/2/00      Mon 4/2/01
159..                                                                                                                                            ,, 
160 ....  . 
Task                                      Summary                                    Rolled Up Progress
Project: Implementation Program         Split                                     Rolled Up Task                             External Tasks
Date: Tue 5/18/99                       Progress                                  Rolled Up Split                            Project Summary _
Milestone                                 Rolled Up Milestone 0



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 99                                                            Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
HUBEI PROVINCE                                                                                page 9 of 9
Table 2. Implementation Program
198      119       12000    12001    12002    12003  f
ID   Task Name                                                                  Durabon         Start          Finish      HI  H2  Hi  H2 | Hi  H2  H 2H2  Hi  H2   Hi0 H2
161   9. Institutional and Policy Activities                                     1045 days    Wed 3/31/99       Tue 4/1/03
162       A. Institutional Development Plan (IDP)                                 720 days    Wed 3/31/99       Tue 1/1/02                             _
163           IDP for Bank review                                                    0 days    Wed 3/31/99     Wed 3/31/99          e    31
164           Bank review and no-objection                                         66 days     Wed 3/31/99     Wed 6/30/99
165           Execute                                                             654 days       Thu 7/1/99      Tue 1/1/02
166       B. Road Safety Unit program                                            1045 days    Wed 3/31/99       Tue 4/1/03          'g                    g        g       y
167           Program for Bank review                                                0 days    Wed 3/31/99     Wed 3/31/99                1.31
168           Bank review and no-objection9                                        66 days     Wed 3/31/99     Wed 6/30/99
169           Execute                                                              979 days      Thu 7/l/99      Tue 4/1/03
170       C. Training program                                                     849 days    Wed 3/31/99       Mon 7/1/02
171           Program for Bank review                                                0 days    Wed 3/31/99     Wed 3/31/99
172           Bank review and no-objection                                          66 days    Wed 3/31/99     Wed 6/30/99
173           Execute                                                              783 days      Thu 7/1/99     Mon 7/1/02
174       D. Quality Unit program                                                 981 days    Wed 3/31/99       Wed 1/1/03
175           Program for Bank review                                                0 days    Wed 3/31/99     Wed 3/31/99
176           Bank review and no-objection                                         66 days     Wed 3/31/99     Wed 6/30/99
177           Execute                                                             915 days       Thu 7/1/99     Wed 1/1/03
Task                                     Summary                                   Rolled Up Progress
Project: Implementation Program        Split                                     Rolled Up Task                            Extemal Tasks
Date: Tue 5/18/99                      Progress                                  Rolled Up Split                           Project Summary _
Milestone                                Rolled Up Milestone



Project Appraisal Document               Page 100                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
ANNEX 11: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
ARRANGEMENTS
Fourth National Highway Project
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A, A-a, and A-b)
1. Procurement under the project would be carried out as shown in Table A. The procurement
arrangements for the project have taken into account the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, and revised in January, August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999) as well as the experience gained from previous Bank-financed highway projects. The
documentation,. for procurement, which covers the prequalification of contractors, International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for civil works, ICB for goods, and
consultant services contracts has been standardized for Chinese conditions in cooperation between the
Chinese government and the Bank on the basis of model documents which would be used for all relevant
procurement processes under the project. Where no model documents exists, relevant Bank standard
documents would be used.
2.Works. In Hubei, the civil works for ZTE would be divided into 7 contract sections, with an average
contract size of about $36 million equivalent. Electromechanical works would be handled as one contract
amounting to about $10.9 million equivalent. Interconnecting roads, administration and maintenance
buildings, service areas and toll plazas would be carried out in several small contracts. In Hunan, the civil
works for TCE would be divided into 11 contract sections, with an average contract size of $40 million
equivalent. Electromechanical works would be handled in one contract amounting to $14.2 million
equivalent. Administration and maintenance buildings, service areas, and toll plazas would be carried out
in several small contracts.
3. The 7 civil works contracts and one electromechanical works contract for ZTE, the 11 civil works
contracts and one electromechanical works contracts for TCE, with an estimated total cost of about $757
million would be procured following ICB procedures. Contracts would be bid on a slice-and-package
basis; qualified contractors would be allowed to bid for more than one contract so as to attract
international and large Chinese contractors. The 2 contracts for electromechanical works would be bid
later during the construction of ZTE and TCE. All bidders for the 18 civil works contracts would be
prequalified. Domestic bidders are expected to be competitive for all contracts under this project.
4. Other works, including interconnecting roads in Hubei and Hunan and small service facilities such as
toll stations, maintenance depots, service and rest areas, and administrative buildings in Hubei and Hunan
would be awarded following NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. This has been agreed to between
the Bank and the implementing agencies. These works would involve contracts estimated to cost less
than $10 million per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $59.1 million for Hubei and $34.0
million for Hunan. Since these contracts are small in value and scattered along ZTE and TCE and would
be implemented over a four-year period, ICB would be neither justified nor practical, but international
firms would not be precluded from bidding.
5. Equipment. Generally, all contracts for goods and equipment costing more than $250,000 equivalent
would be awarded under ICB. Goods and equipment which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from
a limited number of suppliers may be procured under Limited International Bidding (LIB). All other



Project Appraisal Document                Page 101                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
items or groups of items covering minor maintenance equipment, equipment for RDB and PMS,
laboratories, research and environmental protection purposes estimated to cost less than $250,000 per
contract package, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $2.5 million per province, would be procured
following shopping procedures on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three
suppliers from two countries eligible under the Bank Guidelines for Procurement.
6. Consultants. All consultants required for construction supervision, staff training, technical assistance
and studies would be selected and employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank in
accordance with Bank Guidelines on the "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers", dated January 1997, September 1997 and January 1999. Selection of consultants for
Construction Supervision, Transport and Economic Integration study, Maintenance Costs and Fund
Allocation studies, and Expressway Safety Programs in both provinces will be carried out through
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS). Local expertise available from the various provincial
universities and institutes would be used as much as possible.
7. Advance Contracting. Both HPCDs have requested advance contracting and retroactive financing in
the following areas:
(a)    Consultants for Construction Supervision of ZTE and TCE. This would allow for
training of local staff and start-up of construction supervision by the time contracts are
signed with contractors. The amounts subject to retroactive financing are estimated at $1
million for each province.
(b)    Laboratory Equipment for Joint Local/Foreign Supervision Teams. This would
permit effective and timely construction supervision. The amounts subject to retroactive
financing are estimated at $0.2 million for each province.
(c)    Construction of ZTE and TCE Expressway Sections. Early start of construction of the
ZTE and TCE sections of expressway would help alleviate severe traffic bottlenecks and
reduce traffic on the existing corridors. The amounts subject to retroactive financing are
estimated at $18.8 million for Hunan and at $13.8 million for Hubei.
Prior review thresholds (Table B, B-a, B-b)
8. Prior review procedures would be used for: (a) civil works with an estimated cost of $ 2 million (Y 17
million) or more per contract; (b) equipment with an estimated cost of more than $ 250,000 per contract;
and (c) consulting services with an estimated cost of more than $100,000 per contract for firms and $
50,000 for individuals. In the case of consultant' service contracts, all terms of reference and single-
source selections, regardless of the value of the contract, are subject to prior review. For contracts below
the above-mentioned limits,post-review procedures would be followed. The sampling ratio for contracts
not subject to prior review is 25 %.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C):Allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Table C.
1. Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs): Withdrawal from the loan account would be made on the
basis of SOEs for expenditures for: (a) civil works under contracts costing less than $2.0 million, (b)
goods under contracts costing less than $250,000, (c) services provide by consulting firms under
contracts costing less than $100,000, (d) services provided by individual consultants under contracts
costing less than $50,000, and (e) training.



Project Appraisal Document                    Page 102                       Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
2. Special account: To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be opened for each of Hunan
and Hubei with an authorized allocation of $15 million and $12 million, respectively, the estimated
average expenditures for a four-month period.
Annex 11, Table A: Consolidated Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements]
(in US$million equivalent)
Procurement method
Expenditure Category              ICB   NUB           Other N.B.F.  Total Cost
Works
Expressway Civil Works             731.8                                  731.8
(283.4)                               (283.4)
Annex Areas & Admin. Bldgs                     30.1                        30.1
(10.9)                      (10.9)
Expressway E & M Works              25.1                                   25.1
(18.1)                                (18.1)
Interconnecting Roads                          33.4                        33.4
(12.7)                      (12.7)
Other Roads                                   29.6                         29.6
(3.0)                       (3.0)
Goods
Equipment                            8.1                 1.9               10.1
(5.3)              (0.9)              (6.2)
Services
Construction Supervision                               22.9                22.9
(10.0)             (10.0)
Consultants and Training                                4.9                 4.9
(2.3)              (2.3)
Miscellaneous
Land Acquisition
and Resettlement                                               60.6        60.6
(0.0)       (0.0)
Front-end Fee                                            3.5                3.5
(3.5)              (3.5)
Total                           765.1       93.1    33.2   60.6        952.0
(306.7)    (26.5)   (16.7)  (0.0)     (350.0)
(a)   Other includes intemational shopping, LIB and consultants and training.
(b) N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
(c) Selection of Consultants according to the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
Notes: (1) Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
(2) All figures are rounded and include estimated physical and price contingencies but exclude the cost of
land acquisition and resettlement which is shown as a separate component.
I   For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A,
where applicable).



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 103                       Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Annex 11, Table A-a: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements' Hunan Section
(in US$million)
Procurement method
Expenditure Category              ICB      NCB        O(ther    N.B.F.    Total Cost
Works
Expressway Civil Works          409.5                                        409.5
(161.7)                                     (161.7)
Annex Areas & Admin. Bldgs                    14.4                              14.4
(6.6)                             (6.6)
Expressway E & M Works            14.2                                         14.2
(12.4)                                      (12.4)
Interconnecting Roads                        19.6                              19.6
(8.9)                             (8.9)
Goods
Equipment                           4.3                  0.5                     4.8
(3.5)                (0.2)                  (3.7)
Services
Construction Supervision                                 13.2                   13.2
(3.3)                  (3.3)
Consultants and Training                                 2.8                     2.8
(1.6)                  (1.6)
Miscellaneous
Land Acquisition
and Resettlement                                                   38.4         38.4
(0.0)       (0.0)
Front-end Fee                                            2.0                     2.0
(2.0)                  (2.0)
Total                          428.0       34.0       18.6      38.4        519.0
(177.6)    (15.4)      (7.0)      (0.0)     (200.0)
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A,
where applicable).



Project Appraisal Document                        Page 104                         Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Annex 11, Table A-b: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements] Hubei Section
(in US$million)
Procurement method
Expenditure Category                lCB       NCB        Other      N.B.F.    Total Cost
Works
Expressway Civil Works             322.3                                          322.3
(121.7)                                        (121.7)
Annex Areas & Admin. Bldgs                        15.7                                15.7
(4.3)                              (4.3)
Expressway E & M Works               10.9                                           10.9
(5.7)                                          (5.7)
Interconnecting Roads                           13.8                                13.8
(3.8)                              (3.8)
Other Roads                                      29.6                                29.6
(3.0)                              (3.0)
Goods
Equipment                              3.8                   1.4                      5.2
(1.8)                 (0.7)                    (2.5)
Services
Construction Supervision                                      9.6                     9.6
(6.8)                   (6.8)
Consultants and Training                                      2.1                     2.1
(0.8)                   (0.8)
Miscellaneous
Land Acquisition
and Resettlement                                                        22.2         22.2
(0.0)        (0.0)
Front-end Fee                                                1.5                      1.5
(1.5)                   (1.5)
Total                            337.0        59.1       14.6       22.2         433.0
(129.2)     (11.1)      (9.7)       (0.0)      (150.0)
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A,
where applicable).



Project Appraisal Document                      Page 105                       Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Annex 11, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Reviewl
Contract Value                       Contracts Subject to Prior Review/
(Threshold)        Procurement        Estimated Total Value Subject
Expenditure         (US$'000,000)          Method           to Prior Review (US$ million)
Category
1. Works          More than 2.0                 ICB       20 Contracts
$757 million subject to prior review
More than 2.0               NCB        42 Contracts
$93.1 million subject to prior review
2. Goods           More than 0.25               ICB       4 Contracts
$9.7 million subject to prior review
3. Services       More than 0.10 for           QCBS       Supervision Contracts $22.8 million,
firms, more than 0.05                  training and studies $4.9 million subject
for individuals                        to prior review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:              $887 million
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and
contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Project Appraisal Document                      Page 106                        Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Annex 11, Table B-a: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Reviewl
Hunan Province
Contract Vaiue                        Contracts Subject to Prior Review/
(Threshold)        Procurement        Estimated Total Value Subject
Expenditure         (US$'000,000)          Method           to Prior Review (US$ million)
Category
1. Works          More than 2.0                 ICB       12 Contracts
$423.7 million subject to prior review
More than 2.0               NCB        23 Contracts
$34.0 million subject to prior review
2. Goods           More than 0.25               ICB       2 Contracts
$5.9 million subject to prior review
3. Services        More than 0.10 for          QCBS       Supervision Contracts $13.2 million,
firms, more than 0.05                  training and studies $2.8 million subject
for individuals                        to prior review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:              $479 million
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and
contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Project Appraisal Document                      Page 107                        Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Annex 11, Table B-b: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Reviewl
Hubei Province
Contract Value                       Contracts Subject to Prior Review/
(Threshold)        Procurement        Estimated Total Value Subject
Expenditure         (US$'000,000)          Method           to Prior Review (US$ million)
Category
1. Works          More than 2.0                 ICB       8 Contracts
$333.2 million subject to prior review
More than 2.0               NCB        19 Contracts
$59.1 million subject to prior review
2. Goods          More than 0.25                ICB       2 Contracts
$3.8 million subject to prior review
3. Services        More than 0.10 for          QCBS       Supervision Contracts $9.6 million,
firms, more than 0.05                  training and studies $2.1 million subject
for individuals                        to prior review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:              $408 million
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and
contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Project Appraisal Document                            Page 108                           Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Annex 11, Table C- 1: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
($ million)
Lonsolidatea Hubei           Llsbursement
and Hunan              Profile of Projects
Hubei Component         Hunan Component          Component                   in China
Annual Cumulat.   %    Annual Cumulat.   %        Annual  Cumulat.   %/7             %
FY 2000       13        13    9        20        20   10          33       33    9             6
FY 2001       42        55   37        50        70   35          92       125   36            16
FY 2002       42        97   65        50       120   60          92      217   62             38
FY 2003       47       144   96        40       160   80          87      304   87             60
FY 2004        6       150   100       30       190   95          36      340   97             78
FY 2005                                 10      200   100         10      350   100           100



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 109                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Annex 11, Table C-2: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount m US$
Expenditure Category          million               Financed Percentage
Civil works
Hubei expressway section            114.7                      45%
Hubei annex areas & admin. bldgs.   2.5                        20%
Hubei interconnecting roads         2.2                        20%
Hubei other roads                   2.3                        10%
Hunan expressway section            154.1                      48%
Hunan annex areas & admin. bldgs.   2.8                        25%
Hunan interconnecting roads         3.8                        25%
Electrical and mechanical works
Hubei E&M works                     6.9                        80%
Hunan E&M works                     10.3                       70%
Construction supervision
Hubei supervision                   2.2                        100%
Hunan supervision                   2.7                        100%
Equipment
Hubei equipment                     2.4             100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost ) and 75% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally
Hunan equipment                     3.0             100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 75% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally
Training and Studies
Hubei TA/Studies and training       0.3                        100%
Hunan TA/Studies and training        1.3                       100%
Front-end Fee                          3.5                       100%
Hubei unallocated                     15.0
Hunan unallocated                     20.0
Total                              350.0



Project Appraisal Document               Page 110                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
ANNEX 12: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL EVALUATION
Fourth National Highway Project
1. The economic evaluation focuses on: (i) the new expressway between Zhengdian and Hunan Border in
Hubei Province and Hubei border and Changsha in Hunan Province; (ii) the expressway link roads; and
(iii) the other roads program in Hubei, which together account for 98 percent of the project costs. The
expressway was subdivided into six sections, based on traffic and construction cost considerations, which
were analyzed independently. The following table presents each project component length and financial
construction costs including physical and price contingencies.
Province    Component                               Length      Cost
(kIm)    (M Yuan)
Hubei      Zhengdian - Zhang Gong Expressway         36.3       1,081
Zhang Gong - Gang Tang Expressway         17.9       700
Gang Tang - Tu Cheng Expressway           55.6       1,366
Hunan      Tu Cheng - Wujiang Expressway             63.2       1,599
Wujiang - Wushi Expressway                54.2       1,371
Wushi - Changsha Expressway               65.4       1,656
Subtotal                                             292.6      7,773
Hubei      Four Link Roads                           28.2        138
Two Other Roads                           164.0      305
Hunan      Four Link Roads                           30.0        156
Subtotal                                             222.2       599
Total                                                514.8      8,372
A. Expressway Economic Evaluation
2. Benefits and Beneficiaries. The Zhengdian (Wuhan) - Changsha expressway is part of the Beijing -
Zhuhai expressway that belongs to the "Two Vertical, Two Horizontal Main Truck Highways" being
constructed by the state. The Beijing - Zhuhai Expressway goes via Beijing, Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Hunan
and Guangdong cities and provinces. Those areas are the developed zones in the country and the
completion of the project is of great significance both to the national economy and social development.
The completion of the expressway, which links up the Hubei and Hunan Provinces, will surely assist
Hubei and Hunan Provinces consummate its road network and alleviate the bottleneck of traffic
congestion on highways. The expressway runs parallel to National Highway No. 107, a class 2 highway
that is taken as the main passage in existing highways of south-north direction. National Highway No.
107 is suited for up to a traffic volume of 7,500 vehicles per day and is reaching its capacity. Heavy
traffic burden and commercialization of the highway cause frequent traffic jams and traffic accidents
being a key factor affecting the economic development in the area.
3. The major quantifiable project benefits are vehicle operating costs, travel time, and road accidents
savings. Compared with the existing road parallel to the expressway, the expressway will have shorter
length, improved surface condition and riding comfort, and reduced traffic interference due to
pedestrians, bicycles and non-motorized vehicles. Therefore, most of the long distance traffic and some
of the local traffic is expected to diverge from the existing road to the expressway reducing vehicle
operating and time costs for the expressway users. Since many users will take the expressway, there will
be a reduction on the current congestion levels on the existing road. Thus, users who remain on the



Project Appraisal Document                Page 111                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
existing road will also benefit in the form of time savings due to the resulting higher travel speeds. Other
quantified project benefits are due to the generated traffic as a result of the lowering of transport costs,
increased industrial and agricultural production, and traffic diversion from the railway. For a conservative
evaluation, other project benefits not quantified in this study are the generated traffic on the existing
roads due to the reduction of the current congestion level and positive effects on the non-motorized traffic
using the existing roads.
4. The HDM Model. Project benefits were estimated using the 1995 version of the Highways Design and
Maintenance Standards Model (HDM) developed by the World Bank. The HDM model predicts vehicle
operating costs and travel time costs on a given road as a function of vehicle characteristics, road
geometry, road surface condition, and congestion level. The model computes free-flow vehicle speeds
and actual speeds as a function of the congestion level. The computed actual speeds are then used to
estimate the physical quantities of resource consumption (for example: liters per km of fuel consumption
or hours of delay) that are multiplied by unit costs to obtain road user costs.
5. Data Collection. The Zhengdian - Changsha expressway was divided into six sections, three in each
Province, to take into account different traffic levels, distance savings, and construction costs. Data
describing the expressway sections is presented in Table 12.1. The expressways sections will be
constructed to 2x2 lanes, with an average financial construction cost of 28 million Yuan per km,
economic costs being 70 percent of financial costs eliminating taxes, custom duties, price contingencies,
and interest payments during construction. The expressway will be designed according to MOC's
expressway standards with access restricted to normal motor traffic; agricultural tractor and non-
motorized traffic would be excluded. Compared with the existing road, National Highway No. 107, there
will be an average distance savings of 19 percent.
6. Data was collected on vehicle fleet characteristics, utilization and unit costs, which are given inTable
12.2. The average number of passengers for buses is 40 and the average payload for medium trucks is 4.8
tons and for heavy trucks is 7.5 tons. The number of kilometers driven per year is 70,000 for buses,
50,000 for medium trucks and 30,000 for heavy trucks. The economic costs were derived from financial
costs by deducting taxes and subsidies; and the value of time was estimated to be 2.0 Yuan/hour
calculated on the basis of annual income for the region and assuming that 70 percent of passengers are
traveling on work/business purposes and the value of non-working time is 25 percent of the average
income. Based on local data, accident benefits were computed assuming that the accidents rate on the
existing roads is 200 accidents per 100 million vehicle-km, there will be a 50 percent reduction in
accidents on the expressway, and the cost per accident is 7,700 Yuan. The table below presents some
recent accident statistics in the project area.
Class of   Name of                         Number per 100 million vehicle-km
Highway   Highway                       Accidents     Injuries      Fatalities
Expressway  Changsha - Xiangtan            133            32           15
1      Wuhan - Huangshi Road           127           94            30
2      NH107 Changsha Section          139           176           12
2      NH107 Liaxiang Section          279           72            27
2      NH107 Miluo Section             133           85            20
2      NH107 Zhengdian Section         220           122           49
3      Wuhan - Puqi Road               439           260           47
4      NH106 Pingjiang Section         276           327           97
4       Baili - Jieshan Road           842           640           189



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 112                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
7. Projected Traffic. Traffic counts and comprehensive origin-destination (OD) surveys were conducted
that provided a good basis for estimating the expressway diverted and generated traffic. The survey
revealed the following: (a) the average daily traffic (ADT) on National Highway No. 107 was on average
around 6,700 vehicles per day in 1997; (b) trucks constitute about 76 percent of ADT; (c) medium trucks
represent about 50 percent of ADT and heavy trucks represent 16 percent of ADT; (d) on National
Highway No. 107, current measured truck speeds in the most congested hour are about 30 km/hour and at
night about 60 km/hour; (e) the expected speeds on the expressway are 85 km/hour; and (f) the traffic in
the peak hour is about 11 percent of the average daily traffic. The following table presents for each
section the estimated motorized traffic on National Highway No. 107 in 1999 and 2003, and the expected
diverted and generated traffic on the expressway in 2003.
No 107 in  No 107 in  Diverted   to  Generated   on
1999     2003        Expressway in  Expressway  in
2003          2003
Zhengdian - Zhang Gong           7239      10410        6863            1540
Zhang Gong - Gang Tang           7049       9933        6546            1480
Gang Tang - Tu Cheng             6363       9557        6468            1621
Tu Cheng - Wujiang               8268      12024        7879            2530
Wujiang - Wushi                  8977      13236        10127           2733
Wushi - Changsha                10628      15099        11267           2746
8. On the basis of the OD surveys and considering that the expressway will be tolled at the same levels as
currently is being charged on other expressways in the region, the diversion of traffic from the existing
road was estimated to be on average 69 percent and the generated traffic to be on average 19 percent of
the traffic on the existing road. The generated traffic includes traffic that would divert from the railway,
which is on average 11 percent of the total traffic on the expressway and 57 percent of the generated
traffic. The railway diverted traffic considers the current railway condition and a diversion from the
railway to the expressway on average of 15 percent for passengers and a 2 percent for freight. The
railway diverted traffic will not be large due to the fact that the highway and railway transportation is
rationalized and share the work economically, with the railway average length of haul for passengers and
freight transportation of 762 km and 1338 krn, respectively and highway average length of haul of 42 km
and 52 km, respectively. Once the planned improvements to the railway take place, it is estimated that the
diverted traffic will reduce by 4 percent. Taking into consideration the economic development and traffic
growth in the past and based on the expected economic growth in the project area of influence in the
future, the traffic is projected to increase on average at the following annual rates: a) for the period 1999 -
2003, 14 percent for cars and 8 percent for commercial vehicles; b) for the period 2004 - 2013, 1 1 percent
for cars and 7 percent for commercial vehicles; and c) for the period 2014 - 2022, 6 percent for cars and 4
percent for commercial vehicles. From 1990 to 1996, National Highway No. 107 had on average a 18
percent annual traffic growth rate and the project area of influence had on average a 12 percent annual
GDP growth rate.
9. Methodology. For each expressway section, unit road user costs, in Yuan per vehicle-km, were
estimated using the HDM model for vehicles traveling on the expressway and on National Highway No.
107 based on the road data shown in Table 12.1 and vehicle data shown in Table 12.2. A sample of these
unit road user costs is given in Table 12.3. Road user costs are a function of the congestion level of a
road, therefore, they were computed for a series of traffic levels and a relationship between road user
costs and traffic was established for each road. This relationship was then introduced into a customized
economic evaluation model created on an Excel spreadsheet.



Project Appraisal Document              Page 113                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
10. The Excel model estimates benefits due to diverted and generated traffic on the expressway and the
remaining traffic on the existing road. For diverted traffic, benefits were taken to be the reduction on total
transport costs; and for generated traffic, benefits were taken to be one-half of the unit benefits of the
diverted traffic assuming traffic would have developed in proportion to the reduction in transport costs.
The Excel model takes as inputs the unit road user costs given by HDM for the "with" and "without"
project cases, the length of the expressway and the existing road, the construction and maintenance costs,
and the traffic assumptions; and gives as outputs the rate of return and the net present value, at a discount
rate of 12 percent, of the proposed project. The expressway is assumed to be constructed in 4 years,
opening to traffic in 2003 with an economic life of 20 years and a residual value equal to 50 percent of
the initial construction cost. Table 12.4 shows, as an example, the resulting outputs for the Zhengdian -
Zhang Gong section.
11. Results. The following table presents the resulting economic internal rate of return (EIRR) and net
present value (NPV), at 12 percent discount rate in million Yuan, obtained for each expressway section
and the entire expressway. The entire expressway EIRR is 25.2 percent and none of the sections has an
EIRR below 12.0 percent. The expressway section with lower EIRR is the Zhang Gong - Gang Tang
section, which has the highest construction costs due to the bridges it contains. The section with higher
EIRR is the Wujiang - Wushi section, which has distance savings of 14 percent and the second highest
traffic.
Expressway                      Economic            Net
Internal          Present
Rate of Return       Value
(%)        (M Yuan at 12 %)
Zhengdian - Zhang Gong            21.5              828
Zhang Gong - Gang Tang            18.6              338
Gang Tang - Tu Cheng              21.4             1,019
Tu Cheng - Wujiang                28.0             2,328
Wujiang - Wushi                   29.1             2,171
Wushi - Changsha                  26.7             2,123
Hubei Section                     20.9             2,184
Hunan Section                     27.9             6,622
Entire Expressway                 25.2             8,806
B. Link Roads and Other Roads Economic Evaluation
12. Link and Other Roads. In order to make the Zhengdian - Changsha expressway connect rationally
with other roads in the area, eight interconnecting link roads are planned to be constructed as part of this
project, which are Ma An Shan, Zhang Gong, Gang Tang, and Quan Kou link roads in Hubei and
Liaxiang, Pinjian, Kaihui, and Guangfu link roads in Hunan. Also two other roads are part of the project,
which are Dawu - Hongan and Tongshan - Puqi in Hubei. The table below presents the main
characteristics of each road.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 114                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Province  Road               Length   Road   Traffic  New      alignment Costs
(km)     Class  2002    or upgrading         (M Yuan)
Hubei    Ma An Shan          1.7        2    1034    New                  8
Zhang Gong         10.0       2    2443    New                  56
Gang Tang         7.1         2    5558    Upgrading            19
Quan Kou          9.4         2    1012    New                 55
Tongshan - Puqi    69.0       2    5508    Upgrading            135
Dawu - Hongan     95.0        2     1394    Upgrading           170
Hunan    Liaxiang            2.9        2    2780    New                  27
Pinjian            16.5       2    5977    New & Upgrading   80
Kaihui             8.0        2    3403    Upgrading           37
Guangfu           2.5         2    1800    New                  12
13. Results. The following table presents the resulting EIRR and NPV (at 12 percent discount rate in
million Yuan) obtained for each road following the same methodology applied to the expressway. That is,
computing the net benefits of vehicle operating costs and travel time savings comparing the with and
without project scenario based on available data on the existing roads characteristics, the proposed
projects, and the forecasted traffic.
Province   Road                      Economic Internal    Net Present Value
Rate of Return (%)      (M Yuan)
Hubei      Ma An Shan                      20.3                 4
Zhang Gong                     34.2                 100
Gang Tang                      46.8                 76
Quan Kou                       20.7                 32
Tongshan - Puqi                44.4                 779
Dawu - Hongan                  33.4                 316
Hunan      Liaxiang                        24.8                 28
Pinjian                        57.6                 480
Kaihui                         34.6                 75
Guangfu                        25.7                  12
C. Overall Project Economic Evaluation
14. The overall project, which includes the expressway sections, the link roads, and the other roads,
yields a NPV of 10,879 million Yuan and an EIRR of 26.2 percent. The modified EIRR is 17.7 percent
assuming a 12 percent financing and reinvestment rate. The sensitivity analysis, the switching values, and
the risk analysis indicate that the project economic justification is quite robust with a most likely EIRR of
23.0 percent and a zero percent chance that the EIRR will be less than 12 percent. The following table
presents a summary of the results and the net benefits distribution, which shows that cars will receive 28
percent of the project net benefits, buses 21 percent, and trucks 52 percent.
Net      Modified  Likely
Benefits  EIRR   EIRR   EIRR
(M Yuan)  (/)   (N)    (%)
Society               10879 26.2%  17.7%  23.0%
Road Agency          -5236
Road Users           16116_



Project Appraisal Document                      Page 115                        Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Net                             Net Benefits
Benefits Percent    Cars   Buses  Trucks   Total  Cars Buses Trucks Total
(M Yuan)   (%/6) (M Yuan) (M Yuan) (M Yuan) (M Yuan)  (%/) (%/.)  (%/.)  (%')
RoadUser                  16116  100%    4476    3337    8302   16116  28%  21%  52%  100%
Expressway Diverted traffic    12627   78%    3403    2429    6795   12627  27%  19%  54%  100%
Expressway Generated traffic    1500    9%  356    319    825    1500  24%  21%   55%  100%
Existing Roads            1900   12%      701     583    616    1900  37%  31%  32%  100%
Safety                      88    1%       16      6       66     88  18%  7%   75%  100%
15. Sensitivity Analysis. Table 12.5 presents detailed results of sensitivity tests, which are summarized
in the table below. The results show: (a) if construction costs increase by 20 percent and user benefits
reduce by 20 percent, the project EIRR is 20.3 percent, which indicates that even under this pessimistic
scenario the project is justified; (b) if the traffic diversion reduces by 20 percent and 50 percent, the
project EIRR reduces to 23.9 percent and 18.9 percent respectively; (c) if accident benefits reduce by 20
percent, there is a negligible reduction on the project EIRR, (d) if time savings reduce by 20 percent, the
project EIRR reduces to 25.5 percent and if time savings are eliminated the project EIRR reduces to 22.1
percent; (e) if generated traffic benefits are eliminated, the project EIRR reduces to 24.7 percent; (f) if
there is no diversion of traffic from the railway, the project EIRR reduces to 25.3 percent; (g) the
construction costs and diverted traffic have almost the same sensitivity; and (h) a 6 year construction
period decreases the project EIRR to 20.6 percent.
Case   Scenario                                       Entire Project
EIRR (%)
0     Base case                                          26.2
1     Construction costs increased by 20%               23.4
2     User benefits reduced by 20%                       22.8
3     Combination of 1 and 2                             20.3
4a    Time savings reduced by 20%                        25.5
4b    No time savings                                    21.1
5     Accident benefits reduced by 20%                  26.2
6a    Generated traffic reduced by 20%                   25.9
6b    No generated traffic                               24.7
6c    No traffic diversion from the railway              25.3
7a    Diverted traffic reduced by 20%                    23.9
7b    Diverted traffic reduced by 50%                    18.9
8     Traffic growth rate reduced by 20%                23.7
9     5 year construction period                         23.7
10    6 year construction period                         20.9
16. Switching Values Analysis. Table 12.5 presents the results of the switching values analysis. The
table shows that, for the entire project, construction costs have to be multiplied by a factor of 3.14 or user
benefits have to be multiplied by a factor of 0.32 to yield a project EIRR of 12.0 percent. For each
expressway section, the construction costs multiplier factor varies from 1.82 to 8.03 and the net user
benefits multiplier factor varies from 0.12 to 0.55. The analysis shows that there is a good allowance for
possible construction costs increases or reduction of net benefits. One can state that to yield a project
EIRR of 12.0 percent, construction costs would have to be multiplied by around 3 or net benefits divided
by around 3.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 116                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
17. Risk Analysis. A risk analysis was done using the @RISK software that adds risk analysis
capabilities to an Excel spreadsheet following the methodology that is explained briefly inTable 12.6.
The uncertainty for the following inputs was defined using a triangle distribution: (a) construction costs,
(b) existing traffic on the existing road, (c) diverted traffic to the expressway, (d) generated traffic, and
(e) traffic growth rate. Considering possible sampling errors associated with measured data, model
uncertainty, and uncertainties due to forecasting by judgment (e.g., optimistic and pessimistic scenarios of
economic growth), it was defined that: (a) there is an equal probability that the construction costs and
existing traffic on National Highway No. 107 will be lower or higher than the estimated values, and (b)
there is a higher probability that diverted traffic, generated traffic, and traffic growth rate will be lower
rather than higher than the estimated values.
18. For construction costs and existing traffic, the most likely value was set to the estimated value, the
minimum possible value was set to 80 percent of the estimated value, and the maximum possible value
was set to 120 percent of the estimated value. These assumptions indicate that there is a 50 percent
probability that the actual values will be lower or higher than the estimated value and there is 74 percent
probability that the actual values will be between 90 and 110 percent of the estimated value. For the
diverted traffic, generated traffic and traffic growth rate inputs, the most likely value was set to the
estimated value, the minimum possible value was set to 50 percent of the estimated value, and the
maximum possible value was set to 110 percent of the estimated value. These assumptions indicate that
there is an 83 percent probability that the actual values will be lower than the estimated value, 17 percent
probability that they will be higher than the estimated value, and 62 percent probability that they will be
between the estimated value and 75 percent of the estimated value. Table 12.7 shows the frequency
distributions adopted in the study.
19. With this information, the @RISK software evaluated 400 what-if scenarios, varying the inputs
described above accordingly to the defined input probability distributions, yielding an estimated EIRR for
each what-if scenario. The resulting frequency histogram graph and cumulative frequency distribution
graph are given in Table 12.7 for the entire project. Table 12.5 presents the resulting mean EIRR, the
EIRR standard deviation, the probability (in percent) that the EIRR will be lower than 12.0 percent, and
an assessment of a worst scenario, most likely scenario, and best scenario for all expressway sections. In
this study, the worst scenario EIRR is defined as one which has a 10 percent probability that the actual
EIRR will be lower than it (10% percentile), the best case scenario EIRR is defined as one which has a 90
percent probability that the actual EIRR will be lower than it (90% percentile), and the most likely
scenario is defined as one which has a 50 percent probability that the actual EIRR will be lower than it
(50% percentile). The results are summarized in the table below. The risk analysis shows that all sections
and the entire project have an EIRR greater than 12.0 percent even for the worst scenario. The entire
project EIRR is 18.9 percent for the worst scenario, 23.0 percent for the most likely scenario, and 26.1
percent for the best scenario.



Project Appraisal Document                       Page 117                        Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Province     Component                           EIRR           EIRR        Probability
Mean         Standard.    EIRR< 12%
(%/6)       Deviation        (%)
(%)
Hubei        Zheng Dian - Zhang Gong              18.4           2.4            0.8
Zhang Gong - Gang Tang               15.8           2.2           6.8
Gang Tang - Tu Cheng                 18.3           2.4           0.8
Hunan        Tu Cheng - Wujiang                   24.4           2.8            0.0
Wujiang - Wushi                     25.5            2.9           0.0
Wushi - Changsha                    23.4            2.7           0.0
Hubei        Four Link Roads                      26.6           3.0            0.0
Two Other Roads                     33.9            4.2           0.0
Hunan        Four Link Roads                      31.9           2.8            0.0
Overall                                           22.8           2.7            0.0
Project
Province     Component                           EIRR            EIRR            EIRR
Worst        Most Likely.       Best
Scenario        Scenario        Scenario
(%/-)           (%/0)          (%/6)
Hubei        Zhengdian-Zhang Gong                 14.9            18.7            21.4
Zhang Gong - Gang Tang               12.7            16.0            18.5
Gang Tang - Tu Cheng                 14.8            18.5           21.2
Hunan        Tu Cheng - Wujiang                   20.5            24.7            27.8
Wujiang - Wushi                     21.5            25.7            28.9
Wushi - Changsha                     19.6            23.6            26.7
Hubei        Four Link Roads                      22.6            26.9            30.5
Two Other Roads                     28.2            34.2            39.1
Hunan        Four Link Roads                      28.1            32.1            35.5
Overall                                           18.9            23.0            26.1
Project
20. Conclusion. The single point estimation and sensitivity analysis indicate that the EIRRs are greater
than 12.0 percent for all sections and for the entire project. The risk analysis indicates that the most likely
EIRRs are also greater that 12.0 percent for all sections and for the entire project and that the probability
that the entire project EIRR will be lower than 12.0 percent is zero. Therefore, the project is economically
well-justified.
D. Expressway Financial Evaluation
21. The financial evaluation focuses on the Zhengdian - Changsha expressway, which is the main
component of the project and the only one that will generate financial income with profit-making and
repayment capabilities. The toll revenue is the only mayor financial income from operation of the
Zhengdian - Changsha expressway. Tolls will be charged as a function of vehicle type and size and
distance traveled at the same level and structure as the tolls currently being collected on tolled
expressways in Hubei and Hunan Provinces. The tables below present the current tolls on Hubei and
Hunan expressways and an estimate of the current tolls on Class 2 National Highway No. 107 based on
the fact that vehicles pay tolls per toll station and the average distance between toll stations is 59 km.
Tolls on National Highway No. 107 being around 80 percent the expressways tolls indicate that the



Project Appraisal Document              Page 118                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
expressways tolls are reasonable considering the much higher level of service provided by the
expressways.
Vehicle    Trucks   Cars & Buses  Expressways Tolls
Class      (tons)     (seats)    (YuanNVehicle-km)
A          < 2.0       < 17             0.25
B         2.0 - 5.0    18 - 50          0.50
C          > 5.0       > 51             0.75
Vehicle              Toll per Station  Avg. Weight  Highway 107 Tolls*
Class                    (Yuan)         (tons)    (YuanNVehicle-km)
Motorcycle                 3                             0.05
Car                        5                             0.08
Small Truck or Bus      5 per ton        1.3             0.11
Medium Truck or Bus     5 per ton        4.5             0.38
Heavy Truck or Bus      5 per ton        7.5             0.64
* assuming 59 km between toll stations
22. The financial evaluation was done assuming that: (a) tolls are expected to increase about every five
years to take account of inflation, expected to be around 5 percent annually, (b) maintenance costs and
operation costs are also expected to increase at around 5 percent annually to take account of inflation, (c)
financial costs include investment during construction phase and costs in operation phase including
maintenance costs, toll gates management costs, administration costs, and taxes of 3 percent of toll
income, and (d) considering that some special vehicles such as: police, ambulance, and military vehicles,
will not be charged, tolling traffic volume is 95 percent of the predicted traffic. Considering that around
32 percent of the investment will be financed by the World Bank with 7.85 percent interest rate, 29
percent of the investment will be financed locally with 10.50 percent interest rate, and the opportunity
cost of capital is 5 percent, the weighted average cost of capital is 7.5 percent. The table below
summarizes the financial evaluation.
Financial           Net
Internal          Present
Rate of Return       Value
(%)        (M Yuan at 7.5 %)
Zhengdian - Zhang Gong            10.9              475
Zhang Gong - Gang Tang             7.8               20
Gang Tang - Tu Cheng              12.6              942
Tu Cheng - Wujiang                14.0              1,478
Wujiang - Wushi                   16.2              1,862
Wushi - Changsha                  17.3             2,628
Zhengdian - Changsha              14.1              7,405



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 119                      Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
23. The entire expressway financial rate of return is 14.1 percent with a net present value of 7,405 million
Yuan at 7.5 discount rate and an investment recovery period of 15 years. Three cases were considered in
the sensitivity analysis: construction costs increase by 20 percent, revenues decrease by 20 percent, and
construction costs increase by 20 percent meanwhile revenues decrease by 20 percent. The corresponding
project financial rates of return of 12.2 percent, 11.8 percent, and 10.0 percent indicate that even under
the most unfavorable situation, the financial benefits are high with a financial rate of return over the
weighted average cost of capital of 7.5 percent.



Project Appraisal Docurnent                                               Page 120                                        Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Table 12.1 - Expressway Sections Data
expressway Secuons
Province                                                            Hubei         Hubei        Hubei    Hunan    Hunan        Hunan
Road name                                                   Zheng Dian -  Zhang Gong - Gang Tang -     Tandu - Wujiang -     Wushi -
Zhang Gong   Gang Tang   Tu Cheng         Wujiang   Wushi Niujiaochong
Financial construebon oast (million Yuan)                            1081          700         136e      1599      1371         1656
Economic construction cost (million Yuan)                             757          490          956      1119       960         1159
Project road length (km)                                              36.3         17.9         55.6      63.2      54.2        65.4
Project road width (m)                                                23.5         23.5         23.5      23,5      23.5        23.5
Project road average roughness (IRI)                                   2.5          2.5          2.5       2.5       2.5         2.5
Existng road length (km)                                              47.0         26.0         70.0      82.0      63.3        66.1
Existing road width (m)                                                9.0          9.0          9.0       9.0       9.0         9.0
Existing road average roughness (IRI)                                  5.0          5.0          5.0       5.0       5.0         5.0
Motorized traffic on existing roads in 1999 (ADT)                    7239         7049         5363      8268      8977        10628
Motorized traffic on existng roads in 2003, before (ADT)            10410         9933         9557     12024    13236         15099
Motorized traffic on existing roads in 2003, after (ADT)             3547         3367         3089      4135      3219         5009
Diverted motorized traffic on expressway in 2003 (ADT)               6863         6546         6468      7879    10127         11267
Generated motorized traffic on expressway in 2003 (ADT)              1540         1480         1621      2530      2733         2746
Total motorized traffic on expressway In 2003 (ADT)                  8403         8026         8089     10409    12860         14013
Total motorized trafc on expressway in 2022 (ADT)                   26654        24494        25060     30498    36807         40684
Percent of cars:                                                      13%           8%           5%       18%      20%          21%
Percent of small buses:                                               4%            2%           3%        5%        5%          5%
Percent of medium buses:                                              7%            4%           5%        8%        9%          6%
Percent of light trucks (gross weight 3.0 to 6.5 t):                  6%            4%           4%        6%        7%          8%
Percent of medium trucks (gross weight 5.0 to 16.0 t):               55%           66%          64%       45%      42%          28%
Peneantofheavytrucks(grossweight6.0to22.01):                         12%           15%          18%       15%       11%         24%
Percent of articulated tucks (gross weight 13.0 to 45.0 t):           2%            1%           1%        4%       6%           9%
Growth rate for cars for period 1999-2003 (%):                        14%          14%          15%       14%       14%         14%
Growthrateforcarmtorperiod2004-2008(%):                               11%          11%          10%       10%       11%         11%
Growthrate forcarsforperiod2009-2013(%):                             11%           11%          10%       10%       11%         11%
Grwth rate for cars for period 2014-2022 (%):                         6%            6%           5%        6%        6%          5%
Growth rate for commercial vehicles for period 1999-2003 (%):          8%           8%          10%        8%        8%          7%
Growth rate for commerdial vehicles for period 2004-2008 (%):          8%           8%           6%        6%        5%          5%
Growth rate for commercial vehicles for period 2009-2013 (%):          8%           8%           8%        6%        5%          5%
Growth rate for commercial vehides for period 2014-2022 (%):           4%           4%           4%        3%        3%          4%
Cars speeds on existing roads on most congested hour (km/hr):          40           40           40        40        32           34
Cars speeds on existing roads at nght (kmf/r):                         70           70           70        52        52           55
Med. trucks speeds on existing roads on most congested hour (kmihr):   30           30           30        38        30           32
Med. truCks speeds on existing roads at night (kmihr):                 60           60           60        67        56           59
Predicted passenger cars speeds on new expressway (knihr):             80           80           80        80        80           80
Predicted medium trucks speeds on new expressway (kmihr):              75           75           75        75        75           75
Financial Construction cost per km (million Yuan)                    29.8          39.1         24.5      25.3      25.3        25.3
Distance savings (%):                                               -23%          -31%        -21%       -23%     -14%          -1%
Diverted traffic as percent of normal traffic, in 2008 (%)           e6%          56%          68%        66%      77%          75%
Geweratedtrafficaspercento nofrmltraf c,in2003(%)                     15%          15%          17%       21%      21%          18%
NH14 I LVJ1.ALb DIWY



Project Appraisal Document                                         Page 121                                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Table 12.2 - Vehicle Fleet Characteristics
Small            Light Medium    Heavy Articulated
Cars   Buses   Buses  Trucks  Trucks  Trucks    Trucks
Gross vehicle weight of fully loaded average vehicle (tons)  2.00  4.70    12.00  3.75    12.90    28.00   42.00
Payload of fully loaded average vehicle (tons)        1.00     1.25    6.00     1.25    4.90     9.00      14.00
Gross vehicle weight of average vehicle (tons)        1.20     2.50    8.00     4.00    8.00    17.00      28.00
Payload of average vehicle (tons)                     0.24     0.48    1.80     0.85    4.80     7.50      11.00
Number of passengers (#)                                 3      15       40       0        0        0         0
Service life (years)                                    12      12       12       12      12       12         12
Kilometers driven per year (km)                     30000   30000   70000   50000   50000   30000         20000
Hours driven per year (hours)                         850      850    2000    1500    1500        800       700
Economic Costs
Newvehideprice(Yuan)                                160000   48000  104000   64000   96000  144000    240000
One new tire price (Yuan)                              320     320      800     800      800      960       960
Maintenance labor cost for vehice repairs (Yuan/hour)  3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0
Driver wages (Yuan/hour)                               3.6      3.6     3.6      3.0     3.6      3.6        4.0
Passenger Time costs (Yuantpassenger-hour)             2.0      2.0     2.0      0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0
Cargo Time costs (Yuan/vehicle-hour)                   0.0      0.0     0.0      4.0     4.0      4.0        4.0
Gas/Petrol price (Yuan/liter)                 2.1
Diesel price (Yuan/liter)                     2.0
Lubricants price (Yuan/liter)                 12.6
Income  Income                           Working Nonworking
Yuani   Yuan/         % traveling      time    time
Year    Hour         work/business     value    value              Yuan/hr
5400      2.6           70%              100%     25%                   2.0
Real (without inflation) interest
charge on the purchase of a new vehicle:       10
Articulated Trucks
4%           Cr
Heavy Trucks                  14%
Typical Vehicle Composition                                 16%
Small Buses
4%
Buses
8%
Light Trucks
6%
Medium Trucks
50%
NI-14-1 B02.XLS  /5/99



Project Appraisal Document                                       Page 122                                  Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Table 12.3 - Typical Road User Costs
Small              Light  Medium    Heavy rticulated
Cars    Buses    Buses   Trucks   Trucks   Trucks   Trucks
Typical Road User Costs
(Yuan per vehicle-kilometer)
New Expressway                           1.24      0.88     1.92     0.75     1.14      1.92     2.57
Existing Class 2 Road (1250 AOT)         1.52      1.15     2.50     0.95     1.34     2.36      3.46
Existing Class 2 Road (5000 ADT)         1.56      1.21     2.64     0.97     1.36      2.38     3.50
Existing Class 2 Road (10000 ADT)         1.69     1.40     3.03     1.04     1.45      2.47     3.63
Existing Class 2 Road (20000 ADT)        2.51      2.64     5.68     1.51     2.11      3.21     4.76
Existing Road
* ar
6.00-
5.00                                                *                 Small Bus
4.00   S                    ;TBuS
3.00A
4  b                         I               x~~~~~~~~~~~~Medium
2.00                                                                  Truck
1.00   2                                                              Heavy
Truck
0.00                                                                 + Articulated
0         5000        10000       15000       20000       25000   Truck
Typical Road User Costs Composition
(Yuan per vehicle-kilometer)
Vehicle Operating Costs
Fuel and Lubrcants              0.21     0.20     0.56      0.22     0.58     0.92     0.84
Tires                           0.02     0.07      0.12     0.20     0.11     0.19      0.22
Maintenance Labor and Parts     0.38     0.09      0.14     0.14     0.19     0.30      0.48
Crew                            0.04     0.04      0.04     0.04     0.04     0.04      0.05
Depreciation and Interest       0.54     0.14      0.13     0.11     0.16     0.42      0.93
Passenger ad Cargo Time Costs            0.06      0.34     0.94     0.05     0.05     0.05      0.05
Total                                     1.24     0.88     1.92     0.75     1.14      1.92     2.57
NH4-TB03.XLS 515/99



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 123                                                Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Table 12.4 - Excel Economic Evaluaton Model Sample
Zheng Dian -Zhang Gong Expressway Section
UDaily I raliC (AWI)          Fi.nancoal                t EconoW   nat (MYu-an)                          SenaitysAnasis
o n       cste    ucton  canoe    a vr    Generd  Road   CSnfey  |          Cnsruct         Ur   (a) & (b)
and                  Yea  D4verId  Generated Pried  Project (M Yuan)   Cost  Co=ts   Taffc        rI T          Banafety          cants (a) Bneft (b)
SeandivityAnalysbs    1999                      7239   7239    2162  -151.4       0        0         0       0         0   -151       -1S2       -151      -182
2000                      7922   7922    324.4  -227.1       0       0          0       0         0   -227      -272        -227      -272
2001                      8674   8674    324.4  -227.1       0       0          0       0         0   -227      -272        -227      -272
2002                      9500   9500    216.2  .151.4       0       0          0       0         0   -151      -1S2        -151      -t12
2003    6963       1540   3547  10410        0.0    0.0   -.9      104         12      18         1   13t        130        103        103
2004    7419       1665   3843  11292        0.0    0.0  -3.9    116           13      20         1   147        146         116       116
2005    8020       1900   4165  12185               0.0  -3.9      130         15      23         1   165        164         130       130
2006    8671       1946   4514  13185               0.0  -3.9    145           16      27         1   185        1S4         147       147
2007    9376       2104   4893  14269               0.0  -3.9      162         18      30         1   208        207         165       165
2008   10139       2275   5305  15444               0.0  -39       182         20      34         1   234        232        185        185
2809   10965       2461   5752  16717               0.0  -3.9    203           23      39         2   262        261        208        208
2510  11860        2681   6238  18098               0.0  -3.9    227          25       44         2   293        292        233        233
2011   12830       2879   6765  19595               0.0  -3.9    253           28      49         2   328        326        280        28
2012   13800       3114   7338  21218               0.0  -3.9    282           32      54         2   385        364        290        290
2013   14516       3257   7687  22203               0.0   4.9      299         34      57         2   388        386        308        308
2014   15182       3407   8052  23234               0.0  -3.9      31          36      61         2   41         410        327        327
2015   15879       3563   8436  24315               0.0   3.9      337         38      64         2   437        435        347        347
2016   16609       3727  838  25447                 0.0  -3.9      358         40      67         2   463        461         368       368
2017   17374       3898   9259  26633               0.0 -162.2    379          43      70         2   332        330        231        231
201S   18174       4076   9701  27S75               0.0  -3.9    401           45      73         2   518        516        412        412
2019   19011       4266  10165  29177               5.5  -3.9    424           48      76         3   546        544        434        434
2020   19899       4463  10652  30541               0.0  -3.9    448           50      79         3   575        573        457        457
2021   2807        4669  11162  31969               0.0  -3.9    472           53     81          3   605        602        461        481
2022   21769       4685  11698  33467             378.4  -3.9    497           56      82         3  1013       1085        883        956
I otl M Tuan)             _                                    lw
Total ,er km (M Yuan)                                            29.8
Internal Rate of Reaim (%)                                                                                                21.5%     19.1%       18.5%      16.4%
Net Present Value at 12% Discount                                                                                           828       696         524       401
NH4-TB04.XLS 515199



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 124                                               Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Table 12.5 - Economic Evaluation Results
Sensi"sity Analysis
Economic Intemal Rates of Retum (EIRR)      Case 1   Case 2   Case 3        Case 4        Case S        Case 6    Case 7    Case 8   Case 9   Case 10
20% Incr. 20% Deer. Combined    20% Deer. 20% Decr.    20% Deer. 20% Deer. 20% Deer.    5 Year    6 Year
Base     Construd.     User  (1) & (2)     Value of  Accident    Generated   Diverted    Traffic Construe. Construn.
Pnoject Component                  Case         Costs  Benefits                  Time   Benefits         Traffic    Traffic  GDrwlh      Period    Perod
ZhengDian -Zhang Gong             21.5%         19.1%     18.5%    16.4%        21.0%      21.5%         21.3%      19.4%     19.3%      19.6%     17.8%
Zhang Gong - Gang Tang            18.6%         16.4%     15.9%    13.9%        18.3%      18.6%         18.4%      16.6%     16.6%      16.9%     15.4%
GangTang-TuCheng                  21.4%         19.0%    18.4%     16.3%        21.1%      21.4%         21.1%      19.3%     19.1%      194%      17.5%
Tu Cheng - Wujiang                28.0%         25.0%    24.3%     21.7%        27.2%      28.0%         27.6%      25.4%     25.7%      25.0%     21.9%
Wujiang-Wushi                     29.1%         26.0%    25.3%     22.6%        28.1%      29.1%         28.7%      26.6%     26.5%      26.1%     22.6%
Wushi - Changsha                  26.7%         23.8%    23.1%     20.6%        25.9%      26.7%         26.4%      24.3%     24.4%      24.1%     20.5%
Hubei Link Roads                  30.5%         27.4%    26.6%     23.8%        29.1%      30.5%         30.5%      27.5%     27.2%      26.8%     23.8%
Hubei Other Roads                 38.9%         35.5%    34.7%     31.7%        37.5%      36.9%         36.9%      36.6%     33.3%      35.3%     32.3%
Hunan Unk Roads                   35.7%         32.0%    31.2%     27.9%        34.4%      35.7%         34.8%      33.3%     33.2%      30.5%     26.0%
Hunan Other Roads                 19.5%         17.3%     16.7%    14.8%        18.7%      19.5%         19.5%      18.3%     16.1%      16.3%     16.4%
Entire Project                    26.2%         23.4%    22.8%     20.3%        25.5%      26.2%         2.59%      23.9%     23.7%      23.7%     20.9%
Switching Values Analysis                                                     Risk Analysis
Construdion      Net User                           Mean  Standarnd      Pruobabiity               Pernentie
Casts       Benefits                          EIRR  Deviation      that EIRR       10%       50%        80%
Muotiplier    Muafiplier                                    EIRR         <12%       Worst    Likely       Best
Factorto      Factorto                                                            Scenario  Scenanio  Srenario
Yeld 12%      Yeld 12%                                                                EIRR      EIRR       EIRR
Zheng Dian -Zhang Gong              2.29          0.44                           18.4%      2.4%          0.8%      14.9%     18.7%      21.4%
Zhang Gong - Gang Tang              1.82          0.55                           15.8%      2.2%          6.8%      12.7%     16.0%      18.5%
Gang Tang - Tu Cheng                2.27          0.44                           18.3%      2.4%          0.8%      14.6%     18.5%      21.2%
Tu Cheng - Wujiang                  3.46          0.29                          24.4%       2.8%          0.0%      20.5%     24.7%      27.8%
Wujiang - Wushi                     3.68          0.27                          25.5%       2.9%          0.0%      21.5%     25.7%      28.9%
Wushi - Changsha                    3.17          0.32                          23.4%       2.7%          0.0%      19.6%     23.6%      267%
Hubei Link Roads                    3.97          0.25                          26.8%       3.0%          0.0*      22.6%     26.9%      30.5%
Hubei Other Roads                   8.03          0.12                          33.9%       4.2%          0.0%      28.2%     34.2%      39.1%
Hunan Link Roads                    4.94          0.20                          31.9%       2.8%          0.0%      28.1%     32.1%      35.5%
Hunan Other Roads                   2.00          0.50                          16.4%       2.7%          5.3%      12.8%     16.7%      19.7%
Entire Project                      3.14          0.32                          22.8%       2.7%          0.0%      18.S%     23.0%      26.1%
1N4-ltgsuXLS s/S99



Project Appraisal Document                                    Page 125                                 Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Table 12.6 - Risk Analysis Methodology
Standard spreadsheet models analyses combine single 'poinf estimates of the model's input variables to predict a
single result. Estimates of the input variables are used because the actual values are not known with certainty. For
example:
Revenues = 100               Costs = 90                  ==>                 Profits = 10
In reality, however, things don't always turn out as planned because too conservative or optimistic estimates may have
been adopted. The combined errors in each input variable estimate could lead to real-life result that is different from
the estimated result. With risk analysis, one can explicitly include the uncertainty present in the estimates to generate
results that show all possible outcomes. For example, consider a simple case where there is unzertainty in both input
variables:
Revenues = 100 or 120                 Costs = 90 or 80
Possible Profits = >                  100-90 = 10         100-80 = 20
120-90 = 30        120-80 = 40
In a risk analysis, one includes the estmate of an input varable and some measure of the likelihood of occurrence for
that variable. The risk analysis will then use this information to analyze every possible outcome, executing hundreds of
what-if scenarios adopting in each case random inputs accordingly to the input probability distributon. For example,
consider this more complex case:
Revenues           Estmated most likely value = 100                (triangle distributon)
Estmated minimum possible value = 90
Estmated maximum possible value = 130
Costs              Estimated mean value = 90                       (normal distribution)
Estimated standard deviaton = 20
Results:  Scenario 1         Revenues = 105.9   Costs = 116.8      Profits = -10.9
Scenario 2         Revenues= 119.5   Costs = 87.2        Profits = 32.3
Scenario 300       Revenues = 103.4   Costs = 86.6       Profits = 16.8
In this case, the resuits are presented as probability distributions and statistics that give the decision-maker a complete
picture of all possible outcomes. For example, for the case above we have the following results:
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..          . a    Proit .... 6 .7 ..  ..    ....... .. ..   ....   .......   .....   ..............   .... .... .   .    . .  ......
Mean Profits = 16.7
Standard Deviation of Profits = 22.4
Probability that profts will be lower
than zero =24.1 percent
. S8 ~~LIIII II  IIIW
NH4-TB06.XLS 515/99



Project Appraisal Document                         Page 128                         Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Table 12.7 - Risk Analysis Results
Frequency distribution for
- Construction costs                I
- Existing traffic
o-1
2   P   ,     lz*-1 ,-z":p  'IF   teI-S '', NI  " l     l p
Multiplier Factor
Frequency distribution for
- Diverted traffic
- Generated traffic
- Traffic growth
f8  (Z !Z   o(   6' oN    ,bP, ,0       N0  o
Multiplier Factor
Frequency distribution for
entire project EIRR
o\o  o\o  AO o\e  0o\   &0\         0\  0\
Cummulative                120%
distribution for           100%
entire project EIRR         80%
60%
40%
020%/ 
0%
NH-BOlb' 5/ 5/9
NH4-TB07.XLS 515199



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 127                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
ANNEX 13: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND ACTION
PLAN SUMMARY
Fourth National Highway Project
A. Hunan Section
1.     Background. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for the Tucheng - Changsha section of the
Jingzhu Expressway (Hunan section of NH4), its interconnecting roads and the Pingjing link road was
prepared by the Highways Research Institute of MOC. The EIA, Environmental Action Plans (EAP) and the
EA Summary reports were prepared as per the policy and administrative requirements for environmental
assessment of development projects in China and the Bank's OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. The
development and review of these documents involved inputs from various Provincial units, the local
Environmental Protection Bureaus (EPB), research institutions and the affected groups along the proposed
highways. These documents were reviewed by the Bank and discussed with HPCD during the various project
preparation missions in 1997, 1998 and 1999. The final revised EIA, EAP and the EA Summary reports
covering the Expressway, its interconnecting roads and the Pingjing link road were submitted to the Bank in
February/March 1999 and were found to be satisfactory. Copies of the environmental reports are available in
the project files.
2.     Brief Project Description. The main civil works components of the expressway consist of the
construction of a four-lane, 120 km/h design speed, 183 km long expressway between Tucheng and Changsha,
11 interchanges, 29.9 km of interconnecting roads including 6.5 km of class 2 Pingjing link road. Other
components include institutional strengthening, training programs, highway safety and construction
supervision.
3.     Baseline Environmental Description. The proposed alignment lies in the north-eastem part of
Hunan, along the eastem bank of Xiangjiang River and Dongting Lake and the westem side of the Mugao
Mountains. The topography of the area is primarily hilly interspersed with river plains. It is high in the east and
low in the west and is punctuated with a distinctive range of hills with rounded tops and steep slopes with
gradients of 10-30 degrees. As a result, the area along the highway is subject to heavy surface soil ercsior
which presents a significant problem.
4.     The expressway runs through an economically developed region with intense human activity. Because
of past development, dense settlement and intense cultivation, there are no virgin forests and the original
vegetation has been replaced by paddy fields, mason pine trees, China fir trees, oil-tea trees and bamboo of
varying size. The expressway is expected to occupy about 17,789 mu of land of which about 6,917 mu (39%)
is paddy fields and about 40% is woodlands. The increase in cultivation, specially along the hill slopes, and the
decrease in forest cover, is contributing to heavy soil erosion along the alignment. Soil erosion along the
highway is expected to center primarily in the Weishui River and Laodaohe River valleys.
5.     There are no natural reserves along the proposed expressway alignment. The Yuelu Forest Park near
Changsha is 12 km from the proposed alignment and thus will not be impacted by the expressway. No rare or
endangered animal or plant species were found within the 500 m zone on either side of the proposed
expressway. Lead concentration in the soil ranged between 22.0 mg/kg and 45.6 mg/kg, significantly lower
than the 200 mg/kg value recommended by the Chinese Ministry of Agriculture as the acceptable criteria for
acid soil.



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 128                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
6.     The project area is rich in history and culture with many ancient sites such as the Mawangdui Han
Tomb, Quyuan Temple in Miluo, ancient battlefields of the Three Kingdoms and scenic landscapes which
attract numerous tourists. But these sites are located more than 5 km from the highway and are not expected to
be adversely impacted. During field investigations by the Hunan Archeological Institute of Cultural Relics, six
ancient cultural sites, three ancient kilns and 20 ancient tombs were identified along the alignment.
7.     Air quality monitoring data of the past years and air quality monitoring at 12 sites along the proposed
alignnment show that S02, NOx, TSP and CO concentrations all meet the Class II standards. Day time and
night time noise levels at 24 locations were also found to be below the noise standards. In Xinqiang River,
suspended solid and petroleum concentrations in the river water exceeded the GB 3838-88 Class II standards.
However, the Miluo River water quality was good except for suspended solids at two locations which
exceeded the Class II standards.
8.     Potential Environmental Impacts and Their Mitigation  Measures. The major potential
environmental impacts of the Tucheng-Changsha Expressway, the three connecting roads and the Pingjing link
road and their mitigation measures are given in the Environmental Action Plans (EAP). The EAP stipulates
how the environmental impacts identified in the EIA have been incorporated in the design, and will be
implemented in construction and operation phases of the project and what institutional arrangements have been
made to ensure effective implementation of the mitigation measures during the three phases. The key elements
of the EAP are summarized below.
9.     Design Phase. Five altemative alignments and a number of sub-alignments were considered in the
feasibility and project design phases of the Tucheng-Changsha Expressway. The final alignment was selected
to minimize land acquisition and resettlement costs; minimize potential environmental impacts of the project
on farmland, residences, schools, cultural relics, flood control systems and separation of communities; and to
avoid areas with poor geographical and geological conditions. The design includes 475 underpasses, 44
pedestrian over-crossings, and 56 grade separations to facilitate the crossing of the expressway by local
people, animals and vehicles. To reduce soil erosion, the central strip, exposed side slopes, and road side areas
will be planted with grass, shrubs, bushes, etc. Additional measures such as sub-grade drainage systems are
integrated in the project design and temporary and permanent drainage systems will be provided to minimize
soil erosion and alteration of hydrological regimes. Particular attention will be paid to balance cuts and fills, to
locate suitable borrow areas in waste lands, to minimize the use of arable lands and to minimize dust and noise
problems. Similar measures will be applied to the interconnecting and link roads.
10.    During the operating phase, noise levels at 23 schools and 29 villages along the Tucheng-Changsha
Expressway will exceed the current noise standards. In addition, some 8 to 25 isolated families will be
impacted by increase in noise along the Tucheng-Changsha Expressway. Along the link roads, noise levels fall
within the standards. To mitigate the short and medium term (years 2000-2010) noise problems, a combination
of measures such as resettlement, installaition of noise barriers, insulated windows, and other acoustic
reduction measures will be undertaken. In the long-term (year 2020), noise monitoring will be continued and
appropriate mitigation measures will be taken when the noise monitoring results exceed the standards.
Construction of schools and hospitals will not be allowed within 200 m of the Tucheng-Changsha Expressway
and construction of residences within 50 m of the expressway will be prohibited. Air quality forecasts indicate
that there will be an increase in the concentration of CO and NOx along the expressway and the associated
roads, but the increases are predicted to be within the standards. However, the air quality concentration along
the highway will be monitored regularly and any deterioration in the air quality due to vehicle exhaust gases
will be dealt with by improving vehicle emission controls and strengthening vehicle emissions inspection.
11.    For the 29 burial spots of underground historical relics located during the archeological field
investigation, an archeological salvage and protection plan was developed by the Hunan Archeological



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 129                      Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Institute of Cultural Relics and integrated in the NH4 project. All salvage and subsequent related activities will
be carried out before the start of construction at those locations.
12.    Additional design measures include provision for adequate drainage, wastewater treatment facilities at
the six service areas, eleven toll stations and three management centers, strengthening of crash barriers at
pollution sensitive sites, and provision for adequate bridge and culvert design to minimize flooding.
13.    Construction Phase. To minimize dust during construction, road surfaces, excavation areas, material
stockpiles, storage areas, and construction sites will be sprayed with water specially near towns and villages
and near sensitive locations. Asphalt and lime stone mixing plants will be equipped with dust collectors and
will be located at least 300 m from residential areas on the leeward side. Additional precautions will include
covering of haul trucks and material storage piles, control of exhaust gas, etc. Construction activities within
200 m from residences will be suspended between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., except under exceptional
circumstances when a prior written approval of the local government and the environmental protection bureau
will be required.
14.    Where ever possible, borrow areas will be restricted to non-forest and nonarable lands, and topsoil
will be saved and returned to the land. Spoil disposal sites will be carefully selected to minimize disruption to
the farmlands. Damage to irrigation systems will be minimized by construction of temporary channels and
conduits and measures will be taken to prevent direct discharge of polluted waters and silt from construction
activities into rivers and irrigation channels. Construction camp wastes and sewage will be collected and
treated and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. Trees and grass will be planted on side slopes,
and along the roadside, particularly on sections with high fills and deep cuts.
15.    During construction, effective safety and warning measures will be adopted to reduce accidents. This
will include minimization of traffic jams, provision of efficient lighting equipment and safety signs, restriction
on blasting time and implementation of stringent controls at quarries, development of a materials transport
plan, etc.
16.    Operational Phase. During the operation phase, emphasis will be placed on better vehicle
maintenance and management to promote safety and to minimize vehicle emissions. Low-speed, badly
maintained old vehicles will be prevented from using the expressway and a minimum 60 km/hr speed limit
will be enforced. Periodic campaigns will be undertaken to educate drivers about the unnecessary use of horns,
reduction in night time speed, safe transport of hazardous materials, etc. A small fire brigade with 2 fire
engines and 12 fire fighters will be established to deal with emergencies. To avoid future noise and air
pollution problems, construction of residential buildings and schools/hospitals will be prohibited within 100 m
of the Expressway.
17.    Environmental Monitoring. During the construction and operation of the Tucheng-Changsha
Expressway, and the connecting roads, environmental monitoring will be carried out to verify the actual
impacts of the highway on the environment, to identify unexpected environmental problems at an early stage,
and to adjust environmental protection measures as appropriate. The local environment protection department
will be responsible for all environmental air quality monitoring of the Expressway and its connecting roads
during the construction and operation phases. The supervising engineers will be responsible for noise
monitoring during the construction phase, while the environmental protection section of the Expressway
Company will be responsible for the operational phase.
18.    The major items to be monitored during the construction and operation phases will include air quality
(TSP, CO, NOx), noise and water quality (pH, SS, COD, BODS and Oil). The detailed monitoring plan is
presented in the EAP.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 130                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
19.   Institutional Arrangements. The Environmental Protection Office (EPO) of HPCD  will be
responsible for the overall environmental protection and management of the highways. The three staff in the
EPO will be assisted by four environmental staff in the Engineering Supervision Station who will be
responsible for the environmental aspects of the project during the construction phase. Environmental
monitoring during the construction and the operation phases will be carried out by the local EPBs through
contract. Proper environmental training will be provided to the en-'ironmental staff at all levels. The detailed
staffing and training plans are presented in the EAP.
20.    Public Participation. About 228 families participated in the public hearings held to discuss the
environmental impacts of the project. Land acquisition, proper compensation and resettlements topped
the issues. Although the public was generally in favor of the project, it also voiced the opinion that the
mitigation measures would not be properly implemented.
B. Hubei Section
1.    Background. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), Environmental Action Plan (EAP) and
Environmental Assessment (EA) Summary reports for the main Zhengdian to Tucheng section of the Jingzhu
Expressway (Hubei section of NH4), its interconnecting roads and the Dawu-Hongan and Tongshan-
Chongyang-Puqi link roads were prepared by the Xian Highway Transportation University. The reports were
prepared as per the policy and administrative requirements for enviromnental assessment of development
projects in China and the Bank's OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. The development and review of
these documents involved inputs from various Provincial units, the local Environmental Protection Bureaus,
research institutions and the affected groups along the proposed highway. These documents were reviewed by
the Bank and discussed with HPCD during the various project preparation missions in 1997, 1998 and 1999.
The final revised EIA, EAP and the EA Summary reports covering the Expressway, its interconnecting roads
and the Dawu-Hongan and Tongshan-Chongyang-Puqi link roads were submitted to the Bank in February
1999 and were found to be satisfactory. Copies of the environmental reports are available in the project files.
2.     Brief Project Description. The main civil works components of the expressway consist of the
construction of a four-lane, 120 km/h design speed, 110 km long expressway between Zhengdian - Tucheng,
6 interchanges, 28 km of interconnecting roads and 69 km of class 2, Dawu-Hongan and 95 km of class 2,
Tongshan-Chongyang-Puqi link roads. Other components include institutional strengthening, training
programs, highway safety and construction supervision.
3.     Baseline Environmental Descriptiion.. The proposed expressway lies on the south bank of the
middle reaches of the Yangtze River. The area traversed by the expressway is characterized by low, rolling
hills with the terrain rising generally from northwest to southeast. The northwest part is located on the
Jianghan Plain which lies below an altitude of about 50 m and is characterized by a large number of lakes. The
middle section passes through a region with an altitude of less than 200 m. The southeastem section passes
through an area of low mountainous topography. The Tongshan-Chongyang-Puqi link road, which lies in the
southem part of Hubei, passes through low hilly areas interspersed with rivers and streams. The Dawu-Hongan
road which lies in the northern part of the Hubei Province passes through mountainous terrain with low rolling
hills.
4.     The area along the main expressway and the Tongshan-Chongyang-Puqi link road is subject to heavy
precipitation ranging from 1100 mm to 1563 mm per year. The bulk of this precipitation (some 85 percent)
falls mainly from April to October and at times causes heavy flooding in the area. The mean annual
temperature of the area ranges between 15C and 16C. Soil erosion varies from about 1,000 t/lkm2.a in the north
to 4,300 tlkm2.a in the Puqi section. The rainfall along the Dawu-Hongan link road measures between 1021
mm and 1154 mm per year with mean annual temperature of 15.7C. Soil erosion varies from 4,259 t/km2.a in



Project Appraisal Document                Page 131                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Dawu county to 3,000 t/km2.a in Hongan county. Though not considered excessive, some areas along the
main expressway and the link roads will require special attention to combat excessive local soil erosion.
5.     The area along the proposed expressway is characterized by a fairly good transport network and
medium level of economic activities. The highway runs through a developing region with intense human
activity. Because of past activities and development, dense settlement and intense cultivation, there are no
virgin forests and the original vegetation has been replaced by paddy fields, masson pine trees, China fir trees,
oil-tea trees and bamboo of varying size. Tigers, leopards and other wild animals, which at one time roamed
the region, have become extinct and have been replaced by marmots and weasels. The proposed expressway is
expected to occupy about 10,487 mu of land of which about 7690 mu (-73%) is cultivated land.
6.     There are no natural reserves along the proposed expressway alignment. No rare or endangered
animal or plant species were found within the 500 m zone on either side of the proposed expressway. Lead
concentration in the soil ranged between 25.0 mg/kg and 29.4 mg/kg along the proposed alignment. At
Anshan, along NR107, lead levels varied from about 30.5 mg/kg at 5 m from the edge of the highway to 28.1
mg/kg at 15 m from the highway. The levels are significantly lower than the 250 mg/kg value recommended
by the Chinese Ministry of Agriculture as the acceptable criteria for acid soil (pH less than 6.5).
7.    Investigations and surveys conducted by the Hubei Cultural Relics Agency identified two cultural
relics sites, namely, the Lubiangao remains and the Tucheng (Earth City) remains along the alignment. The
nearest other cultural site is the ancient street in Xindian Town of Puqi City which is 4 km from the alignment.
The ancient battlefield at Chibi is about 30 km from the alignment. No cultural remains or relics were
identified along the Dawu-Hongan or Tongshan-Chongyang-Puqi link roads.
8.     Air quality monitoring data of the past years and air quality monitoring data at all sites along the
proposed alignment and the connecting roads show that S02, NOx, TSP and CO concentrations all meet the
Class II standards. Day time and night time noise levels at seven locations along the proposed alignment were
found to satisfy Class I noise standards. However, along NR107, noise levels could only satisfy Class IV noise
standards. One school along the Tongyang-Chongyang-Puqi highway and 2 schools along the Dawu-Hongan
highway exceed the noise standards by a wide margin. pH, Pb, and Oil concentration in the Caimuo, Ganhe,
Tingsi, Lushui and Panhe rivers satisfy GB 3838-88 Class I standards. On the other hand, COD(manganese) in
all five rivers, exceeds Class II and at times Class III standards.
9.     Potential Environmental Impacts and Their Mitigation Measures. The major potential
enviromnental impacts of the Zhengdian - Tucheng Expressway, and the Tongyang-Chongyang-Puqi and the
Dawu-Hongan link roads and their mitigation measures are given in the Environmental Action Plans (EAP).
The EAP stipulate how the environmental impacts identified in the EIA have been incorporated in the design,
and will be implemented in construction and operation phases of the project and what institutional
arrangements have been made to ensure effective implementation of the mitigation measures during the three
phases. The key elements of the EAP are summarized below.
10.    Design Phase. Four altemative alignments (Xianning I, II, III and Jiayu Schemes) and a number of
sub-alignments were considered in the feasibility and project design phases of the Zhengdian - Tucheng
Expressway. Initially, Xianning II alignment was proposed, but after further studies and taking into account
environmental and resettlement factors, Xianning I scheme was selected as the preferred alignment. The final
alignment (Xianning I) was selected to minimize land acquisition and resettlement costs; minimize potential
environmental impacts of the project on farmland, residences, schools, cultural relics, flood control systems
and separation of communities; and to avoid areas with poor geographical and geological conditions. The
design includes 136 overpasses, 54 underpasses and 15 crossings to facilitate the crossing of the expressway
by local people, animals and vehicles. To reduce soil erosion, the central strip, exposed side slopes, and road
side areas will be planted with grass, shrubs, bushes, etc. Additional measures such as subgrade drainage



Project Appraisal Document                    Page 132                      Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
systems are integrated in the project design and temporary and permanent drainage systems will be provided to
minimize soil erosion and alteration of hydrological regimes. Particular attention will be paid to balance cuts
and fills, to locate suitable borrow areas in waste lands, to minimize the use of arable lands and to minimize
dust and noise problems. Similar measures will be applied to the interconnecting and link roads.
11.    Altogether, 146 environmentally noise sensitive sites were identified along the expressway and the
connecting roads, which would require a measure of mitigation to combat excessive noise during the operation
phase. The measures would include resettlement, construction of noise barriers or walls, installation of
insulated windows, afforestation, etc. Eleven sites along the Tongyang-Chongyang-Puqi highway and sixteen
locations along the Dawu-Hongan highway will also be protected. In the long-term (between the years 2012
and 2022), noise monitoring will be continued and appropriate mitigation measures will be taken when the
noise monitoring results exceed the standards. Construction of schools and hospitals will not be permitted
within 200 m of the Expressway and construction of residences within 120 m of the expressway will be
prohibited. Air quality forecasts indicate that there will be an increase in the concentration of CO and NOx
along the expressway and the associated roads, but the increases are predicted to be within the standards.
However, the air quality concentration along the highway will be monitored regularly and any deterioration in
the air quality due to vehicle exhaust gases will be dealt with by improving vehicle emission controls and
strengthening vehicle emissions inspection.
12.    For the two burial spots of underground historical relics located during the archeological field
investigation, an archeological salvage and protection plan developed by the Hubei Archeological Institute of
Cultural Relics will be integrated in the NH4 project. All salvage and subsequent related activities will be
carried out before the start of construction at the two locations.
13.    Additional design measures include provision for adequate drainage, wastewater treatment facilities at
the four service and rest areas, six toll stations and two management/maintenance centers, strengthening of
crash barriers at pollution sensitive sites, and provision for adequate bridge and culvert design (at least 1 :100
year flood) to minimize flooding.
14.    Construction Phase. To minimize dust during the construction, road surfaces, excavation areas,
material stockpiles, storage areas, construction sites, etc. will be sprayed with water specially near towns and
villages and near sensitive locations. Asphalt and lime stone mixing plants will be equipped with dust
collectors and will be located at least 300 m downwind from residential areas. Additional precautions will
include the covering of haul trucks and material storage piles, control of exhaust gas, etc. Construction
activities within 150 m from residences will be suspended between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., except under
exceptional circumstances when a prior written approval of the local government and the environmental
protection bureau will be required.
15.    Where ever possible, borrow areas will be restricted to nonforest and nonarable lands, and topsoil will
be saved and returned to the land. Spoil disposal sites will be carefully selected to minimize disruption to the
farmlands. Damage to irrigation systems will be minimized by construction of temporary channels and
conduits and measures will be taken to prevent direct discharge of polluted waters and silt from construction
activities into rivers and irrigation channels. Construction camp wastes and sewage will be collected and
treated and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. Trees and grass will be planted on side slopes,
and along the roadside, particularly on sections with high fills and deep cuts.
16.    During construction, effective safety and warning measures will be adopted to reduce accidents. This
will include minimization of traffic jams, provision of efficient lighting equipment and safety signs, restriction
on blasting time and implementation of stringent controls at quarries, development of a materials transport
plan, etc. The impact of construction traffic on the residents, schools, hospitals, etc. along NRl07 and haul
roads will also be mitigated by using temporary noise barriers, stockpiling materials, water sprayers, etc.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 133                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
17.    Operational Phase. During the operation phase, emphasis will be placed on better vehicle
maintenance and management to promote safety and to minimize vehicle emissions. Low-speed, badly
maintained old vehicles will be prevented from using the expressway and a minimum 60 km/hr speed limit
will be enforced. Periodic campaigns will be undertaken to educate drivers about the unnecessary use of horns,
reduction in night time speed, safe transport of hazardous materials, etc. A small force to handle spills,
accidents, etc. will be established to deal with emergencies. To avoid future noise and air pollution problems,
construction of residential buildings and schools/hospitals will be prohibited within 120 and 200 m
respectively of the Expressway.
18.    Environmental Monitoring. During the construction and operation of the Zhengdian - Tucheng
Expressway and the link roads, environmental monitoring will be carried out to verify the actual impacts of the
highway on the environment, to identify unexpected environmental problems at early stage and to adjust
environmental protection measures as appropriate. The monitoring, during construction and operation, will be
carried out by the Hubei Provincial Highway Environmental Monitoring Unit. The Unit has already been set
up and trained as part of the NH3 project, and will use the equipment already procured as part of the NH 3
project.
19. The major items to be monitored during the construction and operation phases will include air quality
(TSP, CO, NOx), noise and water quality (pH, SS, COD, and Oil). The detailed monitoring plan is presented in
the EAP.
20.   Institutional Arrangements. The EPO of HPCD will be responsible for the overall environmental
protection and management of the highways. It will be assisted by the staff from the World Bank Project
Office of HPCD, Hubei High Class Highway Administration Bureau, Hubei Highway Bureau, and various
staff from the Highway Management Divisions of the Counties. A total of 38 environmental staff will be
trained in construction supervision, environmental management and emergency response management. Four of
the staff members will receive four weeks of overseas training. The detailed staffing and training plan is
presented in the EAP.
21.    Public Participation. 250 people from 38 villages participated in the public hearings held to discuss
the environmental impacts of the project. A total of 76 questionnaires were collected and analyzed. Land
acquisition, fair compensation and resettlement issues topped the list of concerns expressed by the participants.
Although the public was generally in favor of the project, participants voiced concerns about partitioning of
communities, motor vehicle pollution, noise from traffic, safety, etc. Teachers voiced concern about excessive
noise and safety concerning their students. These concerns were noted and measures to allay the fear have
been included in the project. The participants will be informed of the measures during the next round of public
consultation.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 134                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
ANNEX 14: RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN SUMMARY
Fourth National Highway Project
A. HUBEI
1. Land acquisition will take place for all the components of the project including 4 linking roads. PAPs
will be affected mainly through the loss of agricultural land. All of the resettlement of agricultural
population will be land based. There will be no surplus laborers.
2. The PRO with the collaboration of the IMO, Design Institute and local ROs has conducted census and
socioeconomic surveys of the PAPs and their assets on all components of the project. A supplementary
survey for the revisions in alignment was carried out during March of 1998. Exact impact of the project
has been identified and resettlement entitlement policies for each category have been established, a
summary of which is presented below:
Categories of Impact    Unit of Entitlement           Entitlement Policy
Agricultural land       PAPs; affected production teams  Compensation for land;
and villages                 resettlement subsidy;
redistribution of agricultural
land; technical input to improve
agricultural productivity;
provision of alternative jobs for
surplus labor due to limited
agricultural land.
Affected houses          PAPs                         Cash compensation at
replacement cost; transfer
allowance; transition allowance.
Affected enterprises    Affected Units                Compensation equivalent to
replacement cost; compensation
for loss of income during move
and reconstruction.
Other affected assets    Owners                       Compensation at replacement
cost.
Affected infrastructure  Affected company/community    Replacement of infrastructure
up to the same standard or
replacement cost.
Affected jobs            PAPs                         Replacement of employment on
the same terms.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 135                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
3. Extensive work was carried out at various stages of the project to keep the alignment at a distance from
settlements and to reduce house relocation. At the preliminary design stage, impact of the project was
reduced by 1,120 m2 (or 8 households). During the consideration of alternative designs the PRO,
Environment Team and local administrations collaborated with the Design Institute.
4. Surveys show that the project would need to acquire 11,203.20mu of land in the expressway section
and 2,107.8 mu in the two other highway sections (other roads) in addition to temporary acquisition of
841.4 mu in the expressway and 623 mu in the two other highway sections. Land acquisition will directly
impact 1,865 households and 8,961 persons in the expressway section (484 households and 2,303 persons
in the two other highway sections). Among the total impact, 1,942 persons in 395 households will be
affected through relocation of private residential houses in the expressway section (829 persons in 163
households for the two other highway sections).
5. Compensation for affected assets will be paid at their replacement cost. Compensation for affected
private structures and crops will be paid to the affected households. Compensation for affected land and
resettlement subsidy to finance economic rehabilitation of the affected households will be paid to Village
Administrations to be used according to Village Investmnent Plans (VIPs) to be prepared and reviewed
before the disbursement of compensation funds. To ensure that the benefits accrue to the PAPs, CIROs
and the PRO will monitor the use of land compensation funds based on the VIPs. Affected enterprises
will be compensated for the loss of their structures, provided with altemative land and also compensated
for losses incurred during the transition period. Community infrastructure will be fully replaced by the
project, or in certain cases, cash compensation will be paid to the agencies responsible for the affected
infrastructure.
6. Per capita land holdings along the alignment are above the average for the region. The project will
acquire about 5 % of the arable land of villages. The PAPs will continue their agricultural activities after
readjustment of land. Land compensation funds will be adequate to rehabilitate affected incomes.
7. The RAP was prepared with the collaboration of the PRO, the Design Institute, the IMO and local
ROs. Special Resettlement Offices (CIROs) were established for the project at the City level, which will
carry out implementation of the RAP. Leading Groups for resettlement have been established at the
Province and City levels, with representatives including the Vice Governor and members from the
Department of Communications, the Bureau of Land Administration, Construction and Planning
Department, Finance Departnent and other concerned agencies.
8. Costs associated with implementation of the RAPs will be a part of the project costs. The total cost of
implementing the resettlement program is estimated to be RMB 199.11 million for the expressway
section and 38.45 million for the two other highway sections. The figure includes price and physical
contingencies.
9. The RAP includes detailed implementation schedule that will be completed before the commencement
of civil works. Implementation of the resettlement program will be a participatory exercise, along the
same lines as the process adopted for preparation of the RAPs. To encourage participation and ensure
participatory monitoring, each affected household will be provided with a Resettlement Information
Booklet (RIB), summarizing key features of the project and the resettlement program. Detailed
entitlements of each household will also be included in this booklet. Implementation of the resettlement
program will be aided by a grievance redress procedure based on local systems for this purpose.
However, if the PAPs remain dissatisfied after exhausting the channels of grievance redress outlined in
the RAP, recourse to civil courts is available as a last resort.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 136                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
10. Internal and independent monitoring of the resettlement program will be carried out. Internal
monitoring will focus on issues relating to compliance with the quantitative targets mentioned in the
RAP, independent monitoring will evaluate both the qualitative impacts of the resettlement program and
investigate the impact on the standards of living of the PAPs. Indicators for both internal and independent
monitoring have been included in the RAP. The Population Studies Institute of Wuhan University has
been appointed by the HPCD as the IMO. The PRO is required to submit periodic reports on internal and
independent monitoring to the Bank by January 31 and July 31 of each year until the process of
resettlement implementation is satisfactorily completed. Thereafter, the IMO will continue to report on
the standards of living of the PAPs.
B. HUNAN
1. Land acquisition will take place for all the components of the project including the linking road. PAPs
will be affected mainly through the loss of agricultural land. Most of the resettlement of agricultural
population will be land based. Only 139 surplus laborers will be transferred to enterprise employment.
2. The PRO with the collaboration of the IMO, Design Institute and local ROs has conducted census and
socioeconomic surveys of the PAPs and their assets on all components of the project. A supplementary
survey for the revisions in alignment was carried out during June and July of 1998. Exact impact of the
project has been identified and resettlement entitlement policies for each category have been established,
a summary of which is presented below:
Categories of Impact     Unit of Entitlement           Entitlement Policy
Agricultural land        PAPs; affecte,d production teams  Compensation for land;
and villages                  resettlement subsidy;
redistribution of agricultural
land; technical input to improve
agricultural productivity;
provision of alternative jobs for
surplus labor due to limited
agricultural land.
Affected houses          PAPs                           Cash compensation at
replacement cost; transfer
allowance; transition allowance.
Affected enterprises     Affected Units                 Compensation equivalent to
replacement cost; compensation
for loss of income during move
and reconstruction.
Other affected assets    Owners                        Compensation at replacement
cost.
Affected infrastructure  Affected company/community    Replacement of infrastructure
up to the same standard or
replacement cost.
Affected jobs            PAPs                           Replacement of employment on
the same terms.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 137                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
3. Extensive work was carried out at various stages of the project to keep the alignment at a distance from
settlements and to reduce house relocation. Consequently, impact of the project was reduced by 12,233
m2 (or 59 structures) during the final design stage. Due to the scattered nature of settlements along the
alignment of the project in northeastern Hunan, impact through relocation is more extensive than it is in
Hubei province where clustered settlement patterns allow for easier realignments. During the
consideration of alternative designs the PRO, Environment Team and local administrations collaborated
with the Design Institute.
4. Surveys show that the project would need to acquire 17,988.13 mu (16,282.16 mu in the main
component) of land in addition to temporary acquisition of 3,668.14 mu (3,290.4 mu in the main
component). Land acquisition would directly impact 4040 households (15,874 persons). Among the total
impact, 5,691 persons in 1,363 households (5,022 persons in 1,205 households in the main component)
will be affected through relocation of private residential houses.
5. Compensation for affected assets will be paid at their replacement cost. Compensation for affected
private structures and crops will be paid to the affected households. Compensation for affected land and
resettlement subsidy to finance economic rehabilitation of the affected households will be paid to Village
Administrations to be used according to Village Investment Plans (VIPs) and are being prepared and
reviewed before the disbursement of compensation funds. To ensure that the benefits accrue to the PAPs,
COROs and the PRO will monitor the use of land compensation funds based on the VIPs. Affected
enterprises will be compensated for the loss of their structures, provided with alternative land and also
compensated for losses incurred during the transition period. Community infrastructure will be fully
replaced by the project, or in certain cases, cash compensation will be paid to the agencies responsible for
the affected infrastructure.
6. Per capita land holdings along the alignment are above (or equal to) average for the region. The project
will acquire about 5 % of the arable land of villages in the main component. Most of the PAPs (except for
the 139 surplus laborers in the main component) will continue their agricultural activities after
readjustment of land. Land compensation funds will be adequate to rehabilitate the incomes of PAPs with
ease.
7. In areas with limited land resources, when adequate size of land cannot be assigned to agricultural
laborers through readjustment, the affected community will be offered jobs in village enterprises.
Volunteering PAPs may then choose to change their employment from agriculture to enterprise.
Investment of compensation funds that resettlement enterprises receive (for the employment of surplus
labor) will be monitored together with the VIPs to ensure that living standards of the surplus laborers will
be enhanced or maintained or at the pre-project levels.
8. The RAP was prepared with the collaboration of the PRO, the Design Institute, the IMO and local
ROs. Special Resettlement Offices established for the project at the County level will carry out
implementation of the RAP. Leading Groups for resettlement have been established at the Province, City
and County levels, with representatives from the Departnent of Communications, the Bureau of Land
Administration and other concerned agencies.
9. Cost associated with implementation of the RAPs will be a part of the project costs. The total cost of
implementing the resettlement program is estimated to be RMB 335.84 million (304.00 million for the
main component) including price and physical contingencies.
10. The RAP includes detailed implementation schedule that will be completed before the
commencement of civil works. Implementation of the resettlement program will be a participatory



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 138                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
exercise, along the same lines as the process adopted for preparation of the RAPs. To encourage
participation and ensure participatory monitoring, each affected household has been provided with a
Resettlement Information Booklet (RIB), summarizing key features of the project and the resettlement
program. Detailed entitlements of each household is included in this booklet. Implementation of the
resettlement program will be aided by a grievance redress procedure within the project structure.
However, if the PAPs remain dissatisfied after exhausting the channels of grievance redress outlined in
the RAP, recourse to civil courts is available as a last resort.
11. Internal and independent monitoring of the resettlement program will be carried out. Internal
monitoring will focus on issues relating to compliance with the quantitative targets mentioned in the
RAP, independent monitoring will evaluate both the qualitative impacts of the resettlement program and
investigate the impact on the standards of living of the PAPs. Indicators for both internal and independent
monitoring have been included in the RAP. The Hunan Academy of Social Sciences has been appointed
by the HPCD as the IMO. The PRO is required to submit periodic reports on internal and independent
monitoring to the Bank by January 31 and July 31 of each year until resettlement implementation is
satisfactorily completed. Thereafter, the IMO will continue to report on the standards of living of the
PAPs.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 139                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
ANNEX 15: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Fourth National Highway Project
A. Hunan Province
Financial Management System
Preamble
The objective of the proposed Project is to increase economic activity along the high-priority corridor between
Wuhan and Changsha through relieving congestion, facilitating mobility and helping increase the efficiency
and traffic safety in northem Hunan and southem Hubei province. Total estimated Project cost is US$952
million, including an IBRD loan of US$350 million. The main components of the Project are the construction
of expressways and interconnecting roads, and institutional strengthening and capacity building.
I.     Background
This report is the result of a financial review and analysis of the Fourth National Highway Project - Hunan
Province (the "Project") as conducted by Tony Shen, Financial Management Specialist, EACCF, to determine
whether the Project has in place an adequate financial management system as required by Bank OP/BP 10.02.
The review was performed in accordance with the Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting
System for World Bank projects and the Review of Financial Management System as stipulated in Annex II of
LACI Handbook, and consequently included such review procedures as were considered necessary and
appropriate to the Project's circumstances, including site visit, discussion and observation.
As a result, the task team has discussed and reviewed with Hunan Provincial Finance Bureau (HPFB)and the
project management office plans, procedures and guidelines for establishing a sound financial management
system, including staff/training, accounting, intemal controls, reporting requirements, auditing and budgeting.
II.    Organization of project financial management
1 . Structure of project financial management
The Hunan Provincial Expressway Construction and Development Corporation (HPECDC) will assume
overall responsibility of implementing and monitoring the Project while Lin-Chang Expressway
Construction and Development Corporation (LECDC or project management office-PMO), a separate
entity formed solely for the construction of the Project and a subsidiary of HPECDC, will be responsible
for direct implementation and fund management of the Project.
2. Loan disbursement arrangements
The Project will be disbursing based on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not be using
PMR-based disbursement, in accordance with the agreement between the Bank and MOF.
Special account will be managed by and maintained at Hunan Provincial Finance Bureau (HPFB). Fund
disbursement will flow from the Bank to HPFB, PMO and contractors/suppliers through loan and on-lend
arrangement. HPECDC is involved in the construction of Second National Highway Project (NH2) and
some of the financial/accounting personnel that were involved in NH2 will be seconded to be in charge of
the Project.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 140                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
As such, as far as withdrawal application is concerned, PMO is familiar with the Bank's procedures and
accordingly policies and procedures in respect of preparation of withdrawal applications will be set up for
the Project to ensure efficient and accurate fund management and timely withdrawal applications. PMO
will be responsible for verifying the accuracy and validity of expenses submitted and progresses reported.
HPECDC and HPFB will conduct additional check on withdrawal applications before submitting by
HPFB to the Bank for reimbursements.
HPFB has to date managed 22 Bank financed projects for the last 7 years and has accumulated extensive
experience in dealing with Bank's operation procedures. In addition, the Bank will provide as and when
needed training and assistance in preparation of withdrawal application.
III.   Staff and training
The financial management capacity of the Project will be strengthened through training, provision of
equipment and recruitment of qualified staff. As most of the team members of PMO are new to the Bank's
operations, well-defined and focused training program should be provided for the Project to ensure personnel
of quality commensurate with job responsibilities. In particular, training and assistance from HPFB should be
scheduled for all financiallaccounting staff. The Bank plans to re-address some of the major areas of project
financial management during the Project's launch workshop.
We have been advised that Mr Tang Bo of HPECDC will be one of the accounting staff of the Project and Ms
Chen Yu-Jie, chief accountant of NH2 from inception up to November 1997, has been providing accounting
assistance and training to Mr Tang and the Project to ensure good preparation work and smooth transition. In
fact, Mr Tang used to work as an assistant accountant to Ms Chen for the period she was in charge of NH2 and
was heavily involved in detailed accounting work for NH2. Mr Tang holds a university degree in accounting
and has had more than four years of experience as an accountant. In addition, Mr Tang just completed a one-
month accounting study tour in France and is believed to be competent for the accountant position of the
Project.
IV.   Accounting
The Project will use "Accounting Standards Applicable to State-operated Construction Projects (the
"Standards") as the basis for bookkeeping and preparation of financial statements and management reports.
The Standards were issued in 1986 by MOF and further revised in 1998 and were geared towards
infrastructure oriented projects. Chart of account and detailed accounting instructions have been provided in
the Standards and would therefore affect project accounting and reporting requirements.
Accrual accounting and double entry basis will be adopted for the Project. Ledgers, journal vouchers and
original supporting documents will be maintained at PMO.
V.    Internal controls
The success of a project depends to a large degree on a sound internal control system (both administrative and
accounting). The PMO indicated that the financial/accounting procedures and guidelines designed for NH2
incorporated all the major controls of the project, and such procedures and guidelines will be further tailored to
the specifics of the Project and distributed before Project commencement to all staff for reference. Per review
of procedures and guidelines designed for NH2, the task team noted that sufficient controls have been built
into the system for major areas of operations and have the following features:
ea system of authorization, verification, reconciliation, record procedures and project reporting adequate to
provide reasonable control over project costs, security of assets, schedules and technical performance



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 141                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
*  delegation and segregation of duties
*  timely and accurate financial reporting
Based on above analysis, adequate controls will be in place for the Project before commencement.
VI.    Reporting requirements
The format and content of the following reports have been discussed with the proposed PMO. Reports are
required to be submitted on semi-annual basis to the Bank within 3 months after the end of each reporting
period (i.e. October I and April 1):
Financial statements (semi-annual basis)
*  Balance sheet
*  Statement of sources and uses of fund by project activity
*  Statement of implementation of loan agreement
*  Statement special account
The above project financial statements represent the standard project financial reporting package agreed to
between the Bank and MOF and will apply to all FY 99 projects.
Monitoring reports (semi-annual basis)
*  Statement of project progress
Procurement reports (semi-annual basis)
*  Contract expenditure reports - goods & works, consultants
*  Procurement management reports - goods & works, consultants
VII.   Auditing
The Bank requires the Project to have its financial statements audited in accordance with Government
Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China (1997 edition). Audit arrangement for the Project will
be similar to other Bank financed projects in PRC and will be audited by Hunan Provincial Audit Bureau.
Audited annual project financial statements will be due to the Bank within 6 months after the end of each
reporting year.
VIII. Budgeting
Annual budget will be prepared by PMO, based on input from various construction section units of the Project.
The annual budget will then further be reviewed and approved by HPECDC and HPFB. The budget will be
used as a basis for cost control and performance evaluation based on periodic analysis of actual versus budget.
IX.    Conclusion
Based on the above analysis, the task team has determined that the Project will satisfy the Bank's minimum
financial management requirement as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02. In the team's opinion, the Project will have
in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance,
accurate and timely information on the status of the Project in the reporting format agreed with the proposed
PMO and as required by the Bank.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 142                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
B. Hubei Province
Financial Management System
Preamble
The objective of the proposed Project is to increase economic activity along the high-priority corridor between
Wuhan and Changsha through relieving congestion, facilitating mobility and helping increase the efficiency
and traffic safety in northern Hunan and southern Hubei province. Total estimated Project cost is US952
million, including an IBRD loan of US$350 million. The main components of the Project are the construction
of expressway and interconnecting roads, and institutional strengthening and capacity building.
I.     Background
This report is the result of a financial management review and analysis of the Fourth National Highway Project
- Hubei Province (the "Project") as conducted by Tony Shen, Financial Management Specialist, EACCF, to
determine whether the Project has in place an adequate financial management system as required by Bank
OP/BP 10.02.
The review was performed in accordance with the Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting
System for World Bank Projects and the Review of Financial Management System as stipulated in Annex II of
LACI Handbooks, and consequently included such review procedures as were considered necessary and
appropriate to the Project's circumstances, including site visit, discussion and observation.
As a result, the task team has discussed and reviewed with Hubei Provincial Finance Bureau (HPFB) and the
project management office plans, procedures and guidelines for establishing a sound financial management
system, including staff/training, accounting, internal controls, reporting requirements, auditing and budgeting.
II.    Organization of project financial management
1. Structure of project management
The Hubei Province Communications Department (HPCD) will assume overall responsibility of
implementing and monitoring the Project while a project management office (PMO) formed under HPCD
will be responsible for direct project implementation and fund management.
2. Loan disbursement arrangements
The Project will be disbursing based on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not be using
PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement between the Bank and MOF.
Special Account will be managed by and maintained at HPFB. Fund disbursement will flow from the
Bank to HPFB, PMO and contractors/suppliers through loan and on-lend arrangement.
It was noted that personnel in charge of the Project from the PMO and HPFB were also involved in the
Third National Highway Project (NH3). As such, PMO is familiar with Bank's operations procedures as
far as disbursement work is concerned. Per review of Project Financial Management Manual (discussed in
detail in section III), the task team noted that detailed policies and procedures have been provided for the
Project to ensure efficient and accurate fund management and timely withdrawal application. PMO will be
in charge of verifying the accuracy and validity of expenses submitted and progress reported. HPFB will
conduct additional check on withdrawal applications before submitting to the Bank for disbursement.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 143                    Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
HPFB to date has managed 15 Bank financed projects in Hubei province and thus has accumulated
extensive experience in project implementation and special account management. In addition, the Bank
will provide as and when needed training and assistance in preparation of withdrawal applications.
III.   Staff and training
The financial management capacity of the Project will be strengthened through training, provision of
equipment and recruitment of qualified staff. We have been advised that PMO has been staffed with 6
accountants with college/university accounting degree and more than 3 years of accounting work.
Furthermore, some of the financial/accounting staff had just completed an overseas study tour in France and
are confident about the work. More training programs have been designed and integrated into the Project
Implementation Plan.
The chief accountant currently appointed for the Project, though is new to the Bank financed project, has
assumed similar position for various highway projects completed in the province with domestic funding and is
believed to have the experience and credentials in the financial and accounting management. We, however,
have stressed to the PMO that the chief accountant should be able to maintain the books of account, exercise
adequate internal controls, safeguard Project's assets, monitor progress of the Project and produce financial
and monitoring reports required by the Bank and Ministry of Finance (MOF) on a timely basis.
To further facilitate the Project, well-defined role, job description and operation procedures should be
documented in a Project Financial Management Manual (the "Manual") and made easily accessible to all staff
involved to guide in the accounting practices and financial information preparation and reporting.
The task team has received a draft Manual modeled after the one prepared for NH3. Per review of the draft
Manual, the task team noted that procedures and guidelines have been provided in the draft Manual for the
following aspects of the Project:
'project financial management
efund management (both Bank and counterpart)
'construction management
'construction material/equipment purchasing
easset management
*cost and expense controls
*loan repayment management
*financial reporting and monitoring
*withdrawal application procedures
The task team was further advised that final version of the Manual will be issued before commencement and
serve as a yardstick in project performance evaluation.
IV.   Financial and accounting system
The Project will use "Accounting Standards Applicable to State-operated Construction Projects (the
'Standards')" as the basis for bookkeeping and preparation of financial statements and management reports.
The Standards were issued in 1986 by MOF and further revised in 1998 and are geared towards infrastructure
oriented projects. The Standards also dictate chart of account and related account instructions that would
therefore affect project accounting and reporting requirements.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 144                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Accrual accounting and double entry bookkeeping basis will be adopted for the Project. Ledgers, journal
vouchers and original supporting documents will be maintained at PMO.
V.    Internal controls
A sound internal control system (both administrative and accounting) is the key to the success of the Project.
Per review of the draft Manual, the task team noted that adequate controls have been built into the system for
major areas of operations of the Project and have the following features:
*a system of authorization, verification, reconciliation, record procedures and project reporting adequate to
provide reasonable control over project costs, security of assets, schedules and technical performance
*delegation and segregation of duties
*timely and accurate financial reporting
VL    Reporting requirements
The format and content of the following reports of the Project have been discussed with the proposed PMO.
Reports are required to be submitted on semi-annual basis to the Bank within 3 months after the end of each
reporting period (i.e. October I and April 1):
Financial statements (semi-annual basis)
eBalance sheet
*Statement of sources and uses of fund by project activity
eStatement of implementation of loan agreement
=Statement of special account
The above project financial statements represent the standard project financial reporting package recently
agreed to between the Bank and MOF and will apply to all FY 99 projects.
Monitoring reports (semi-annual basis)
eStatement of project progress
Procurement reports (semi-annual basis)
*Contract expenditure report - goods & works, consultants
*Procurement management reports - ICB & NCB
VII.   Auditing requirements
The Bank requires the Project to have its annual financial statements audited in accordance with Government
Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China (1997 edition). Audit arrangement for the Project will
be in line with other Bank financed projects in PRC and will be audited by Hubei Provincial Audit Bureau.
Audit report on annual project financial statements will be due to the Bank within 6 months after the end of
each reporting year.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 145                     Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
VIII. Budgeting
Annual budget will be prepared by the PMO and further reviewed and approved by HPCD and IHPFB. The
budget will be used as a basis for cost control and performance monitoring based on periodic analysis of actual
versus budget. Procedures used in the budgeting process have been documented in the draft Manual and used
as a guide for all parties involved.
IX.    Conclusion
Based on the above analysis, the task team has determined that the Project will satisfy the Bank's minimum
financial management requirements as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02. In the team's opinion, the Project will have
in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance,
accurate and timely information on the status of the Project in the reporting format agreed with the proposed
PMO and as required by Bank.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 146                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
ANNEX 16: PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND
SCHEDULE
Fourth National Highway Project
Planned (At final PCD stage)        Actual
A. Project Budget (US$'000)                         405.0                      314.7
B. Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (months)            38                        42
First Bank mission (identification)                 1/1996                     1/1996
Appraisal mission departure                         6/1998                    3/1999
Negotiations                                        10/1998                   4/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                       6/1999                    10/1999
Prepared by: Hunan and Hubei Provincial Communication Departments
Preparation assistance: PHRD (for model bidding documents for private toll highway financing), Italian Trust
Fund (for review of highway designs and bid documents in Hunan), Spanish Trust Fund (for review of highway
designs and bid documents in Hubei)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                          Specialty
Alfred Nickesen                               Task Team Leader
Alla Weinstein                                   Operations
Anil Somani                                    Environment
Tosun Aricanli                                  Resettlement
Hoi-Chan Nguyen! Clifford Garstang                          Legal
Jean-Marie Braun                                 Engineering
Dick Jonsson                          Institutional Strengthening/Training
Mitchel Stanfield                            Private Infrastructure
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao                          Transport Economist
R. I. Gopalkrishnan                               Procurement
Yi-Ling Liu/Virgil Villapando                         Disbursement
Tony Shen                                 Financial Management
Yang Dawei                                Procurement Assessment
Liu E.                                   Highway Specialist
Maria Luisa Juico                                Task Assistant
Peer Reviewers:
Antti Talvitie                                   OEDST
Jose Luis Irigoyen                                  LCSFP
Stein Lundebye                                     SASIN



Project Appraisal Document              Page 147                  Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
ANNEX 17: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Fourth National Highway Project
A. Project Implementation Plans
1. Project Implementation Plan-Hunan section, April, 1999
2. Hubei Project Implementation Plan, March 1999
B. Feasibility Studies
Hubei
Proposed Alignment Feasibility Study Report, March 1998
-Volume I and II
-Attachment I (Drawings and Tables)
-Attachment II (Cost Estimates)
Hunan
Feasibility Study Report, February 1998
-Volume I and II
-Attachment I (Drawings and Tables)
-Attachment II (Cost Estimates)
C. Resettlement Action Plans
1. Hunan Resettlement Action Plan, December 1998
2. Hubei Resettlement Action Plan, March1999
D. Environment (EIA, EAP, Summaries)
1. Hubei Environmental Assessment - Executive Summary, Feb. 1999;
2. Hubei El Statement, Feb. 1999;
3. Hubei Dawu-Hongan Highway El Statement, Feb. 1999;
4. Hubei Tongshan-Chongyang-Puqi Highway - EI Statement, Feb. 1999;
5. Hubei EAP, Feb. 1999;
6. Hubei Dawu-Hongan Highway - EAP, Feb. 1999;
7. Hubei Tongshan-Chongyang-Puqi Highway - EAP, Feb. 1999;
8. Hunan Environmental Assessment - Executive Summary, Jan. 1999;



Project Appraisal Document                Page 148                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
9. Hunan Linxiang-Changsha Freeway - EIA (Volumes I and II), Jan. 1999;
10. Hunan Linxiang-Changsha Freeway - EAP, Jan. 1999
11. Hunan Report of Investigations and Prospecting Results of Cultural Relics and the
Schedule for their Archeological Exploration, Jan. 1999;
E. Institutional Strengthening and Training
1. Hunan Institutional Development Plan, March 1999
2. Hubei Institutional Development Plan, March 1999
F. Economic and Financial Reports
-Report of Economic/Financial Evaluation and Evaluation of the Project, December 1998
-Further Information on Economic Evaluation, March 1999
-Revised Traffic Projections, March 1999
G. Hunan and Hubei Equipment Procurement Reports, February 1999 and March 1999.
HI. Request for Proposals for Consultant's Services for Supervision of Construction
1. Hunan Request for Proposals for Consultant's Services for Supervision of Construction of
TCE, January 1999
2. Hubei Request for Proposals for Consultant's Services for Supervision of Construction of
ZTE, January 1999
J. Prequalification Document for Civil Works
i. Hunan Prequalification Document for Civil Works, January 1999
2. Hubei Prequalification Document for Civil Works, February 1999
K. Procurement Capacity Assessment
1. Hunan Procurement Capacity Assessment Report, April 1999
2. Hubei Procurement Capacity Assessment Report, April 1999
L. Engineering Design Reviews
1. Hubei Engineering Design Review Report, Typsa, Madrid, Spain, May 1999
2. Hunan Engineering Design Review Report, Italconsult, Italy, Rome, April 1999



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 149                                                       Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
ANNEX 18: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
Fourth National Highway Project
Status of Bank Group Operations in China
Operations Portfolio
As of 17-May-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                 disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 106
Active Projects
CN-PE-3653       1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN        CONTAINER TRANSPORT                      71.00        0.00         0.00              71.00        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-36953      1999   PRC                              HEALTH IX                                10.00       50.00         0.00              60.00        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-41890      1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN        LIAONING URB TRANSP                     150.00        0.00         0.00             150.00        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-49665      1999   PRC                              ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                     90.00       30.00         0.00             119.00        3.60        0.00
CN-PE-50036      1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN        ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                    200.00        0.00         0.00             200.00        9.94         0.00
CN-PE-51856      1999   MINISTRY OF FINANCE              ACCNTG REFORM & DEV                      27.40        5.61         0.00              32.96        2.04        0.00
CN-PE-63123      1999   PRC                              YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                     40.00       40.00         0.00              79.16        3.34        0.00
CN-PE-3539      1998   PRC                               SUST COAST RES DEV                      100.00        0.00         0.00              96.00         .17        0.00
CN-PE-3566       1998                                    BASIC HEALTH                              0.00       85.00         0.00              81.04        -.20        0.00
CN-PE-35698      1998   PRC                              HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                    300.00        0.00         0.00             300.00       12.00        0.00
CN-PE-3591       1998   PRC                              STATE FARMS COMNERCI                    150.00        0.00         0.00             102.59      -30.24        0.00
CN-PE-3606       1998   GOC                              ENERGY CONSERVATION                      63.00        0.00         0.00              63.00        3.18         0.00
CN-PE-3614       1998   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN        GUANGZ. CITY CRT.TRP                    200.00        0.00         0.00             192.00        7.12        0.00
CN-PE-3619       1998   MINISTRY OF FINANCE              2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                    123.00        0.00         0.00             123.00       20.00        0.00
CN-PE-36414      1998   CHINA                            GUANGXI URBAN ENV.                       72.00       20.00         0.00              88.81       -1.03        0.00
CN-PE-36949      1998   PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA        NAT.HWY 3-HUBEI                         250.00        0.00         0.00             234.96        6.63        0.00
CN-PE-40185      1998   PRC                              SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                     95.00        0.00         0.00              92.00       23.80         0.00
CN-PE-45788     1998   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN         TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                      230.00        0.00         0.00             230.00       43.54        0.00
CN-PE-46563     1998   PRC                               TARIM BASIN II                           90.00       60.00         0.00             140.69        6.80         0.00
CN-PE-46952     1998   PRC                               FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                    100.00      100.00         0.00             200.68        9.17       18.34
CN-PE-49700     1998   PRC                               IAIL-2                                  300.00        0.00         0.00             280.00        7.30        0.00
CN-PE-51736      1998   GOC                              E. CHINA/JIANGSU PWR                    250.00        0.00         0.00             250.00      102.64        0.00
CN-PE-56491     1998   PRC                               HEBEI EARTHQUAKE                          0.00       28.40         0.00               5.66      -13.33        0.00
CN-PE-34081      1997   PRC                              XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                    430.00        0.00         0.00             323.36       92.85         0.00
CN-PE-3590      1997   PRC                               QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                     30.00      150.00         0.00             148.20       27.18        0.00
CN-PE-3635      1997   PRC                               VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                     10.00       20.00         0.00              11.98       -1.22         0.00
CN-PE-3637       1997   PRC                              NATL RUR WATER III                        0.00       70.00         0.00              62.02       11.81        0.00
CN-PE-36405      1997   PRC                              WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                    400.00        0.00         0.00             320.09       13.42         0.00
CN-PE-3643       1997   PRC                              XINJIANG HIGHWAYS II                    300.00        0.00         0.00             230.72       62.72         0.00
CN-PE-3650       1997   GOC                              TUOKETUO POWER/INNER                    400.00        0.00         0.00            391.00       144.78        3.51
CN-PE-3654      1997   PRC                               HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                    400.00        0.00         0.00            321.24        81.22        0.00
CN-PE-36952     1997   PRC                               BASIC ED. IV                              0.00       85.00         0.00              41.32      -24.85        0.00
CN-PE-38988      1997   PRC                              HEILONGJIANG ADP                        120.00        0.00         0.00              93.02       10.70        0.00
CN-PE-44485      1997                                    SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                     400.00        0.00         0.00             382.70       35.94        0.00
CN-PE-34618      1996   PRC                              LABOR MARKET DEV.                        10.00       20.00         0.00              23.99       22.66        0.00
CN-PE-3507       1996   GOC                              ERTAN HYDRO II                          400.00        0.00         0.00              23.48      -21.26         0.00
CN-PE-3563       1996   PRC                              ANIMAL FEED                             150.00        0.00         0.00             138.78      113.97       22.13



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 150                                                      Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                               disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
CN-PE-3569      1996   P.R.C.                           SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI                   260.00        0.00        7.75             106.81       32.91       23.25
CN-PE-3589      1996   PRC                              DISEASE PREVENTION                       0.00      100.00        0.00              68.97       59.63        0.00
CN-PE-3594      1996   PRC                              GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                     60.00       90.00        0.00             125.49       27.79        0.00
CN-PE-3599      1996   YUNNAN PROV. GOV.                YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                     125.00       25.00        0.00             139.11       20.95        0.00
CN-PE-3602      1996   PRC                              HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO                   125.00       25.00        0.00             123.98       78.98        0.00
CN-PE-3638      1996   PRC                              SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                    80.00       20.00        0.00              73.11       22.34        0.00
CN-PE-3646      1996   PRC                              CHONGQING IND POL CT                   170.00        0.00       77.99              91.22      106.20        0.00
CN-PE-3648      1996   SHANGHAI MUN. GOVT               SECOND SHANGHAI SEWE                   250.00        0.00        0.00             148.15       72.54        0.00
CN-PE-3649      1996   CHINA                            SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                     0.00      100.00        0.00              34.51       -5.88        0.00
CN-PE-3652      1996   PRC                              2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                   210.00        0.00        0.00             139.29       56.62        0.00
CN-PE-36950    1996   PRC                               BASIC ED. POOR III                       0.00      100.00        0.00               9.05      -21.13        0.00
CN-PE-40513    1996   PRC                               2ND HENAN PROV HWY                     210.00        0.00        0.00             175.14       55.81        0.00
CN-PE-3493      1995   PRC                              INLAND WATERWAYS                       420.00        0.00        0.00             270.62      -10.79        0.00
CN-PE-3571      1995   PRC                              RAILWAYS VII                           400.00        0.00       29.00             344.67      209.66        1.51
CN-PE-3585      1995   GOC                              SHENYANG IND. REFORM                   175.00        0.00        0.00              97.54       52.68        0.00
CN-PE-3596      1995   PRC                              YANGTZE BASIN WATER                    100.00      110.00        0.00              27.75      -16.90        0.00
CN-PE-3598      1995                                    LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                   110.00        0.00        0.00              64.96       54.88        0.00
CN-PE-3600      1995   PRC                              TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                   200.00        0.00        0.00             123.15       45.73        0.00
CN-PE-3603      1995   PRC                              ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE                   275.00       75.00       20.00             196.98      156.61        9.26
CN-PE-36041    1995   MOF                               FISCAL & TAX REF. &                     50.00       25.00        0.00              66.29       41.78        0.00
CN-PE-3612      1995   PRC                              XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                     150.00        0.00        0.00              41.95       33.63        0.00
CN-PE-3634      1995   PRC                              MATERNAL CHILD HEALT                     0.00       90.00        0.00              18.40        9.92        0.00
CN-PE-3636      1995   PRC                              BASIC EDUC IN POOR &                     0.00      100.00        0.00               3.38        -.63        0.00
CN-PE-3639      1995   PRC                              SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                    95.00      200.00        0.00             135.27       28.38        0.00
CN-PE-3642      1995                                    ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                    400.00        0.00        0.00             129.95      -44.08        0.00
CN-PE-3647      1995   PRC                              ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                      0.00       10.00        0.00               5.51        5.72        0.00
CN-PE-36947     1995   GOC                              SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                   270.00        0.00        0.00             132.50      120.94       84.43
CN-PE-37156    1995   PRC                               IODINE DEF. DISORDER                     7.00       20.00        7.00               1.77       11.44        -.32
CN-PE-3502      1994   MOH                              RUR HEALTH MANPOWER                      0.00      110.00         0.00             27.28       21.76        0.00
CN-PE-3504      1994   PRC                              HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL                   380.00        0.00        0.00              39.36       11.01        0.00
CN-PE-3540      1994   PRC                              LOESS PLATEAU                            0.00      150.00        0.00              27.92      -21.54        0.00
CN-PE-3557      1994   PRC                              FOREST RESOURCE DEV                      0.00      200.00        0.00              40.42       14.68      -30.70
CN-PE-3562      1994   PRC                              XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE                460.00        0.00         0.00               .48          .48       0.00
CN-PE-3586      1994   PRC                              SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT                   160.00        0.00        0.00              58.50       53.61        0.00
CN-PE-3593      1994   PRC                              SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                       0.00      205.00        0.00              24.64      -11.85        0.00
CN-PE-3595      1994   PRC                              RED SOILS II DEVELOP                     0.00      150.00        0.00              40.31       17.62        0.00
CN-PE-3609      1994   GOC                              SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION         255.00        0.00        0.00             121.72       72.23        0.00
CN-PE-3622      1994   SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVT          SHANGHAI MTP II                        150.00        0.00        0.00               7.36        7.37        0.00
CN-PE-3626      1994   GOC                              FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                    140.00         0.00        0.00             58.63       39.29       11.14
CN-PE-3633      1994   GOVERNMENT OF PRC                TELECOMMUNICATIONS                     250.00        0.00       30.00              14.55       44.55       -3.05
CN-PE-3641      1994   PRC                              YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                   350.00         0.00       0.00              73.39       58.82        0.00
CN-PE-3644      1994   PRC                              XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                  0.00      110.00        0.00              25.53       10.12        0.00
CN-PE-3473      1993   P.R.C.                           ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES                     0.00      110.00        0.00              19.77       19.19        0.00
CN-PE-3512      1993   GOVT OF PEOPLES REP. OF C        SHANGHAI PORT REST.                    150.00         0.00      25.74               3.88       29.27        3.20
CN-PE-3518      1993   PRC                              GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT              240.00         0.00       0.00               2.08          .06       0.00
CN-PE-3533      1993                                    TIANJIN IND. II                        150.00         0.00      40.35              13.59       44.93        9.60
CN-PE-3559      1993   PRC                              AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI                     0.00      115.00        0.00              10.40       -1.16        0.00
CN-PE-3561      1993   PRC                              SICHUAN ADP                              0.00      147.00         0.00              5.48        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-3567      1993   PRC                              EFFECTIVE TEACHING S                     0.00      100.00        0.00               6.25        4.64        4.70
CN-PE-3570      1993   PRC                              RAILWAY VI                             420.00         0.00        0.00             93.77       93.12        0.00
CN-PE-3580      1993   PRC                              SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON. PROTECT.           250.00         0.00       0.00               4.15          .48       0.00
CN-PE-3581      1993   PRC                              HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                  120.00         0.00        0.00              8.92        8.93        0.00
CN-PE-3592      1993   PRC                              REF. INST'L.& PREINV                     0.00       50.00        0.00              18.45       18.48        0.00
CN-PE-3597      1993   PRC                              TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO                   100.00      100.00         0.00             47.43       43.08        0.00
CN-PE-3616      1993   PRC                              TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                    300.00         0.00       0.00              65.95       50.41        0.00
CN-PE-3623      1993   PRC                              FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A                     0.00        60.00       0.00              18.53       16.33        0.00
CN-PE-3627      1993   PRC                              GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                   325.00      165.00         0.00            316.84      314.96       94.30
CN-PE-3632      1993   ROC                              ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                     0.00        50.00       0.00              10.70       11.06          .22



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 151                                                      Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursements a/
Project ID    Year              Borrower                    Purpose
TBRD        TDA      Cencellations  Undisbursed       Drig    Frm Rev'd
CN-PE-3503      1992                                   ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWE                   310.00        0.00        0.00              7.63        7.64        0.00
CN-PE--3534     1992   PRC                             ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP                   220.00        0.00        0.00             19.91       19.92       14.52
CN-PE-3564      1992   BEIJING MUNICIPALITY            BEIJING ENVIRONMENT                     45.00       80.00        0.00             25.28       20.02       12.22
CN-PE-3565      1992                                   SHANGHAI METRO TRANS                     0.00       60.00        1.69              1.32        -.08        0.00
CN-PE-3568      1992   R.O.C.                          TIANJIN URB DEV & EN                     0.00      100.00        0.00             15.49       12.42       -5.32
CN-PE-3624      1992   MIN. OF PUBL.HEALTH             INFECTIOUS DISEASES                      0.00      129.60        0.00             31.45       26.83       26.79
Total                                                                                      14,878.40   4,045.61      239.52           9,907.33   3,050.80       299.73
Active Projects      Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):             8,723.74           12,531.17           21,254.91
of which has been repaid:                73.75            2,539.74           2,613.49
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:            18,610.68            9,624.01           28,234.69
Amount sold                     :                0.00                0.00               0.00
Of which repaid             :                 0.00               0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed               :            9,907.33              20.27            9,927.60
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Apr-99.



Project Appraisal Document                                            Page 162                                      Fourth National Highway Project
County: ChinaL
ANN,'1L'qEX 19: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
Fourth National Highway Project
China at a glance                                                                    1/28/99
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                Asia &    middle.         -'- -                  
Cbine    Pacific  income         Dsvelopment daTemond'
Populalion. mid-year (mlfiorisl                       1,227.2      17'5$     Z,282                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Aias method, UJS$)                      1860          970      1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$5111/one)                        1,055.4      1,707      2,818
Average antnuat growth, 1981-97
Pplatoionl%                                                .         1,4        1,       GNP                                Gross
Labor fotce                          1A         IA        t3    ~~~~~ ~~~per                         primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                                    capita                          enrollment
Poverly.(% of populatfon below nalionalpoveofy flne).        7
Urban population (66 of total popu/ation)                  32          32        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                           70    ~ 66            59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 1/ve bir/as)                   32          38        36
Child malnutrition ('% of childran under,5)                 i's        16         -.                Access to safe water
Access to safe waler (66 of population)                     90.        84.       84
lgiteracy (96 ofpopulallon age 15e)                        1 9        17         19~
Gross pnimary enroUment (96 of school-age popuJalio )      120        118       114            -China
Male                                                    121        120        11ie               Lower-middle-/ncome group
Female                                                  120        119        113 
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
187      1988       1996       1897         ~        __''-                   __
Economic ratios'
GOP fUSS b/ilions)                             151.6    295.7       816.5      902.0
Gross domestic invastmentlGOP                   27,9      37,7       39.8       38.2Trd
Exports of goods and services/GO)P      ~        5,0      12.2       21.0       23.0Trd
Grors domestic savings/GDP                      28.6      35.2       41.7       42.7
Gross national savings/GDP                      25.5      35.3       40A       41 A
Curret account balance/GOP                       0.2      -2.5       0.0.       3.32.     Domestic                      Ivsmn
interest payments/GOP                              ..      0.2        0.8        0.6.    Savings                        Ivsmn
Total debtlGDP                                     .,       .0       15.8       16.3
Total debt service/exports                          .      9.8        8.7        86
Present value of debt/GDP                                               -       4.9 
Present value of debt/exports                     B.827
Indebtedness
1876.86  1987-97      1896       1887   1988-a       I
(average annual growth)
GDP                                    9.3      10.1       9.6        8.8Cin
GNP per capita                         8.3       6.6       8.7        7.4                           Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and serviC83         18.9      16,6       5.6       27.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1886        1886      1997       Growth rates of output end Investment (%)
(% of GDP')3
Agriculture                                     32.8      27.1       20.4       18.7
Industry                                        45.4      44,0       49.5      49.2    20
Manufacturing                                 29.5      35.5       37.8       37.3 
Services                                        21.7      28.9       30.1       32.1
Private consumption                             64.0      51.4       46.7       45.7             92   93   94   us   as   97
General govemment consumptlon                    7.5      13.4       11.6       11.6                  _GDI    -0-*-GP
Imports of goods end services                    4.5      14.7       18.9       18.5
(average annual growth)1976-86  1 987-97                 1986       1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                      6.0       4.4        5.1        3.5 
Industry                                        11.0      13.8       12.1       10.8    so
Manufacturing                                 12.6      13.3       11.6        9.9
Services                                        12.0       8,7        7.9        8.3
Private consumption                              9.3       8.8       11.1        6.2
General govemment consumpton                     9.4       9.9        9.5        8.2     0
Gross domestic investment                       10.8      11.2        8.2        5.6              2    93    04    9      o     9
imports of goods and aervices                   22.5      12.8        5.9       13.1                -Exports    l--mports
Gross national product                           9.8       9.9        9.8        8.5
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
Thin table was produced from the Development Economics centrail database.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared wilh its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                      Page 153                                   Fourth National Highway Project
County: China
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996     1997      Inflation(%)
DomestUc prices
(% change)                                                                       30
Consumer prices                                ,.     6.5       9.4      7.S    205>
Implidt GDP deflator                         4.0      4.6       5.9       1.2    1s
Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, Includes cuffent grants)                                               o
Currentrevenue                                 ..    24.0      11.4      12.0            92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                         ..     5.6       0.6       0.6            -     GDP deflator    O  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -1.8       -1.5      -1.5
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1976    1986       1996     1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                30,942   151,066  182,696       0
Food                                         ..   4,448    10,232   11,054           T
Fuel                                         ..   3,683      5,929    8,987    150,000
Manufactures                                 ..  19,870   129,141   158,767
Total imports (cif)                           ..  42,904   138,838  142,361       00,00_
Food                                         ..   2,002      7,866    6,308  so,000   Ilu-II 
Fuel and energy                              ..    504       6,877   10,306
Capital goods                                ..  20,415    59,610   57,930          0
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..     68                                 91 ..
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..     69         ..        ..                n Exports     m Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1976    1986        1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (/)
Exports of goods and services              7,383   29,583   171,700  207,253      4 T
Imports of goods and services              7,125   37,472   154,100  166,755
Resource balance                             258   -7,889    17,800   40,498      2;
Net income                                     0      176   -12,370  -15,900        I    t                         I
Net current transfers                          0     255      1,922    4,660  |  9
Current account balance                      258   -7,458     7,152   29,258    -2        9
Financing items (net)                         ..   5,410    28,248    6,599
Changes in net reserves                        ..   2,048   -35,400  -35,857
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)         ..  16,417   111,728  146,448
Conversion rate (DEC, locaWS$)               1.9      3.5       8.3       8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1988       1996     1997
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          ..  23,719   128,817  146,697
IBRD                                        ..    965       7,616    8,239                         A: 8,239
IDA                                          ..    774      7,579    7,830           G:31,484            s: 7,830
Total debt service                            ..   2,974    15,758   18,445                   =D 2,904
IBRO                                        ..      88        840      858
IDA                                          ..      8         73       81                                    E: 20,782
Compositon of net resource flows
Official grants                             ..    155         249      228
Official creditors                          ..   1,165      4,401    4,315                                  7
Private creditors                           ..   3,693      6,454    8,134                                  ,
Foreign direct investment                    ..   1,875    40,180   44,236
Portfolio equity                            ..       0      3,466    8,457
F: 75,478
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                 ,,   1,120      1,900    2,425      A IBRD                      E- Bilateral
Disbursements                               ,,    607       2,097    2,275      B- IDA    D- Other multlateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                        ..       0        364      377      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    ,.    607      1,734    1,898
Interest payments                           ..      75        549      562
Net transfers                               ..    532       1,185    1,335
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                     1/28/99



IBRD 29904
50'I 0120                                                                                                                                                                        10
~~~1 ~~~RUSSIAN  FEDERATION                                                                              f
KAZAKHSTAN                              -
JHE i/LNGQIANG
UZBEKISTAN                                '                                                         O      G       L    Ar                                                        .~"
-'  '                   D~~.oonaAoo"'MN                         N'G                                                                    JIL  IN
~~KYRGYZ  >
R~EPIJBLIC            .-*0INAG 
'N  't,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, (                                                                                                               7P~~~~~~~~~~~~EOP
C  H LB  <>>      "<7;   JfUREP.
0A,,dB,nE.T~~~~,b,,,do4os,                                                                                                   '~~~~~'>~~~'+3~~  KOREAE
qJ,,y,aroWt-o-h                'xN'~<X                                                                                                                                       
hep- of Th, Wb,rd Book
LHEA                                 CHENGDUAXI                          HNA                               i  '~~~'>;>          '1g4yt
CHINA 
FOURTH NATIONALGFU
HIGHWAY PROJECT
NATIONAL TRUNK HIGHWAY SYSTEM                                              .         UWN
,X       I    GU  DNG          E 
MAJOR HIGHWAYS.                           0)  SELECTED TOWNS                   .
COMPLETED                                  PS ROVINCE CAPITALS                n 
'   UNDER CONSTRUCTION                              NATIONAL CAPJAL                           "I.UiDE.q4P
FLANNED BEFORE 2005                   P"'     ROVINCE EOJNDARIES                                  VIETANAMP013 
PLAFNNES) AFTER 2005                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES     A                  .  - :0                                                             60     0    4.5     BO
.2.P'    LAO PEOPLE'D'oo0                                                         0        p      60      1 
THAILAND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PII
MAT 1999



IBRD 29905
MONGOLIA    >            ' o           ^ ,AON,NG JI
C H I N A                                                    -i; ---  , -  o S i+& <4 0REP. OREA
FOURTH NATIONAL                                                                                    <  ;azo--inKEP.E
HIGHWAY  PROJECT                                                               Q.NG-,                 SAX. Sr/ NJON    -
HIGHWAY PROJECTS:                                 MAIN ROADS                                                               Aa-  5HAt.A-
NH IV, IBRD FINANCING                 - -    RAILROADS                               ZN      ,UUA                            Z-B ,-- 
NH III, IBRD FINANCING                   0      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                      '             'Aro 3China
.maineo~~~''"                  e
EXISTING EXPRESSWAY,                    c       PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                   R    /
ADB FINANCED                                                                                       zo,/FA!
LA I C*  NATIONAL CAPITAL (INSET)
LOCAL FNANCINGPROVINCE BOUNDARIES                   YUNNAN         GVANGX.  'GLANGDONG
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES (INSET)   g                VITNAM
RIVERS----  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                              Sot h
RIVERS                                              (INSET)                                  OPLE'-    /   :'NAN    Clime Sea
THAILAND) REP .                             PHIL4INES 1
Naioa  HihasIV, Zhengdian -.                                           
Tucheng, 108 km., current                                 '                                    in-
project with World Bank financing                 inf an                                                  I    L    N
0  National Highways IV, Tucheng -                                                                                            A N
Chengsha, 183 km., current                                                             I ,
project with World Bank financing                                                                                                                   2
This map was produced by the                                                                                                             (
Mop Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations and                                                                          INHU ! )           (      hjNliVIl
anyother information shown on this map do                                                                                         ,     f       v flL 1.
not imply, on the port of The World Bank
Group,any judgmentonthelegalstatusof         \
any territory, or any endorsement or
acceptance of such boundaries.        \        gmen            -                                                                           '-
310yi
_ . -9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zhou >
-angli 
30".                  0-
29'~~                                       ~      ~ W  >             K        X         g                            9  -XR X
%       .              Tchen
Linli
~~~  0~                      ~ 
~~U N AtNp  al
Dagig4 a\ ,,,                                                                i A ,           v'\ 
I        I         O        20 40Chiuyangsha
280                  9KILOMETERS                                                                                               1          g1



