Report No. PID3600
Project Name                     China - Fourth National (@) ...
Highway Project (Hubei-Hunan
Provinces)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Transportation
Project ID                       CNPE41268
Borrower                         People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries                    Hubei and Hunan Provincial
Governments
Implementing Agency              Hubei and Hunan Provincial
Communications Departments
Date this PID Prepared           May 1999
Tentative Appraisal Date         March 1999
Project Cost/Financing
IBRD                             US$350.Om
Central Government               US$228.1 m
Hubei Province                   US$174.6 m
Hunan Province                   US$199.3 m
Total                            US$952.0 m
Country and Sector Background
1.      China-s economic development since the opening of its economy in the
late 1970s has resulted in a 9.5 percent average annual rate of economic
growth. Key facets of this growth are rapidly increasing domestic and foreign
trade as well as increasing personal mobility and consumption of energy.
These, in turn, have caused the demand for transport to surge. Supply
capacity, however, is constrained and this is now being recognized as one of
the most serious bottlenecks to future economic growth and efficiency. In
particular, motorization is growing rapidly but road transport, for
historical reasons, has not been widely developed in much of China outside its
cities. The road network ranks among the sparsest in the world relative to
geographic area or population and is quite unsafe. Few expressways exist, and
some 20 percent of rural communities have no all-weather vehicular access of
any kind. Governments at all levels have therefore embarked on a major
highway investment and improvement program.
2.      At the central level, the basic strategy is to develop a National Trunk
Highway System (NTHS) for the exclusive use of motorized vehicles, giving
priority to two North-South and two East-West corridors ("two verticals and
two horizontals"). The Ministry of Communications (MOC) has been planning
the NTHS, consisting of 12 interprovincial trunk expressways, with a total
length of some 30,000 km and connecting 95 major Chinese cities. The Beijing-
Zhuhai (Jingzhu) Expressway constitutes the priority corridor in this program.
This expressway crosses the provinces of Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, and
Guangdong over a distance of approximately 2,500 km. It is designed as a
high-grade, high-performance facility, at a minimum four lane standard, fully



access controlled, and will be operated throughout as a toll highway. Jingzhu
is scheduled for completion by about the year 2000. At the
provincial/regional level, the strategy is to concentrate on network
maintenance and the expansion and improvement of provincial and rural road
networks currently totaling more than 1 million km, to provide greater
mobility and to stimulate socio-economic development, particularly in less
developed regions.
The Project Provinces and JINGZHU Expressway
3.      Hubei Province, located in Central China, is situated in the middle
reaches of the Chang Jiang (Yangtze) river. It has an area of 180,000 sq km
and a population of 55 million, of which some 26 million live in urban areas
(479). Its economy is largely dominated by agriculture.    The province-s
commercial and industrial center is Wuhan, its largest and capital city, with
a population of 4 million. Wuhan is one of China-s key transportation hubs,
located at the crossroads of the new North-South (Beijing-Zhuhai) and East-
West (Shanghai-Chengdu) expressways, of several main railway lines, and of
important river routes on the Yangtze.
4.      Jingzhu Expressway in Hubei Province has a total length of 283 km and
consists of three distinct sections: (i) the Northern section from the Henan
border to the Wuhan Junshan Yangtze bridge site, with a total length of 170
km, of which 140 km are being undertaken with Bank financing under the NH3
Project (the 30 km section between the Henan border and Dawu will be built
later); (ii) the Yangtze crossing which includes the Junshan bridge and its
approaches with a total length of 5 km; and (iii) the Southern section from
Zhengdian to Tucheng on the Hunan border, with a length of 108 km and which
would be financed by the Bank under the proposed NH4 Project.
5.      Hunan Province, located in South-Central China, is situated in the
middle reaches of the Xiang Jiang river. It has an area of 210,000 sq km and
a population of 63 million, of which some 21 million live in urban areas
(339). Its economy is primarily based on agriculture.    The province-s
commercial and industrial centers are Changsha, Xiangtan, Zhuzhou, and
Hengyang, forming an important North-South corridor with a population of some
12 million. Changsha is Hunan-s capital with a population of 3 million. Dong
Ting lake, once the biggest fresh water lake in China, is located in North-
Eastern Hunan.
6.      Jingzhu Expressway in Hunan Province has a total length of 532 km and
consists of four distinct sections: (i) Tucheng (at Hubei border) to Changsha,
183 km, which is being prepared for Bank financing under NH4 Project; (ii)
Changsha to Xiangtan, 45 km, which was constructed through ADB financing;
(iii) Xiangtan to Leiyang, 169 km, which is being constructed through Bank
financing under NH2 Project; and (iv) Leiyang to Yizhan (at Guangdong border),
135 km which is being financed through domestic loans.
Project Objectives
7.      The aim of the proposed highway project is to increase economic activity
along the Wuhan-Changsha high-priority transport corridor through relieving
congestion, facilitating trade and mobility and helping increase efficiency
and traffic safety in Northern Hunan and Southern Hubei.
- 2 -



The proposed project would have the following objectives:
(a) relieve traffic congestion and improve the mobility and integration of
interprovincial trade and commerce between Hunan and Hubei Provinces by
assisting in the development of a key section of China-s National Trunk
Highway System (NTHS) in the principal Beijing-Zhuhai corridor;
(b) strengthen highway institutional capacity at both HPCDs and related sector
institutions, through policy and institutional reform, provision of training,
technical assistance and equipment, in planning, design, construction,
finance, operation and maintenance of highway networks;
(c) develop and sustain a policy dialogue in the two key reform areas of the
commercialization and corporatization of provincial toll road authorities and
of province-wide highway maintenance management; and
(d) improve the safety of road transport.
Project Description
8.      The investment components of the NH4 project would include the
construction of (i) Tucheng - Changsha section (183 km) in Hunan; (ii)
Zhengdian-Tucheng section (108 km) in Hubei; as well as (iii) interconnecting
road programs in both provinces.
9.      The institutional and policy components for both provinces would
comprise: (i) staff training and equipment to improve province-wide highway
financing, management, and operation; (ii) road traffic safety; (iii) studies
on province-wide highway maintenance and its funding; (iv) technical
assistance for the commercialization and corporatization of existing
provincial expressway companies, based on the results of studies that would be
carried out under NH2 and NH3 projects in Hunan and Hubei, respectively; and,
(v) construction supervision services for the two expressway sections, their
interconnecting roads, and other priority roads yet to be selected. In
addition, Hunan and Hubei have agreed to jointly undertake a study on
transport and trade integration in the Wuhan-Changsha corridor.
Project Costs and Financing
10.     The project is estimated to cost about $ 980 million (still tentative),
including land acquisition and contingencies. The Bank loan of about $350
million would be onlent to Hunan ($200 million) and Hubei ($150 million)
Provinces. The Central Government (MOC) would provide the equivalent of about
$228 million, while Hunan Province and Hubei Province would provide the
equivalent of about $199 million and $175 million, respectively, or the
remaining costs of the project.
Implementation
11.     Overall direction of the project at the central level rests with the
Ministry of Communication (MOC) in Beijing. The Bank loan would be given to
the Borrower (the Ministry of Finance, MOF) which in turn would onlent the
proceeds to the two provinces on the same conditions as the Bank loan to MOF.
Consequently, there would be a loan agreement with MOF and two project
agreements (one with each province) with Hunan and Hubei. Similar to what is
-3 -



being done in ongoing highway projects in China, all project accounts, its
special accounts, and all statements of expenditures will be audited by the
State Audit Administration.
12.     In Hunan, the Hunan Provincial Communications Department (HPCD) has
overall responsibility for project preparation and implementation. Under
HPCD, Hunan Provincial Expressway Construction and Development Corporation
(HPECDC) will be the executing agency for the Tucheng (Hubei border) -
Changsha Expressway (TCE) section. In order to strengthen the management of
the project, HPECDC has established a Tucheng Expressway Construction and
Development Branch Corporation, to be specifically responsible for the
preparation and implementation of the TCE section. In Hubei, the Hubei
Provincial Communications Department (HPCD) has overall responsibility for
project preparation and implementation. A special World Bank Finance Project
Office (WBFPO) at HPCD has been created for the preparation and implementation
of the World Bank-financed highway projects (NH3 and NH4) and it will be
executing agency for the Zhengdian-Tucheng (Hunan border) Expressway (ZTE)
section. In addition, six branches of WBFPO at HPCD, i.e.: Administration and
Secretary Department, Planning and Financial Department, Engineering
Department, Land Acquisition and Resettlement Department, General Engineer-s
Office and Expressway Construction Headquarters have been established. Both
the Hunan and Hubei project offices are staffed with sufficient and qualified
manpower which is already being strengthened under the ongoing NH2 project in
Hunan and the NH3 project in Hubei.
Rational for Bank Involvement
13.     A major objective of the CAS is to alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks.
This, among other infrastructure sectors, also applies to China's highway
sector and specifically to the construction of the NTHS. By implementing the
Wuhan-Changsha Expressway as part of the NTHS, the proposed project would
contribute directly to removing highway bottlenecks, facilitating
interprovincial trade and commerce, and promoting long-distance highway
transport between the capital cities of Hubei and Hunan Provinces and
locations in-between. The Wuhan-Changsha Expressway is the central element of
the much larger Beijing-Zhuhai Expressway Corridor (Jing-Zhu) which, with a
total length of some 2,500 km, constitutes China's highest priority highway
investment. The Bank is already heavily involved in the financing of several
other high priority sections in this corridor through the First, Second and
Third National Highway Projects which are all ongoing and progressing well.
Since expressway construction between Wuhan and Shanghai and between Changsha
and Guangzhou is already partially completed and partially ongoing, the NH4
project region of Northern Hunan and Southern Hubei would in the near future
become well connected to fast growing coastal areas with their deep-water
ports by high-grade highways. This will in turn help alleviate growing income
disparities between interior and coastal provinces, through improved access to
those coastal port cities and increased integration of Hunan and Hubei into
the world trading system by contributing more to Chinese imports and exports.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Sector
14.     Since 1985, the Bank has financed 21 highway projects in China (of which
seven have closed), amounting to more than US$4.0 billion in Bank loans and
IDA credits. The Bank has been and remains involved in the construction of
some 2,800 km of toll expressways and other high-grade toll highways and in
- 4 -



the rehabilitation, upgrading and maintenance of some 13,000 km of lower level
(including rural) roads. In addition, as revealed during a recent Bank review
and assessment of its highway TA, the Bank was and is involved in more than 50
TA tasks, comprising (i) highway planning and prioritization; (ii) highway
finance; (iii) highway maintenance; (iv) operation and management of high-
grade highways; and (v) traffic safety. Moreover, since mid-1996, the Bank
has also become heavily involved in the securitization of Bank-financed
highway assets in China (so-called "asset-based financing"), through the
issuance of highway equity of provincial toll road corporations on the Hong
Kong and Shenzhen stock exchanges.
15.     While the overall performance of the Bank's highway projects is by and
large satisfactory, a number of problems have occurred, which have been taken
into consideration in the design of the proposed project. The problems
include: inadequate engineering designs and bid documents including costing of
civil works; quality control of construction; late commencement of electrical
and mechanical facilities component (which has delayed completion of some
projects and necessitated the extension of the closing date of several Bank
loans), and some lack in the scope and speed of policy and institutional
reform, specifically relating to road maintenance, improved high-grade highway
management and operation, and traffic safety.
16.     All engineering designs and technical bid documents including cost
estimates for the proposed expressways and related roads, including their E&M
facilities, are being reviewed by international engineering consultants under
grant funding from Italy (Hunan) and Spain (Hubei). These technical reviews
are still ongoing and will be completed by mid-1999. The quality of project
engineering has also profited from the involvement of a French expressway
specialist who participated in every project preparation mission. Quality
control of construction, specifically for expressway works will be undertaken
by foreign and domestic supervision consultants, with on average one well
trained and experienced supervisor per km of expressway. The matter will also
be addressed through increasing the frequency and quality of the Bank-s
supervision, by adding an experienced Chinese construction engineer to the
technical staff at RMC who will also supervise the road works under NH4. This
will be reflected in the proposed supervision mission plan. Timely completion
of the E&M component will be achieved through stricter control and early
commencement of the design and tendering procedures.
17.     There also is a growing concern that adequate funding for highway
maintenance is now not being secured to cover an expanding and more expensive
highway system. Previously, this was not a real issue in China; adequate
funding was set aside for this purpose. Two highway maintenance studies to be
carried out under NH2 in Hunan and NH3 in Hubei as well as two Maintenance
Cost and Fund Allocation studies under NH4 would address the organizational
framework and develop a sustainable maintenance policy for the two provinces.
18.     Experience in the area of land acquisition and resettlement has
generally been satisfactory in the Bank-s highway projects in China. In this
area, as in the environmental area, it is particularly important that the Bank
make its requirements well known to the Chinese agencies at an early stage in
the preparation of the project. A Bank resettlement specialist was involved
from the very beginning in project preparation. The resettlement action plans
for the proposed project are being reviewed and will be cleared by the Legal
Department before appraisal of the project. Experience in the environmental
- 5 -



area in China has generally been favorable as well. As in the case of
resettlement, a Bank environmental specialist has been involved in project
preparation from the very beginning. However, more attention needs to be paid
to environmental supervision during construction and to the training of
environmental personnel by the Chinese side. The proposed project will
provide an adequate institutional setup and training for such environmental
supervision and training. The quality of the Bank-s resettlement and
environmental work has also been improved recently, as part of the Bank-s
decentralization efforts. More of this work will in future be shifted to RMC
due to inceasing resident mission capacity in resettlement and environment.
Environmental Aspects
19.     The project is a category "A" from an environmental point of view.
Environmental impact assessments (EIA) and Environmental Action Plans (EAP)
have been prepared for the proposed expressway. The revised final EIAs, EAPs
and EA Summaries were submitted in January 1999 and were found to be
satisfactory to the Bank. In both the Hubei and Hunan sections of the
expressway, the major environmental impacts during the construction period
include noise, soil erosion, and dust. Lesser impacts include alteration of
hydrological regimes, interference with local people and traffic and impacts
on the local ecology and on irrigation system. Traffic noise, air pollution
from vehicle exhaust emission, soil erosion and water pollution from service
areas are identified as the major adverse impacts during the operation period.
Resettlement Aspects
20.     The project will require land acquisition and resettlement.
Socioeconomic surveys of the affected people and communities have been
conducted and census of Project Affected Persons (PAPs) and their assets has
been completed on all the alignments considered for the project. Resettlement
Action Plans (RAPs) are in accordance with Bank-s Operational Directive 4.30
and have been found satisfactory. Efforts will be made during project
preparation to minimize land acquisition and resettlement through
modifications in highway alignments and designs.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 4, 1999.
- 6 -



