Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4493 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Fourth National Highway Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated   September 17, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4493 CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 17, 1999, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Project Provinces with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the 
proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available 
to the Project Provinces, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the Project 
Provinces (the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings wherever used herein:
(a)
“Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) 
right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily 
or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place residence or habitat 
adversely affected, and “Affected Person” means any of the Affected Persons; 
(b)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(c)
“EAPs” means, collectively, the Hubei EAP and the Hunan EAP, and “EAP” 
means either of the EAPs; 
(d)
“Front-end fee” means the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement, payable by the Borrower at effectiveness of the Loan Agreement; 
(e)
“Hubei” means the Borrower’s Hubei Province, and any successor thereto; 
(f)
“Hubei EAP” means the Environmental Action Plan dated March 1999, 
referred to in paragraph  A (1) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as may be 
revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank, which sets out the 
environmental protection measures in respect of Part A of the Project, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan;
(g)
“Hubei RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan in respect of Part A of 
the Project, dated March 1999, prepared by the Hubei Province Jingzhu Expressway 
Resettlement Office and referred to in paragraph A (1) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, as may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank, which 
sets out the principles and procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and 
compensation, as well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance 
with said plan; 
(h)
“Hubei Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(i) of this Agreement;  
(i)
“Hunan” means the Borrower’s Hunan Province, and any successor thereto; 
(j)
“Hunan EAP” means the Environmental Action Plan dated April 1999, 
referred to in paragraph A (1) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as may be 
revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank, which sets out the 
environmental protection measures in respect of Part B of the Project, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan;
(k)
“Hunan RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan in respect of Part B of 
the Project, dated December 1998, prepared on behalf of the Resettlement Office of 
Hunan Provincial Tucheng-Changsha Expressway and referred to in paragraph A (1) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank, which sets out the principles and procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan; 
(l)
“Hunan Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(ii) of this Agreement;  
(m)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project 
Provinces of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(n)
“Project Provinces” means, collectively, Hubei and Hunan, and “Project 
Province” means either of the Project Provinces; 
Page  3
(o)
“RAPs” means, collectively, the Hubei RAP and the Hunan RAP, and “RAP” 
means either of the RAPs;
(p)
“Respective Part of the Project” means, in respect of Hubei, Part A of 
the Project, and, in respect of Hunan, Part B of the Project; 
(q)
“Respective Part of the Proceeds of the Loan” means, in respect of Hubei, 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1), and in respect 
of Hunan, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (2); 
(r)
“Special Accounts” means, collectively, the Hubei Special Account and the 
Hunan Special Account, and “Special Account” means either of the Special Accounts; 
(s)
“Tucheng-Changsha Expressway” means the expressway between Tucheng and 
the municipality of  Changsha in Hunan, to be constructed under Part B.1 of the 
Project; and 
(t)
“Zhengdian-Tucheng Expressway” means the expressway between Zhengdian and 
Tucheng in Hubei, to be constructed under Part A.1 of the Project. 
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to Hubei or Hunan, as the case 
may be.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three 
hundred fifty million Dollars ($350,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars: 
(i)
a special deposit account for purposes of Part A of the Project; 
and 
(ii)
a special deposit account for purposes of Part B of the Project;
each in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment.  
Deposits into, and 
payments out of each Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
Page  4
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial 
period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars 
for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause each of the Project Provinces to perform in accordance with the provisions 
of the Project Agreement all the obligations of said Project Province therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable said 
Project Province to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to each Project Province its Respective 
Part of the Proceeds of the Loan on the following principal terms:
(i)
Each Project Province shall repay a principal amount equal to the 
sum of: (A) 
the amount equivalent in Dollars (determined on the 
dates of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account, or payment out of the 
Page  5
respective Special Account) of the 
value of the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out, and (B) an 
amount equal to a pro-rata portion of the amount of the Front-end Fee based on 
its Respective Part of the Proceeds of the Loan;  
(ii)
said Project Province shall repay, in Dollars, the principal 
amount referred 
to in paragraph (b)(i) above over a period of 
twenty (20) years, inclusive of 
a grace period of five (5) years;  
(iii)
said Project Province shall pay interest on such principal amount 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to 
the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to 
the Loan pursuant to Section 2.06 (a) of this 
Agreement; and 
(iv)
said Project Province shall pay a commitment charge on such 
principal amount 
not withdrawn from time to time at a rate 
equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by each 
Project Province in respect of its Respective Part of the Project pursuant to Section 
2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures 
are retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including 
a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
Page  6
relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
(a)
Either Project Province shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that either Project Province will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by each Project Province, and is legally binding upon said 
Project Province in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People’s Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANMIN
222486 MFPRC CN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  7
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Part A of the Project
(Hubei Province)
(a)
Works under 
Part A.1 (a) of 
the Project
 114,700,000
45%
(b)
Works under
Part A.1(b) of 
the Project
   2,200,000
20%
(c)
Works under
Part A.1(c) of 
the Project
   2,500,000
20%
(d)
Works under
Part A.1 (d) of 
the Project
   6,900,000
80%
(e)
Works under
Part A.2 of 
the Project
   2,300,000
10%
(f)
Goods
   2,400,000
100% of foreign
Page  8
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(g)
Consultants'
   2,500,000
100% 
services and training
(h)
Unallocated
  15,000,000
(2)
Part B of the Project
(Hunan Province)
(a)
Works under 
Part B.1 (a) of 
the Project
 154,100,000
48%
(b)
Works under
Part B.1 (b) 
of the Project
   3,800,000
25%
(c)
Works under
Part B.1 (c) of 
the Project
   2,800,000
25%
(d)
Works under
Part B.1 (d) of 
the Project
  10,300,000
70%
(e)
Goods
   3,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(f)
Consultants’
   4,000,000
100%
services and training
(g)
Unallocated
  20,000,000
(3)
Fee
   3,500,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
TOTAL
 350,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods and services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be 
“foreign expenditures”; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
Page  9
$15,000,000, in respect of Categories (1)(a), (1)(f) and (1)(g) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, and the equivalent of $20,000,000 in respect of 
Categories (2)(a), (2)(e) and (2)(f) set forth in said table, may be made on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 15, 1999.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $250,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each; (c)
consultants’ services under contracts awarded to: (i) 
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, and (ii) individuals 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d)
training; all under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) support the continuing development of 
the Borrower’s national trunk highway system in the north-south corridor; (b) 
strengthen the institutional capacity of the highway sector institutions in the 
provinces of Hubei and Hunan; and (c) improve the safety of road transport in said 
provinces.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
PART A:
Hubei Province
1.
Construction of the Zhengdian-Tucheng Expressway, including: (a) about 110 
kilometers (km) of expressway and related interchanges; (b) about 28 km of 
interconnecting roads linking said Expressway to the main cities and towns in the 
area; (c) service and rest areas, and expressway administration and maintenance 
facilities for said Expressway; and (d) supply and installation of electrical, 
electronic and mechanical equipment for toll collection, traffic monitoring, lighting 
and telecommunications on said Expressway. 
2.
Upgrading of the roads from Hongan to Jingzhu of about 69 km and from Tongshan 
and Chongyang to Jingzhu of about 95 km, through construction of new road segments and 
rehabilitation of portions of existing roads. 
3.
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection with the 
carrying out of Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project. 
4.
Strengthening of the capacity of the provincial highway sector institutions in 
the province through staff training in the areas of highway planning, finance, design, 
construction supervision, environment monitoring, operation and maintenance, and road 
safety. 
5.
(a) Development and implementation of a program of institutional strengthening 
and capacity building of the provincial highway sector institutions to increase their 
effectiveness and participation in a market-oriented economy; and (b) carrying out of 
studies in the areas of, inter alia: competition in road maintenance, road safety, 
management systems, maintenance cost and fund allocation, and Hunan-Hubei transport 
and trade integration.
PART B:  Hunan Province
1.
Construction of the Tucheng-Changsha Expressway, including: (a) about 183 km of 
expressway and related interchanges; (b) about 30 km of interconnecting roads linking 
said Expressway to the main cities and towns in the area; (c) service and rest areas, 
and expressway administration and maintenance facilities for said Expressway; and (d) 
supply and installation of electrical, electronic and mechanical equipment for toll 
collection, traffic monitoring, lighting and telecommunications on said Expressway. 
2.
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection with the 
carrying out of Part B.1 of the Project. 
Page  10
3.
Strengthening of the capacity of the highway sector institutions in the province 
through staff training in the areas of highway planning, finance, design, construction 
supervision, environment monitoring, operation and maintenance and road safety.
4.
(a) Development and implementation of a program of institutional strengthening 
and capacity building of the provincial highway sector institutions to increase their 
effectiveness and participation in a market-oriented economy; and (b) carrying out of 
studies in the areas of, inter alia: competition in road maintenance, road safety, 
management systems, road classification, maintenance cost and fund allocation, and 
Hunan-Hubei transport and trade integration.
*  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004. 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
    (Expressed  
Date Payment Due
    in Dollars)*
February 15, 2005
  7,695,000 
August 15, 2005
  7,905,000 
February 15, 2006
  8,120,000 
August 15, 2006
  8,340,000 
February 15, 2007
  8,570,000 
August 15, 2007
  8,800,000 
February 15, 2008
  9,040,000 
August 15, 2008
  9,285,000 
February 15, 2009
  9,540,000 
August 15, 2009
  9,800,000 
February 15, 2010
 10,065,000 
August 15, 2010
 10,340,000 
February 15, 2011
 10,620,000 
August 15, 2011
 10,910,000 
February 15, 2012
 11,205,000 
August 15, 2012
 11,510,000 
February 15, 2013
 11,825,000 
August 15, 2013
 12,145,000 
February 15, 2014
 12,475,000 
August 15, 2014
 12,815,000 
February 15, 2015
 13,165,000 
August 15, 2015
 13,520,000 
February 15, 2016
 13,890,000 
August 15, 2016
 14,270,000 
February 15, 2017
 14,655,000 
August 15, 2017
 15,055,000 
February 15, 2018
 15,465,000 
August 15, 2018
 15,885,000 
February 15, 2019
 16,315,000 
August 15, 2019
 16,775,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1)(a), (1)(b), (1)(c), 
Page  11
(1)(d), (1)(e), (1)(f) and (1)(g) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement in respect of Part A of the Project and Categories (2)(a), (2)(b), 
(2)(c), (2)(d), (2)(e) and (2)(f) set forth in said table in respect of Part B of the 
Project; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  Parts A and B of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $12,000,000 in 
respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project and an amount equal to 
$15,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part B thereof, to be withdrawn from 
the Loan Account and deposited into the respective Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$8,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project and an amount 
equal to $10,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part B thereof, until (i) 
in respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project, the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to Categories (1)(a), (1)(b), (1)(c), 
(1)(d), (1)(e), (1)(f) and (1)(g) plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions for Part A of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$50,000,000, and (ii) in respect of the Special Account for Part B of the Project, the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to Categories (2)(a), 
(2)(b), (2)(c), (2)(d), (2)(e) and (2)(f) plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions for Part B of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$65,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as 
shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of 
the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
Page  12
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
