Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4493 CHA
Project Agreement
(Fourth National Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HUBEI PROVINCE and HUNAN PROVINCE
Dated September 17, 1999 
LOAN NUMBER 4493 CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 17, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HUBEI PROVINCE (Hubei) and HUNAN 
PROVINCE (Hunan) (Hubei and Hunan hereinafter referred to as the Project Provinces, 
and individually as a Project Province).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to three hundred fifty million Dollars ($350,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the 
Project Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth 
in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth wherever used herein. 
ARTICLE II 
Page  2
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) Each Project Province declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and economic practices, and safety and environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for its Respective Part of the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Project Province concerned shall otherwise agree, each 
Project Province shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) Each Project Province shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
Agreement and its Respective Part of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, each Project Province shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and said Project Province, 
a plan for the 
future operation of its Respective Part of the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
said Project 
Province on said plan. 
Section 2.04. (a) Each Project Province shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of its Respective Part of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
(b)
Each Project Province shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its Respective Part of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by said 
Project Province of its obligations under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) Each Project Province shall maintain, or cause to be 
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of its 
Respective Part of the Project of the departments or agencies of such Project Province 
responsible for carrying out its Respective Part of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Each Project Province shall: (i)
have the records and accounts referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section  for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
Page  3
time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of each Project 
Province thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify each 
Project Province thereof. 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
    Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Hubei Province:
The People’s Government of Hubei Province 
1 Beihuan Road Wuchang Wuhan 430071
Hubei Province
People’s Republic of China
Facsimile:  
027-87811731
For Hunan:
The People’s Government of Hunan Province
69 Wuyi Road
Changsha 
Hunan Province
People’s Republic of China
Facsimile:  
0731-4421029
Page  4
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of each Project 
Province may be taken or executed by the Governor or any Vice Governor of said Project 
Province or such other person or persons as such Governor or Vice Governor shall 
designate in writing, and such Project Province shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
HUBEI PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao 
Authorized Representative
HUNAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement  
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
Page  5
(b)
Two-stage bidding procedure 
The bidding procedure for the provision and installation of electrical, 
electronic and mechanical equipment under Parts A.1(d) and B.1(d) shall be carried out 
in two stages in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines. 
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower, excluding 
goods manufactured in the Borrower’s Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
(d)
Dispute Review Board 
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines. 
(e)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
Limited International Bidding 
Goods which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works under Parts A.1 (b) and (c) and Part A.2 in respect of Hubei and under 
Parts B.1 (b) and (c) in respect of Hunan, estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $59,100,000 
equivalent in respect of Hubei’s Respective Part of the Project, and $34,000,000 
equivalent in respect of Hunan’s Respective Part of the Project, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
3.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent for each of Parts A and B of the 
Project, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for (i) works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or more, and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
Page  6
shall apply. 3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by 
paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedure for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Individual Consultants Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Page  7
Implementation Program 
A.
Environment.  Land Acquisition and Resettlement
1.
In respect of its Respective Part of the Project, each Project Province shall: 
(a)
carry out its respective EAP and RAP in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank; 
(b)
furnish any proposed revision of the plans referred to in sub-paragraph 
(a) above to the Bank for its prior approval;  
(c)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of said plans; and
(d)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) on January 31 of each year, starting in 2000 through 2007, an annual 
environmental monitoring report; and (ii) on January 31, 2000, July 31, 2000 and 
thereafter on each January 31 during the period of Project implementation, an internal 
resettlement report prepared by the appropriate agencies of said Project Province, and 
an external resettlement report prepared by an independent entity acceptable to the 
Bank, on the implementation and impact of the resettlement activities during the 
immediately preceding six month or one year period, as the case may be. 
B.
Implementation of the Project  
1.
During the implementation of Parts A.1, A.2 and B.1 of the Project, 
respectively, the Project Provinces shall: 
(a)
employ and maintain construction supervision teams with qualified staff 
in adequate number to ensure that all works are carried out in accordance with 
technical specifications and that strict quality controls are exercised on all sites; 
and 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and provide 
to the Bank a monthly progress report on the works on the Zhengdian-Tucheng Expressway 
and the Tucheng-Changsha Expressway, respectively.  
2.
In respect of the Zhengdian-Tucheng Expressway and the Tucheng-Changsha 
Expressway, respectively, the Project Provinces shall, by March 31, 2002, complete and 
furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, an analysis and recommendations on 
the structure of toll-rates on said Expressways, taking into consideration the results 
of studies on toll-rate structure under Bank-financed highway projects in China the 
experience with toll rates on major roads in China.
3.
Each Project Province shall: (i) carry out the training under Parts A.4 and B.3 
of the Project, respectively, in accordance with training programs acceptable to the 
Bank; and to that end (ii) by June 30 of each year, commencing in June 30, 2000, 
furnish to the Bank for its prior approval a rolling two-year training program.
4.
For purposes of Parts A.5 and B.4 of the Project, respectively, each Project 
Province shall: 
(a)
(i) by October 1, 2000, prepare, and thereafter update annually, an 
institutional development and reform plan for the next 6 years for its respective 
highway sector, such plan to cover the areas of, inter alia, competition in road 
maintenance and road safety, and to include organizational development and 
strengthening, training needs, equipment needs and management systems development; and 
(ii) furnish said plan to the Bank for its review and comments; and 
(b)
on the basis of the institutional development and reform plan referred to 
in sub-paragraph (a) above, (i) by October 1 of each year, commencing on October 1, 
2000, prepare and provide to the Bank for its review and comments an annual program of 
implementation; and thereafter (ii) take all appropriate actions to implement said 
annual program, taking into consideration the Bank’s view thereon.
5.
For purposes of Parts A.5 and B.4 of the Project, respectively: 
Page  8
(a)
Each Project Province shall: (i) by December 31, 2001, complete a highway 
maintenance cost and fund allocation study under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank; (ii) furnish said study to the Bank for its review and comments; and thereafter 
(iii) implement the recommendations of said study, taking into consideration the 
Bank’s views thereon.
(b)
The Project Provinces shall: (i) by December 31, 2002, complete a joint 
study on Hubei-Hunan transportation and trade integration, under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish said study to the Bank for its review and 
comments; and thereafter (iii) implement the recommendations of said study taking into 
consideration the Bank’s views thereon.
(c)
Each Project Province shall: (i) by December 31, 2003, complete a study 
on safety measures regarding maintenance works, under terms of reference acceptable to 
the Bank; (ii) furnish said study to the Bank for its review and comments; and 
thereafter (iii) implement the recommendations of said study, taking into 
consideration the Bank’s views thereon. 
(d)
Each Project Province shall, by March 31, 2004: (i) complete the 
development of a road information system, a quality control system and an accident 
analysis system, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) put into 
effect said management systems, taking into consideration the Bank’s views thereon.
(e)
Each Project Province shall: (i) by March 31, 2002, prepare under terms 
of reference acceptable to the Bank and furnish to the Bank for its review and 
comments, a safety audit schedule and a schedule of black spot identification and 
improvement; and thereafter (ii) implement said schedules, taking into consideration 
the Bank’s views thereon.
(f)
Each Project Province shall, by March 31 of each year commencing in 2000 
through 2005, furnish to the Bank a report of annual highway expenditures for the 
preceding calendar year, said report to indicate: (a) the length of each class of 
highways classified in accordance to their condition as of December 31 of such 
calendar year; (b) the completed physical works and actual expenditures during such 
year with respect to new construction, upgrading, improvement or rehabilitation, 
periodic and routine maintenance, against the planned physical targets and budgeted 
funds; and (c) the targets of the highway program for the succeeding calendar year in 
respect of new construction, upgrading, improvement or rehabilitation, periodic and 
routine maintenance. 
C.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting 
1.
Each Project Province shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable 
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof. 
2.
Each Project Province shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank the following reports:
(a)
semi-annual reports, not later than January 31 and July 31 in each 
calendar year during Project implementation, commencing calendar year 2000, said 
reports to:  (i) integrate the results of said monitoring and evaluation activities on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project during 
the preceding calendar semester; (ii) set forth physical and financial progress in 
Project implementation, both cumulatively, and in respect of said preceding calendar 
semester; and (iii) set out any additional measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the immediately succeeding calendar semester; and 
(b)
an annual report on January 31 of each year, commencing in 2001 through 
2006, which (i) integrates the results of said monitoring and evaluation in respect of 
the impact of its Respective Part of the Project; and (ii) sets out any additional 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of its Respective Part of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the immediately 
succeeding year.
Page  9
3.
After furnishing each report referred to in paragraph 2 of this Part, each 
Project Province shall exchange views with the Bank on said report, and thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the continued efficient implementation of its 
Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the 
matter. 
4.
By December 31 of each year, or such other date as the Bank shall request, each 
Project Province shall hold a workshop together with representatives of the Bank to 
evaluate the progress in the implementation of its respective program of institutional 
and policy development and reform, and more specifically in regard to increase in 
competition in road maintenance, road safety, development of management systems, and 
road maintenance and fund allocation.
