Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6811-TJ
TECHNICAL ANNEX
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
APRIL 16, 1996



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Russian Ruble (Until May 10, 1995)
Currency Unit = Tajik Ruble (After May 10, 1995)
End of Period                           End of Period
(Russian Rubles per US$)             (Tajik Rubles per US$)
1993      December            1,240             1995       May             50
1994      December           3,550                         August          58
1995      April                                            September      153
December       300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARSP                 Agricultural Recovery and Social Protection Credit
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CEM                  Country Economic Memorandum
EAMU                 External Assistance Management Unit
FSU                  Former Soviet Union
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
IBRD                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IBTA                 Institution Building Technical Assistance
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
IDA                  International Development Association
IMF                  International Monetary Fund
MOA                  Ministry of Agriculture
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
NBT                  National Bank of Tajikistan
NGO                  Non-governmental Organization
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
SPC                  State Property Committee
SOE                  State-Owned Enterprise
TR                   Tajik Ruble
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Contents
Credit and Project Summary
I.  Background .............................................. 1
A. Policy Priorities During Transition ........      ...................... 2
B. Stabilization Program . ......................................  2
C. Structural Reform Program  ...........        ........................  2
II. The Project..                                                                         6
A. Project Objectives.                                                           6
B. Project Description.                                                          6
III.  Project Costs, Financing, Procurement and Disbursements                            10
IV.  Project Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing ....................... 14
V.  Environmental Aspects ........................................... 14
ANNEXES:
Annex 1:    Small-Scale Privatization
Annex 2:    Medium- and Large-Scale Privatization
Annex 3:    Mass Privatization
Annex 4:    Public Information in Support of Privatization
Annex 5:    Privatization of Cotton Entity
Annex 6:    Farm Restructuring
Annex 7:    Legal Assistance in Financial Sector
Annex 8:    Accounting and Auditing Reform
Annex 9:    Bank Audit Reports
Annex 10:  Bank Supervision and Regulation
Annex 11:  Payments System
Annex 12:  Procurement Advisor
Annex 13:  Office Equipment
SCHEDULES:
Schedule A: Detailed Project Costs and Financing Plan
Schedule B: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements and IDA Disbursements
Schedule C: Timetable of Key Processing Steps
Schedule D: Implementation Plan
Schedule E: Cost Estimates by Major Contract and Schedule of Critical Procurement Steps
Schedule F: Supervision Plan
Schedule G: Performance Monitoring Indicators






REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project Sumnmary
Borrower:                   Republic of Tajikistan
Implementing Agency:        Office of the Prime Minister
Beneficiaries:              State Property Committee, Ministry of Agriculture, Banking Sector
Poverty:                    Not applicable
Amount:                     SDR 3.4 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard IDA terms, repayable over forty years
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign        Total
-------------US$ million equivalent----------
IDA                              -            5.0          5.0
Government                      0.5           -            0.5
TOTAL                           0.5           5.0          5.5






REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Technical Annex
1. Background
1.           Landlocked Tajikistan, which declared independence from the former Soviet Union
(FSU) in September 1991, shares borders with Uzbekistan, the Kyrgyz Republic, China and
Afghanistan. About six million people occupy the country's 143,000 sq.kms. Tajikistan's territory
is mountainous; 7 percent of its land is arable; of this, 85 percent is irrigated. A system of glacier-
fed rivers provides 3,900 megawatts of hydroelectric power. Tajikistan is the poorest of the FSU
republics, with a per capita income estimated at US$ 350 in 1994, and now probably even lower.
2.            The highly mechanized and irrigated agricultural sector accounts for 25 percent of
output and 50 percent of employment, a higher share than in most FSU republics. Almost seventy
percent of the population lives in rural areas. The main agricultural products are cotton, silk, fruits
and vegetables. Nevertheless, industry accounts for 35 percent of output, 16 percent of employment
and a large portion of exports and imports. The country has considerable potential in gold and
silver.
3.            Tajikistan has been wracked by political instability and civil war since its
independence. The collapse of the trade and payments system among the FSU countries triggered
a precipitous decline in output. Industrial and agricultural enterprises operate far below capacity
because fuel and other essential imports are in short supply. Civil war, floods and mudslides took
more than 50,000 lives, displaced 850,000 persons and inflicted extensive damage on the country's
infrastructure. These external shocks further contributed to an unprecedented output drop, loss of
control over the state budget, rampant inflation, widening current account deficits and an explosive
buildup of external debt.
4.            Between 1991 and 1995, output fell about 60 percent, with agriculture and industry
most affected. In 1995, real output plummeted by 13 percent. Since the majority of the population
resides in rural areas, the plecipitous decline in agricultural output has severely depressed living
standards throughout the country.
5.            Considerable dependence on transfers from Moscow during the Soviet era has meant
that both the state budget and current account deficits have been unsustainably large. Budget deficits
on an accrual basis averaged over 27 percent of GDP during the period 1992-94. For 1995, the
deficit on an accrual basis declined to about 11 percent of GDP. Although tax revenue collection
in the fourth quarter of 1995 was more than expected, the decline was due largely to expenditure
reduction and was financed through accumulation of arrears (including unpaid wages) and expansion
of domestic bank credit. Tajikistan's inflation reached 2,200 percent in 1993, 350 percent in 1994
and 600 percent in 1995.
6.            The civil war (which necessitated an increase in defense-related imports) and the
output decline ha.ve caused Tajikistan to depend increasingly on imports and have triggered a
reduction in export volume. The resulting current account deficits were financed primarily by
external borrowing from FSU trading partners. By the end of 1995, Tajikistan had accumulated



-2-
about US$810 million of external debt, over 80 percent of which is owed to the CIS countries,
specifically Russia, Uzbekistan and Kazakstan. External debt payment requirements for 1996 are
estimated at $446 million (for debt service and to clear arrears). Other creditors include the
European Union, Turkey and the United States.
A.  Policy Priorities During Transition
7.            Political conditions were not conducive to economic reform until late 1994. A
constitutional referendum and presidential election were held in November 1994. In December
1994, the Government was restructured and a reform-minded cabinet appointed. Parliamentary
elections took place in February 1995; the April session of Parliament confirmed the President and
the cabinet. Security conditions improved somewhat in 1995. The unrest of late January/early
February 1996 among government forces was settled peacefully. The fifth round of inter-Tajik talks
began in November 1995 and ended in February 1996, with a promise to extend the ceasefire until
May 26, 1996. The Government has, however, reiterated that it will not agree to opposition groups'
demands for constitutional changes and restructuring government agencies.
8.            Since mid-1995, the Government has been engaged in a dialogue with the IMF and
IDA on a program of stabilization and structural reform. The relative improvements in the political
and security conditions have prompted the Government to begin implementing a comprehensive
economic reform program. Having been approved by the November 2, 1995 session of Parliament,
the program is expected to be implemented during 1995-2000. The program's initial stage is
underpinned by an IMF stand-by arrangement, a proposed Agricultural Recovery and Social
Protection (ARSP) Credit and the proposed Institution Building Technical Assistance (IBTA) Credit.
B    Stabilization Program
9.            The principal elements of the Government's stabilization program are: (i) fiscal
adjustment to bring the budget deficit down to about 5 percent of GDP in 1996; (ii) a monetary
program compatible with the fiscal objectives to limit money supply growth; and (iii) reduction of
the inflation rate to 4 percent per month after September 1996. The IMF and the authorities have
agreed on a financial program that will be monitored during January-March 1996. The Fund expects
to submit the stand-by arrangement to its Board in early May 1996.'
C.  Structural Reform Program
10.          Key elements of the Government's structural reform  program  include: (i)
privatization of state-owned enterprises (SOEs); farm restructuring; and (iii) reforming the banking
system, including revising the current legal framework for banks, introducing internationally
accepted accounting and auditing procedures, upgrading bank supervision and regulation, improving
management of liquidity and payments system.
1/ The Structural Transformation Facility (STF), for which Tajikistan would have qualified, lapsed in April
1995.



-3-
11.           Privatization of SOEs. The size and scope of Tajikistan's SOE sector is difficult to
determine, partly because SOEs include not only Republican property (controlled by the central
Government), but also communal property (controlled by local governments). Data on communal
property is decentralized to the regions and no comprehensive, centralized database exists. The best
estimate indicates that there are approximately 9000 state-owned entities, 7000 of which are small-
scale units. Of the estimated 9000 entities, about 50 percent are in wholesale and retail trade, 30
percent are in consumer services, 7 percent are in agriculture, 6 percent in construction and the
remaining 7 percent are in industry and transport.
12.           The privatization program was initiated in 1991 but was interrupted in 1993 due to
the deterioration in the country's security situation.  Following relative restoration of political
stability, momentum was reestablished in late 1994, only to be interrupted again in 1995, in part by
uncertainties created before introducing the national currency. The legal framework has also been
a primary obstacle to rapid privatization in Tajikistan. The 1991 Privatization Law gave the State
Property Committee (SPC) responsibility for privatization of Republican property, while local
governments controlled privatization of municipal (or communal) property. In all cases, the law
granted labor collectives the right to decide whether or not to privatize. Neither the SPC nor local
authorities could set deadlines for the labor collectives to come forward with a privatization
proposal. Furthermore, line ministries (in the case of Republican property) and local governments
(in the case of municipal property) were required to approve the requests submitted by the collectives
before an enterprise could be included in the program. Under this legal framework, SPC lacked the
authority necessary to overcome resistance from line ministries and local governments to accelerate
and expand the scope of privatization. As a result, less than 7 percent of the SOEs were privatized
by the end of 1995.
13.           To address these constraints to effective implementation of the program, the
Government has prepared a set of legislative amendments to the 1991 Privatization Law that should
significantly improve the program's scope, the pace of implementation and the transparency of the
process. Instead of relying on a bottom-up approach initiated by the collectives, the Government
will now select the enterprises to be included in the program. Once an enterprise is selected, the
SPC will set strict deadlines for completing the various stages required to bring it to the point of
sale.  The new  legislative framework also calls for a standardized and simplified valuation
methodology; mandates the Government to prepare time-bound quantitative targets for privatizing
SOEs; and introduces a monthly progress report to the President. The amended law prescribes
standard methods for privatization of SOEs, as follows: (i) for small-scale enterprises (less than 30
employees), through auctions or tenders; (ii) for all remaining enterprises, through transformation
into open joint stock companies and sale of their shares to foreign and domestic investors or through
a mass privatization program within one year of transformation; (iii) for unfinished construction
projects and non-profitable enterprises, through tenders. and, (iv) for the assets of liquidated
enterprises, through sale on a proposed "Republican Real Estate Exchange."
14.            These amendments to the 1991 Privatization Law were approved by Parliament on
November 2, 1995, and new program implementation began earl, in 1996. Some of the ministries
and government agencies, however, have not yet complied with Government Decree 543, which
established a deadline of October 20. 1995 for submission of sector-specific lists of enterprises to
be privatized and converted to Joint Stock Companies. Also, a clear decision has not yet been made
concerning the proportions of enterprise shares designated for privatization through management-
employee buy-outs, share auctions and tenders.  The Government plans to remove current



-4-
impediments and significantly accelerate implementation of the 1996 privatization program. It also
intends to lay sound foundations for the policy, legal and institutional aspects of the program and
to enhance the SPC's institutional capacity to significantly strengthen its independent implementation
and monitoring capacities.
15.           Farm Restructuring. Tajikistan's agricultural sector is dominated by large-scale state
and collective farms. As of 1993, approximately 600 state and collective farms cultivated nearly
all Tajikistan's arable land. Less than 10 percent of arable land (about 75,000 hectares) was
allocated to private household plots on state and collective farms. Despite the disparity in land
allocation, private household plots account for about 30 percent of the value of agricultural
production, while state and collective farms account for about 70 percent. Because of insufficient
arable land, agricultural growth will mainly depend upon increasing the efficiency and intensification
of land use.  Recognizing this, the Government has emphasized the importance of a farm
restructuring program and is in the early stages of its implementation. The program aims at
eliminating most state farms by converting them into collective farms and transforming collective
farms into small-scale farms operated by individuals or groups. Between late 1994 and July 1995,
the number of private leasehold farms increased from 600 to 1500. Although Tajikistan's farm
restructuring program contains several positive elements, certain aspects jeopardize the program's
effectiveness and sustainability. These include lack of: (i) transparency in the selection criteria for
leaseholders, (ii) provision for collective farm members who do not receive leases; and (iii)
availability of an exit mechanism from the lease. The Government is revising its farm restructuring
program to address these issues.
16.           Financial Sector. The Tajik financial sector has been faced with several obstacles
in recent years due to high inflation, uncertainty regarding the legal tender prior to introduction of
the Tajik ruble in May 1995 and political uncertainty caused by civil unrest. The Tajik authorities
and senior bank management are eager to reform the banking system, but in many vital areas they
lack the technical expertise necessary for the task. The need to upgrade technical skills within the
financial sector has been accentuated by the social upheaval of recent years, since one consequence
of the unrest has been the emigration of qualified Russian staff, who contributed significantly to this
sector.
17.           The Tajik financial sector is still organized along the traditional Soviet model of
sectoral banks. Four sectoral banks for industry (Orienbank), agriculture (Agroprombank Shark),
trade and light industry (Tajikbankbusiness) and trade (Tajvnesheconombank) still dominate banking
activities in Tajikistan. The majority of the remaining banks represent a second layer of state-owned
banks. Credit is still allocated administratively by the authorities, in the form of directed credits and
a credit ceiling imposed on the banks.
18.           The legal framework for the National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT) and the commercial
banks is established by the Law on the National Bank (February 1991) and the Law on Banks and
Banking Activity (December 1993). These laws lay the foundation for a two-tier banking system
but are not suitable for a market-based banking system. The NBT is aware of serious weaknesses
in the current legal framework. New laws are currently being drafted and the NBT plans to submit
them for consideration by Parliament during 1996.
19.           The current accounting and auditing framework in Tajik banks gives little insight into
their true financial condition. The accounting system is still predominantly based on the banks' role



-5-
as fiscal agents in channelling government funds, rather than as independent and responsible financial
entities.
20.           Supervision and inspection of the Tajik banking system is currently carried out by
a staff of 16, most of whom are new to this area. Bank supervision focuses largely on observing
economic normatives. Though sanctions are applied if banks do not observe these normatives, 9 out
of 14 Tajik banks currently violate them. The NBT's inspection department, which was not created
until July 1995, takes a control-oriented role. It checks the authenticity of data submitted by banks
to the NBT and reviews the banks' credit policies, repayment history on outstanding credit and the
structure of their assets and liabilities. At present, the inspection department visits only one bank
a month.
21.           The Tajik payments system is based on courier transport and manual processing of
clearing documents and payments. All interbank settlement takes place through NBT branches and
the process is slow. The settlement of payments in different regions takes up to 7 working days.
Some modem-based reporting has been introduced to communicate correspondent balances. Banks
are, however, still required to have positive end-of-day balances on their correspondent accounts
with the NBT on a region-by-region basis.
22.          Institutional Capacity. Tajikistan faces significant difficulties in formulating and
implementing economic reforms. Civil war and political unrest have led to an exodus of about half
a million skilled employees in Tajikistan's ministries, agencies, banking system and enterprises.
This departure has put substantial pressures on the country's capacity to absorb and implement
reforms. In many cases, the remaining public sector staff, though well-educated, are unfamiliar with
market economy concepts and practices. Government employees are being asked to quickly design
and implement a comprehensive market-oriented reform program in a number of areas in which they
have no background, experience or training. The Government has recognized the importance of
obtaining technical assistance and expertise to develop and implement its economic reform program.



-6-
II. The Project
A.   Project Objectives
23.            In the short term, the proposed project will help meet skill shortages to develop and
carry out reform programs in priority areas of privatization and the financial sector. In the long run,
it will help strengthen the country's institutional capacity to sustain reform in these areas.
B.   Project Description
24.           The proposed project aims to address urgent technical assistance requirements in the
following core areas: (i) privatization of SOEs; (ii) farm restructuring and demonopolization of
cotton marketing authority and (iii) financial sector reform. The proposed project will provide
advisory services, training and office equipment to the SPC, the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA),
the NBT and commercial banks. These components are elaborated below and tentative numbers and
employment period for essential personnel, training program and office equipment are mentioned
under each sub-component.
(i)      Privatization Assistance
25.           Privatization assistance will support the Government's reform program by providing
technical assistance, training and office equipment to develop and implement appropriate mechanisms
for a swift and wide-ranging privatization program. Proposed assistance for privatization includes
assistance to: (1) the SPC and (2) the MOA.
26.           Technical Assistance to the SPC. The proposed project provides financing for
consultants, training and office equipment to assist in preparation and implementation of a
comprehensive privatization program. The proposed SPC's technical assistance is comprised of
design and implementation assistance in the following four sub-components: (a) privatization of small
enterprises; (b) privatization of medium and large enterprises; (c) mass privatization; and (d) public
information in support of privatization. Technical assistance to SPC in support of privatization will
be sequenced to meet its priority needs. First, two short-term policy/legal advisors, funded by
UNDP (see paragraph 41), have been placed in SPC from January 1996 until June 1996. They are
helping SPC establish the policy and legal foundations of the accelerated program prior to arrival
of the IDA-funded consultants. Second, the IDA-funded consultants assisting with privatization of
small and medium-scale enterprises (Sub-Components 1 and 2, respectively) will be fielded.
Initiating auctions of small-scale enterprises will be the main priority, while preparatory work
(corporatization) begins on medium and large enterprises. Third, public information consultants
(Sub-Component 4) and consultants assisting with mass privatization (Sub-Component 3) will begin
their work. Training will be an on-going activity of each sub-component throughout the project.
27.           Sub-Component 1: Privatization of Small Enterprises ($US 329.000). Consultants,
training and office equipment will be financed to support preparation and implementation of an
accelerated small-scale privatization program. It will include assistance to establish a database of
all small-scale properties, prepare time-bound privatization programs for 1996 and 1997 and develop
simple valuation and auction mechanisms to help ensure that the annual programs' targets are met.
The proposed technical assistance for privatization of small enterprises includes a Privatization



-7-
Advisor for about 9 months, 10 Local Consultants (12 months each), 2 seminars in Tajikistan (10
days and 40 trainees each) for central and regional SPC staff on the practical application of auctions
and some office equipment (see Annex 1 for Terms of Reference of consultants and training program
and Annex 13 for details of office equipment).
28.           Sub-Component 2: Privatization of Medium and Large Enterprises ($US 779.000).
A team of foreign and local consultants, training and office equipment will be financed to assist SPC
in preparing and implementing a comprehensive privatization program for medium-and large-scale
enterprises. The consultants will help SPC establish a management information system to reliably
monitor program implementation and complete all steps necessary to prepare enterprises targeted for
privatization (including enterprise registration, development of a simplified valuation methodology,
design of a sound legal and operational framework for investment funds, corporatization and
development of simplified auction mechanisms). The consultants will assist SPC in implementing
auctions for a significant number of participating enterprises. The proposed technical assistance will
include a Privatization Advisor/Team Leader for 9 months, a Financial Specialist for 3 months, a
Legal Advisor for 2 months and a Privatization Specialist for 6 months. In addition, 10 Local
Valuation Consultants (18 months each) and 5 Local Privatization Consultants (24 months each) will
be employed under the proposed project. Two months of training in Tajikistan, covering four
programs, are envisioned in computer application, corporatization, share registration and share
auctions. Three study tours each for 2 SPC staff, as well as adequate office equipment, will be
financed under the proposed sub-component (see Annex 2 for Terms of Reference of consultants and
training program and Annex 13 for details of office equipment).
29.           Sub-Component 3:  Design and Implementation of Mass Privatization ($US
425,000). Technical assistance will be available for preparation and implementation of a possible
mass privatization program. Should the Government decide to pursue this option, the consultants
will be expected to expand the scope of their activities and augment the size of their team to carry
out this sub-component. (Most of the enterprise-level preparatory work will be provided for under
Sub-Component 2.) Foreign expertise, local consultants and office equipment will be provided to
assist SPC to establish policy actions for the program, develop the legal, institutional and operational
framework and implement voucher auctions for the initial wave of participating enterprises. The
proposed technical assistance will include a Team Leader for 3 months, a Mass Privatization
Specialist for 6 months and a Legal Advisor for 1 month. In addition, 4 Local Consultants (24
months each) and 10 Local Data Entry Clerks (2 month each) will be employed under the proposed
sub-component. In addition to the on-the-job training, two months of training will cover a policy
seminar and a workshop on implementation of mass privatization. Adequate office equipment will
be provided under the sub-component (see Annex 3 for Terms of Reference of consultants and
training program and Annex 13 for details of office equipment).
30.           Sub-Component 4:  Public Information ($US 224,000).  Reliable and timely
information on the privatization program's nature, objectives and opportunities for the general public
to participate in the privatization process form an essential element of SPC's privatization assistance.
The proposed assistance under this sub-component is key to building support for privatization (and
the overall reform program) and ensuring its sustainability. Short-term public relations specialists
will be provided to assess public knowledge and perceptions of the benefits of privatization of SOEs,
develop and implement a comprehensive national information strategy through a variety of media
and organize special events, such as seminars and public exhibitions. The proposed technical
assistance will include a Team Leader (4 months), a Public Relation Specialist (4 months), one Local



-8-
Consultant for 9 months, 4 local Survey Consultants (2 months each) and a contribution of $20,000
to the Media Costs (TV, Radio and Print) (see Annex 4 for Terms of Reference of the consultants).
31.           Technical Assistance to the MOA. This component will support the Government's
reform program in the agricultural sector and includes: (a) design and implementation of a strategy
for demonopolizing the state cotton marketing authority (Glavchlopkoprom) and its ginneries; (b)
preparation and implementation of a farm restructuring program; and (c) training MOA staff in all
aspects of farm restructuring and demonopolization of the state cotton marketing entity.
32.           Sub-Component 5: Design and implementation of a strategy for demonopolizing the
state cotton marketing entity and its ginneries ($US 107,000). The main objective of this sub-
component is to identify options for modifying the legal framework in cotton processing and
marketing and assess the efficiency of the cotton marketing entity. Consultants will identify options
for the role and operation of the cotton marketing entity and its ginneries, provide alternatives for
remedying the weaknesses of the cotton sector and prepare an implementation plan for
demonopolizing the state cotton marketing entity. The proposed technical assistance will include a
Cotton Sector Specialist (4 months), 3 Local Consultants (4 months each) and one month of training
in Tajikistan (see Annex 5 for Terms of Reference).
33.           Sub-Component 6: Preparation and implementation of a farm restructuring program
($US 584,000). Consultants will help propose changes in the existing laws necessary to ensure
secure land access rights and full transferability of access rights for individual leasing land, assess
development of a land registry program so that those with land access rights can use these rights as
collateral and specify implementation mechanisms for the farm  restructuring program.  The
consultants will also assist in designing a methodology to develop voluntary farmer associations.
The proposed technical assistance will include one Land Reform Specialist (12 months), one
Agricultural Services Specialist (12 months) and 8 Local Consultants (24 months each). In addition,
adequate office equipment will be provided under this sub-component (see Annex 6 for Terms of
Reference of consultants and Annex 13 for details of office equipment).
(ii)    Financial Sector Assistance
34.           The major objective of technical assistance in the financial sector is to help upgrade
a number of key operations crucial for the reform of banking system. The proposed component will
provide technical assistance, office equipment and training to the NBT and other banks to facilitate
transition toward a market-based banking system. The resulting improvement in the banking
system's institutional capacity will be a prerequisite to its opening to competition from new domestic
and international private banks. The proposed technical assistance under this component will be
closely coordinated with assistance from IMF and will consist of the following sub-components: (a)
legal framework; (b) accounting and auditing procedures; (c) audit reports; (d) prudential norms and
banking supervision; and (e) payments system.
35.           Sub-Component 7: Legal framework ($US 118,000). Consultants under this sub-
component will assist in re-drafting the present law on banks and banking activity and review laws
in the areas of licensing process, prudential regulatory framework and accounting and reporting
requirements. This will ensure that the banking law defines banks and banking operations consistent
with international practice.  Technical assistance under this sub-component will be closely



-9-
coordinated with the legal assistance provided by the IMF, to ensure consistency between the revised
legal framework for banks and the revised law for the NBT. The proposed technical assistance will
include one Legal Advisor (3 months) and 2 Local Consultants (12 months each). In addition, two
seminars in Tajikistan each for 10 days, and adequate office equipment will be provided under the
proposed technical assistance (see Annex 7 for the Terms of Reference for consultants and Annex
13 for details of equipment).
36.          Sub-Component 8: Accounting and Auditing Reforms ($US 983,000). The main
objective of this sub-component is to revise the current accounting system in the banking sector,
which is based on principles inherited from the command economy. Consultants will prepare and
introduce completely revised accounting procedures, based on International Accounting Standards
(lAS), enable the banks to carry out meaningful audits and enhance transparency in the financial
positions of banks. Revised accounting is also a prerequisite for introducing a more meaningful set
of prudential norms and improving banking supervision. The proposed technical assistance will
include 2 Accounting Experts (15 months each) and 10 Local Consultants (15 months each). In
addition to on-the-job training, two months of formal training, in the form of workshops and
seminars, will cover various aspects of the new accounting system. Adequate office equipment will
be financed under the sub-component (see Annex 8 for Terms of Reference of consultants and Annex
13 for details of equipment).
37.          Sub-Component 9: Bank Audit Reports ($US 530,000). This sub-component will
assist in preparing audit reports for the four large sectoral banks once the accounting system
according to IAS is in place. Its main purpose will be for the auditors to review the structures and
operations of these banks and make recommendations for moving toward a market-based banking
system. The proposed technical assistance will include 4 Expatriate Consultants (5 months each),
4 Local Consultants (5 months each) and one month of training in Tajikistan (see Annex 9 for Terms
of Reference of consultant).
38.          Sub-Component 10: Bank Supervision and Regulation ($US 303,000). Improving
bank supervision, training NBT staff in off- and on-site supervision and re-designing and
implementing prudential norms will be financed under this sub-component. The proposed technical
assistance will finance one Expatriate Consultant (4.5 months), four Local Consultants (14 months
each), 2.5 months training in Tajikistan and the necessary office equipment (see Annex 10 for Terms
of Reference of consultants and Annex 13 for details of equipment).
39.          Sub-Component I 1: Payments System ($US 189,000). Financing a feasibility study
describing the current payments system and introducing an efficient payments system commensurate
with market-based banking will be provided under this sub-component. The study will define
methods to reduce or eliminate payments and settlement risks and establish ways for clearing both
small and large payments. The proposed study will also define hardware and software needs,
estimate costs and suggest an implementation strategy. The proposed sub-component will include
one Expatriate Consultant (6 months), 4 Local Consultants (6 months each) and 1.5 months of
training (see Annex 11 for Terms of Reference).
40.           Sequencing financial sector assistance The legal and accounting frameworks, as well
as the audit reports of banks, will precede assistance designed to improve NBT's prudential and
regulatory skills and to upgrade the payments system.



-10-
41.           Coordination with other donors. The IDA will closely coordinate the proposed
technical assistance to SPC, MOA and the banking sector with other donors. Given the SPC's
urgent need for support in implementing the accelerated privatization program, two short-term
privatization policy advisors financed by UNDP are assisting the SPC before the consultants under
the proposed project begin to work in Tajikistan. For privatization and banking system reform to
be successful, a sound legal environment must be established, particularly in the areas of property
rights, contracts, bankruptcy and promotion of competition. The Government has requested the
World Bank to seek additional funding for technical assistance to support private sector development.
The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) has agreed in principle to finance technical
assistance for private sector development activities.
III. Project Costs, Financing, Procurement and Disbursements
42.           Project Costs and Financing. Total project costs are estimated to amount to US$5.5
million, of which foreign exchange costs are calculated at US$5.0 million, or 90 percent of the total.
Local costs have been estimated on the basis of current and foreseeable salary and accommodation
needs. Unit costs of advisory and consultant services, training and office equipment are based on
rates quoted for equivalent services in other FSU republics, with adjustments where necessary for
Tajikistan's special circumstances. The estimates include price contingencies amounting to about
10 percent of total costs, based on estimated international prices for consulting contracts over the
planned 4-year implementation period.
43.           All office equipment, installation and foreign consultant costs that would be exempt
from any taxes or duties would be met from the proposed IDA Credit. In addition, the Credit would
finance the salaries of local consultants and meet foreign and specified national training costs. The
main Government contributions would be in the form of support services, secondment of staff and
physical facilities, and have been determined according to the beneficiary agencies' capacity and the
specific nature of each sub-component. The Association would thus finance 100 percent of foreign
exchange costs and 90 percent of total project costs. The Project Cost and Financing Plan is
summarized in Schedule A.
44.          Institutional Arrangements for Project Coordination and Implementation. The project
will be implemented over a 4-year period in accordance with the project description in Part 11 (B)
and the implementation plan in Schedule D.  Responsibility for project coordination and
implementation will be vested in the Office of the Prime Minister.
45.           Proiect Implementation.   To coordinate and ensure efficient and timely
implementation of the proposed project, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been created in
the office of Prime Minister.  To facilitate early initiation of the project, PIU has hired a
procurement advisor under a Netherlands Trust Fund grant to help and train the beneficiary
agencies-- the MOA, SPC and the banking sector (including the NBT and other banks)-- on all
procurement procedures, including selection of consultants and purchase of equipment according to
World Bank Procurement Guidelines. The Terms of Reference for the procurement advisor is
presented in Annex 12. Beneficiary agencies are supported by the procurement advisor, their
representatives in the PIU and local staff, with well-defined responsibilities to assist implementation
of their respective technical assistance components.



-11-
46.           Effective project implementation calls for the PIU, with cooperation from the
procurement advisor, to help: (i) coordinate actions with the beneficiary agencies and ensure timely
implementation of all phases of project activity; (ii) advise beneficiary agencies on World Bank
methods and procedures to select consultants and procure equipment financed under the proposed
project, including assistance to prepare bidding documents and other related matters; (iii) manage
in bid openings, including evaluation and recommendation for awarding contracts; (iv) ensure that
proposed contract awards meet the proposed projects' criteria and objectives; (v) monitor overall
progress in project implementation; (vi) administer a Special Account and manage overall accounting
and auditing of the project; and (vii) prepare detailed progress reports and a project completion
report.
47.           The designated representatives from the beneficiary agencies include the Deputy
Chairman of the SPC, the first Deputy of the MOA and the Deputy Chairman of the NBT, with
well-defined responsibilities to implement their relevant technical assistance components. The
representatives will closely coordinate their activities with consultants provided by other donors, with
the PIU Director and Deputy Director and the procurement advisor.  Directed by the Prime
Minister's Advisor, who has also been designated as project counterpart, PIU will provide assistance
to implement the proposed project throughout the project's duration and will be responsible for
coordinating all aspects of project implementation.
48.           To help the Government initiate the project without delay and implement it
effectively, the Association will organize a project launch workshop, after Credit approval, at which
a team consisting of the task manager, a procurement specialist and component specialists, will fully
review implementation procedures and requirements. At this stage, the criteria for trainee selection
and short lists of consultants will be approved. The list of trainees will be finalized prior to the
mobilization of consultants for each sub-component and the necessary office space and facilities will
be made available. Bi-annual supervision missions would follow, with a mid-term review 24 months
after effectiveness. Additional technical assistance requirements may be identified in this process.
To allow the project to finance studies, activities and other inputs as need arises, $US 231,000 has
been reserved. The Supervision Plan is shown in Schedule F. The inputs process, output and
impact indicators are presented in Schedule G.
49.           Procurement. The Government has requested an IDF grant to cover part of the cost
for preparing and introducing the legal and institutional framework for public procurement reform.
The request is being considered by the Bank for extending an IDF grant for US$178,000. The
procurement advisor assigned under this operation will work with the PIU and train local staff in
IDA procurement procedures and will assist on public procurement reform to be initiated under the
proposed IDF grant.
50.           Under this Credit, provision is made for consultant services, training and office
equipment and related services, including hardware and software to be procured in accordance with
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank as Executing Agency," published by
the Bank in August 1981 (The Consultant Guidelines) and "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits." published by the Bank in January 1995 (The Guidelines). Project
components, estimated costs and procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table
and set out in detail in Schedule E.



-12-
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(thousands in U.S. dollars)
Procurement Method
Project Element                   IS           Other                          Total
Goods                                  300a'                                             300
Computers and related             (300)                                             (300)
equipment
Consultancy, Other Technical
Expert Assistance and Training        --              47001b                            4700
(4700)                           (4700)
Total                                  300            4700                              5000
(300)          (4700)                           (5000)
Note: Numbers in parentheses are amounts to be financed by IDA.
a/ International Shopping
b/ Consultant Services, according to "The Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank as Executing Agency,"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
51.            To minimize the number of contracts and reduce unit costs, equipment and materials
to be financed under the Credit will be combined into substantial packages to the extent practicable.
Contracts estimated to cost under US$300,000 will be procured through international shopping,
based on at least 3 quotations from two eligible countries, with the proviso that the aggregate amount
of goods procured through international shopping may not exceed US$ 300,000.
52.            Firms and individuals will be selected for consultant assignments in accordance with
the Bank's Consultant Guidelines. Consulting assignments based on shortlisted firms shall be
selected for a total amount of US$4.329 million in four contracts consisting of: (i) privatization
assistance to SPC; (ii) privatization assistance to MOA; (iii) assistance in legal, accounting and audit
reports; and (iv) assistance in bank supervision and payment system.  Individual consultants
(aggregate value of US$0.371 million) shall be appointed for short-term assignments in project



-13-
implementation and to provide other technical assistance as needed. The terms of reference for all
assignments would be subject to the Association's prior review.
53.           Association Review. Procurement arrangements require special attention because
agencies in FSU republics have limited knowledge of international commercial practices, including
Bank procedures. For this reason, all procurement activities are to be coordinated by the PIU,
assisted by the procurement advisor assigned to the project. Special emphasis has been placed on
the design of a project launch seminar, planned after Board approval of the project to ensure that
IDA procurement procedures are fully understood by the beneficiary agencies. The first two
contacts under international shopping and documentation for contracts valued at US$100,000 or more
for consultant firms, and at US$50,000 or more for individual consultants, as well as single source
contracts would be subject to prior review and approval by the Association. All other contracts
would be subject to selective ex-post reviews. A General Procurement Notice was issued before
project's negotiation.
54.           Procurement Monitoring. Information on procurement would be collected and
recorded to provide: (i) prompt reporting of contract awards by the Borrower; (ii) full quarterly
reports to the Association; and (iii) changes in procurement schedules, including advertising,
bidding, contract awards and completion dates.
55.           Disbursement. The Credit would finance: (i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures
of imported goods, up to 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory costs) and up to 75 percent
of costs of other items obtained locally; and (ii) 100 percent, excluding any taxes, of consultant
services and agreed training costs. The disbursement profile is included in Schedule B. Withdrawal
applications will be fully documented, except for expenditures against contracts of under US$50,000,
which will be based on certified statements detailing the individual transactions. Documentation
supporting these expenditures will be held by the PIU for at least one year after receipt of the audit
report by the Association for the year in which the last disbursement is made and will be made
available for review by the auditors (see para. 60 below) and to the Association on request. The
project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2000, with a closing date for the credit on
December 31, 2000.
56.           A Special Account would be established at the NBT to facilitate the disbursement
of funds. The authorized allocation to this account would be US$0.2 million, with an initial deposit
of US$0. 1 million, to be increased once a disbursement of US$0.5 million is reached. The account
would be opened in the name of the Borrower and administered by PIU authorized representatives.
The PIU would make requests for replenishment on a quarterly basis, or more often if necessary.
Monthly bank statements for the Special Account, reconciled by the Borrower, would accompany
all replenishment requests.



-14-
IV. Project Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing
57.           Accounting. The Borrower would be responsible for the appropriate accounting of
the funds provided by IDA under the Credit, for reporting on the use of these funds and for ensuring
timely submission of audits of financial statements and reports to the Association.
58.           The PIU, on behalf of the Borrower, would establish an accounting system to
provide information on the proper receipt and use of funds furnished in accordance with the Credit
Agreement. Accounting for all Special Account transactions and all other project accounts will be
maintained in accordance with practices and standards satisfactory to the Association, with the
objective of timely and accurate accounting of all transactions under the Credit.
59.           Financial Reporting.   Financial reporting would be geared to the specific
requirements of the Credit and would include a full statement of receipts and payments from the
project's inception. Reporting would be in accordance with disbursements classified and reported
under the expenditure categories agreed to by the Borrower and specified in the Credit Agreement.
The PIU would submit quarterly financial progress reports, including a separate report for the
Special Account. A Project Completion Report would be submitted to the Association by the PIU
promptly after the conclusion of project activity, and in any event not later than 6 months after the
Credit closing date.
60.           Auditing. A key condition of the Credit would be that financial statements and
reports on the proceeds, including funds channelled through the Special Account, are audited in
accordance with internationally accepted standards by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association. The selected auditors are to be: (a) impartial and independent from the entity to be
audited; (b) well-established and reputable; (c) experienced in the type of assignment to be
undertaken; and (d) able to fulfil the terms of reference within the stated timetable.
V. Environmental Aspects
61.           This project, providing technical assistance and utilizing existing physical facilities,
will have no negative environmental impact and has therefore been placed within category C under
Operational Directive 4.01 on Environmental Assessments.



-15-
ANNEX 1
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT OF PRIVATIZATION
Sub-component 1: Design and Implementation Assistance
for Privatization of Small Enterprises
Objectives
1.           Privatization of small-scale enterprises is a high priority, not only because the
number of such entities is substantial and will absorb a significant proportion of SPC (State Property
Committee) time and resources, but also because small enterprises are expected to be a primary
source of employment and job creation throughout the economy. Therefore, this sub-component's
objectives are to assist SPC to quickly catalog small-scale properties, prepare a time-bound program
for their rapid transfer to private ownership through a simple, open and transparent auction
mechanism, and reliably monitor the progress of their transfer.
2.           The expatriate consultants responsible for this sub-component will train a team of
local consultants in data collection, database management, auction procedures and auditing and
methods of monitoring overall program implementation. These local consultants would then be
expected to provide training and logistical support to staff of local SPC offices, who will be
responsible for organizing and carrying out auctions and monitoring program implementation.
Activities and Outputs
3.           The consultants will undertake activities and deliver outputs as follows:
(i)    Propose amendments to the legislative framework and normative documents
(such as implementing regulations, guidelines and administrative orders) to
ensure accelerated implementation of small-scale privatization and assist
SPC in drafting such amendments;
(ii)    Assist SPC  in documenting the universe of small-scale state-owned
enterprises at the Republican and municipal levels, assist in the design,
installation and maintenance of a central management information system to
reliably monitor progress of privatization of small-scale enterprises by
region and sector, and assess data collection capabilities and requirements
of local SPC offices necessary to maintain the central database;
(iii)   Assist SPC in preparing a time-bound program (by region) for accelerated
sale of small-scale Republican and municipal entities;
(iv)   Develop detailed guidelines and procedures for simple auction mechanisms
to facilitate rapid sale of small-scale entities and provide direct assistance in



-16-
implementing auctions for a number of targeted enterprises (agreed with
SPC and the World Bank);
(v)    Assist SPC in developing simplified methods of valuation for small-scale
entities;
(vi)    Develop the procedures to privatize small-scale entities that are part of
larger enterprises (such as transport and catering sub-divisions); and
(vii)   Develop the procedures to divest to the local authorities the social assets of
enterprises that cannot be immediately privatized (such as housing, clinics,
etc.).
Training
4.            The consultants will organize and conduct two seminars (ten days, 40 trainees each)
for local consultants, central and regional SPC staff on the practical application of auctions. This
training will cover issues such as advertisement of auctions, deposit documentation, bidder
registration, conduct and auditing of the auction, standardized sales contract and accounting of
payments.
Contract Arrangements
5.            Prior to issue of invitation to bid, the Sub-Component Beneficiary Agencies, in
consultation with IDA, will review the TOR and include such details as the recruitment of local
consultants, the duration of assignments, counterparts, required qualification, experience and
background and language proficiency. The TOR will also indicate assistance to be provided to the
consultants, such as:
(i)    administrative assistance in obtaining visas, custom clearance and any other
administrative permits required by the consultants in the performance of the
assignment;
(ii)    existing data, maps, studies;
(iii)   office space, secretarial and other staff in Dushanbe;
(iv)   transport;
(v)    liaison with Government and local bodies; and
(vi)   any other assistance not readily available that the Consultants may
reasonably request.



-17-
ANNEX 2
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT OF PRIVATIZATION
Sub-Component 2: Design and Implementation Assistance
for Privatization of Medium and Large Enterprises
Obiectives
1.           The State Property Committee (SPC) estimates the number of medium- and large-
scale state-owned enterprises (SOEs) at two to three thousand; the majority of these will be subject
to privatization. The preparatory steps required to bring these SOEs to the point of sale are complex
and time-consuming and require careful planning. SPC currently lacks the skills and experience to
undertake this task without external assistance. The consulting team will be expected to assist SPC
in laying the groundwork for program implementation, provide on-the-job and formal training to
central and local SPC staff in each of the required steps, and assist in program implementation for
a significant number of the participating enterprises. In addition, policy development will form an
important element of the consultants' work program, particularly during the contract's initial phase.
Upon departure of the consultants, SPC is expected to be capable of independently carrying out the
program to its conclusion.
2.            The consultants will assist SPC to establish a database of medium and large SOEs,
develop efficient procedures for enterprise registration, establish the legal and financial foundations
of enterprise corporatization and provide direct assistance in corporatizing enterprises to be
privatized, prepare a sound legal, operational and regulatory framework for investment funds, and
organize and conduct share auctions.
Activities and Outputs
3.           The consultants will undertake activities and deliver outputs as follows:
(a)    Establishment of Database on Medium- and Large-Scale Enterprises
(i)    Review and recommend alterations (as necessary) to the Govermnent's
criteria for classifying enterprises as small, medium and large;
(ii)    Document the universe of medium- and large-scale state-owned enterprises
at the Republican and municipal levels, assist in the design, installation and
maintenance of a central management information system to reliably monitor
progress of privatization of medium- and large-scale enterprises by region
and sector, and assess data collection capabilities and requirements of local
SPC offices necessary to maintain the central database.



-18-
(b)    Establishment of a Central Share Registry and Depository
(i)    Review current share registration arrangements for enterprises and assess the
possibility of establishing a Central Share Registry and Share Depository
and review the need for regional registry offices, as well as their functions
and linkages with the Central Share Registry;
(ii)    Draft legal framework and develop the normative documents, organizational
structure, staffing requirements, internal procedures, and specifications for
needed software and hardware for the Central Share Registry and
Depository; and
(iii)   Draft founding documents for the Central Share Registry and Depository
and assist in their establishment.
(c)    Legal Basis for Corporatization
(i)    Review  current enterprise registration arrangements and recommend
alterations (as necessary) to improve this system;
(ii)    Review  and strengthen the policy and mandatory guidelines on the
appointment, institutional affiliation and qualification of members of Board
of Directors of corporatized enterprises;
(iii)   In collaboration with the Legal Provision for Economic Reforms Department
of the Ministry of Economy and the legal advisor working under the Private
Sector Development, review and propose amendments (as necessary) to the
laws on Enterprises, Entrepreneurship, Enterprise Registration, Joint Stock
Companies and Securities and Stock Exchanges; and
(iv)    Review and refine (as necessary) the standard company charters for different
legal forms of companies.
(d)    Actual Incorporation of Enterprises
(i)    Review and improve (if necessary) the guidelines, standard documents, etc.,
for the employee share purchase scheme;
(ii)   In collaboration with the Center for Valuation of State Property, review the
valuation methodology applied to medium and large enterprises and assist
in introducing a simplified valuation methodology, conduct valuations for
a limited number of enterprises requiring valuation methodologies outside
the standard, simplified methodology, and assess the Center's staffing and
equipment requirements necessary to carry out an accelerated privatization
program;



-19-
(iii)   Provide practical assistance in planning, supervising, and implementing the
incorporation of medium and large state-owned enterprises scheduled for
privatization in the auction waves that will occur during 1996 and 1997;
(iv)    Assess current corporatization  status and recommend  alterations (as
necessary), conduct a "spot review" of already corporatized enterprises and
determine steps needed for them to conform to new procedures;
(v)    Strengthen capability of local SPC  offices to assist enterprises with
incorporation procedures; and
(vi)    Clarify and strengthen arrangements for the settlement of disputes between
enterprises, other physical or legal persons and the authorities over the
assignment of assets to the enterprises and over issues relating to registration
and other corporatization matters.
(e)    Establishing the Legal and Operational Framework for Investment Funds
(i)    Advise and assist in establishing the legal and regulatory framework, as well
as disclosure requirements, for investment funds, and assist in establishing
the institutional structures and capabilities for monitoring investment funds
and enforcing pertinent regulations;
(ii)    Advise, upon request, on the assessment of investment fund applications and
recommended actions to enforce regulations; and
(iii)    Assist in monitoring investment funds' provision of information to citizens
on the results of share auctions and on the funds' portfolio, financial
performance and structure.
(f)    Preparation for Share Auctions
(i)    Assist SPC and the Privatization Fund in establishing the infrastructure
necessary to carry out nationwide share auctions (i.e., bid collection centers
and regional and central bid processing centers);
(ii)    Assist SPC in developing the procedures for use of cash, frozen deposits
and wage arrears at auctions;
(iii)    Develop detailed guidelines and procedures for the conduct of nationwide
auctions of shares of medium and large enterprises that ensure an open,
competitive and transparent process;
(iv)    Select enterprises to participate in each auction wave, develop policy and
clear criteria for deciding on the retention of minority shares in state
ownership and on the nature of these shares (i.e., common or preferred),
develop procedures for including state enterprises in any mass privatization



-20-
program, provide policy advice on inclusion of enterprises that have already
been partially privatized, and provide input on decisions regarding share
percentage to be auctioned for each participating enterprise; and
(v)    Develop guidelines and materials for SPC offices and enterprises to
assemble standard information packages about the firms prior to the share
auctions and establish and strengthen structures at the central and local SPC
offices for assisting enterprises in preparing standard information packages
for share auctions.
(g)    Conduct of Share Auctions and Post Auction Activities
(i)    Announce auctions and participating enterprises and dispatch information
packages;
(ii)    Develop guidelines on information to be provided by enterprises to
interested investors and monitor their implementation;
(iii)   Provide on-site monitoring, management support and advice on the conduct
of share auctions; and
(iv)    Advise on disputes arising from share auctions.
TrainiN2
4.            The consultants will implement five training programs under this sub-component:
(i) computer training; (ii) corporatization; (iii) share registration; (iv) share auctions; and (v) study
tours.
(i)    Computer Training:   Nine days of training  will be provided  to
approximately 80 central and regional SPC staff, including those responsible
for small-scale and mass privatization, in addition to senior SPC staff, in
data processing, database management and the local consultants employed
under the sub-component. Four sessions, with 20 participants per session,
will be provided.
(ii)    Corporatization: The consultants will organize and conduct two workshops
(nine days, 40 trainees each) for central and regional SPC staff in the
corporatization process and determination of the ownership structure of
enterprises.  This seminar will address issues such as preparation of
standard company charters and founding documents, issuance and
registration of shares, enterprise registration and appointment of Boards of
Directors.
(iii)   Share Registration: The consultants will provide on-the-job training for 20
staff of the Central Share Registry and its regional offices. Training will
cover internal procedures such as database management, documentation of



-21-
shareholders, share transfers, dividend re-investment and security and
disclosure requirements.
(iv)    Share Auctions: The consultants will organize and conduct two workshops
(nine days, 20 trainees each) and provide on-the-job training for central and
regional SPC staff on the organization and implementation of share auctions.
Training will address issues such as advertisement of auctions, preparation
of enterprise information packages, bid documentation (in cash and/or non-
cash), bid processing, notification of winning bidders, documentation of
payment (for cash bids), cancellation of bid instruments (for non-cash bids)
and announcement of auction results.
(v)    Study Tours: The consultants will organize three study-tours abroad for two
to three senior SPC staff. These study-tours will focus on privatization
techniques and international best practices in privatization.
Contract ArranRzements
5.            Prior to issue of invitation to bid, the Sub-Component Beneficiary Agencies, in
consultation with IDA, will review the TOR and include such details as the recruitment of local
consultants, the duration of assignments, counterparts, required qualification, experience and
background and language proficiency. The TOR will also indicate assistance to be provided to the
consultants, such as:
(i)    administrative assistance in obtaining visas, custom clearance and any other
administrative permits required by the consultants in the performance of the
assignment;
(ii)    existing data, maps, studies;
(iii)   office space, secretarial and other staff in Dushanbe;
(iv)   transport;
(v)    liaison with Government and local bodies; and
(vi)   any other assistance not readily available that the Consultants may
reasonably request.



-22-
ANNEX 3
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT OF PRIVATIZATION
Sub-component 3: Design and Implementation Assistance
for Mass Privatization
Background
1.           The new legislative framework governing privatization provides for introducing a
mass privatization program. The Government has not yet made a decision as to whether such a
program is appropriate for Tajikistan, but financing has been set aside for this component in the
event that the Government determines that mass privatization is necessary and desirable. (The
consultants financed under Privatization Sub-Component 2 of this project would be expected to
expand the scope of their activities and augment the size and composition of their team to service
this Sub-Component; their contract proposals shall reflect this contingency and will be evaluated
accordingly.)
2.            Preparation and design of the privatization program in Tajikistan over the coming
months will also be affected by two other recent developments. First, wages of state employees
went unpaid from end 1993 to May 1995. Second, all Russian ruble bank accounts were frozen in
May 1995 upon introduction of the Tajik ruble. To resolve the debt owed by the state to citizens,
the new legal framework for privatization provides for converting wage arrears and frozen savings
accounts either into cash (at the rate of 1 Tajik ruble for 1,200 Russian rubles), or into "privatization
checks' (at a more favorable rate of exchange of 1:100). The "checks" will be denominated and
freely tradeable and can be used to purchase physical assets, shares of enterprises to be privatized
or placed with an investment fund.
3.            One important technical question remaining is whether there will be sufficient
effective demand for the supply of privatized assets. If all wage arrears and frozen accounts were
converted to "privatization checks", SPC estimates the total value to be no more than 1-3 percent
of the book value of the assets to be privatized. Furthermore, given an unstable macro-economic
environment with high inflation, there is little additional savings available to absorb the volume of
assets to be offered. This raises the question of whether an additional financial instrument (such as
vouchers or special deposit accounts) should be introduced to help absorb the assets supply.
Objectives
4.            As a priority, the consultants assisting State Property Committee (SPC) under
Privatization Sub-Component 2 of the proposed project will assess the need for a mass privatization
program in Tajikistan and advise the Government accordingly, taking into consideration such factors
as: the costs associated with introducing a new instrument; assets supply; the pricing of these assets;
the relationship of mass privatization methods to other sales mechanisms (such as cash auctions and
the role and impact of "privatization checks"); the need for rapid sale of enterprises; the domestic
financial resources available to potential buyers (i.e., effective demand); potential foreign



-23-
investment; equity of existing privatization methods; social conditions; and institutional capabilities.
Based upon this assessment, the consultants should advise SPC on the most appropriate mechanism
or instrument to be introduced, if any. Should a mass privatization program be adopted, the
consultants would be expected to assist SPC to rapidly establish the policy, legal, institutional and
technical foundations of the program and provide direct support in its implementation.
Activities and Outputs
5.             The consultants will undertake activities and deliver outputs as follows:
(i)    Assist SPC in developing program policy and design for mass privatization,
including institutional arrangements, the nature of the specific instrument to
be introduced (e.g., vouchers, special deposit accounts, etc.), procurement
sources for the instrument (if necessary), criteria for who is to receive the
new instrument, denomination or non-denomination of the instrument,
fungibility of the instrument (i.e., tradability, use for purchase of SOE
shares and/or physical assets, use for purchase of investment fund shares,
etc.), and criteria for participating enterprises;
(ii)    Assess the equipment requirements for implementing the mass privatization
program in light of what has been allocated under this sub-component;
(iii)    Advise SPC on methodologies for compiling lists of citizens eligible to
receive  the  mass  privatization  instrument,  provide  assistance  in
computerizing these lists and mechanisms for "cleaning" the database (i.e.,
eliminating double and erroneous entries, etc.), and assist in resolving
logistical problems of data collection, entry and checking of database;
(iv)    Advise SPC on distribution options for the mass privatization instrument
(e.g., through savings banks, post offices, etc.), including security measures
and assist in resolving logistical problems of distribution;
(v)    Assess the possibility of using the national share auction network developed
under item (e) (iii) of Sub-Component 2 to implement nationwide mass
privatization auctions and adapt this network as necessary;
(vi)    Develop the methodology for clearing bids (i.e., establish the rate of
exchange of instruments for shares based upon supply and demand for each
enterprise);
(vii)   Assist SPC in implementing the mass privatization program for a significant
percentage of participating enterprises; and
(viii)   Develop a mechanism for cancelling the instruments.



-24-
Training
6.            Training for mass privatization will involve three components: (i) a policy seminar;
(ii) a workshop on implementation of mass privatization; and (iii) on-the-job training.
(i)    Policy Seminar: The consultants will organize and conduct a three-day
policy seminar on mass privatization for approximately 40 Tajik officials,
including senior SPC staff, members of the cabinet, ministries and
Parliament. This seminar will address issues such as mass privatization
techniques, purpose and objectives of mass privatization, and the role of
public information.
(ii)    Workshop on Implementing Mass Privatization: The consultants will
organize and conduct two workshops (twenty days, 30 trainees each) for
mid-level central and regional SPC staff on implementing mass
privatization. This workshop is intended to familiarize SPC staff with the
organization and implementation procedures of mass privatization auctions,
such as procedures for distributing bid instruments, the bidding network,
receipt and verification of bid documents, processing bid documents,
methodology for calculating auction results, notification of winning bidders,
cancellation of the bid instrument and announcement of auction results.
(iii)   On-the-Job Training: The consultants will conduct on-the-job training for
40 central and regional SPC staff in managing the mass privatization
process.
Contract Arrangements
7.            Prior to issue of invitation to bid, the Sub-Component Beneficiary Agencies, in
consultation with IDA, will review the TOR and include such details as the recruitment of local
consultants, the duration of assignments, counterparts, required qualification, experience and
background and language proficiency. The TOR will also indicate assistance to be provided to the
consultants, such as:
(i)    administrative assistance in obtaining visas, custom clearance and any other
administrative permits required by the Consultants in the performance of the
assignment;
(ii)   existing data, maps, studies;
(iii)   office space, secretarial and other staff in Dushanbe;
(iv)   transport;
(v)    liaison with Government and local bodies; and
(vi)   any other assistance not readily available that the Consultants may
reasonably request.



-25-
ANNEX 4
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT OF PRIVATIZATION
Sub-Component 4: Public Information in Support of Privatization
Objectives
1.           Successful privatization requires that the public be well informed about the objectives
of the privatization program, the nature of the process, the opportunities available and the rules for
participation. This Sub-Component is intended to provide this information to the public and to
identify and correct inevitable misconceptions about the program and process. Consultants will be
provided to assist State Property Committee (SPC) to assess public knowledge of the program,
develop a comprehensive public information strategy and implement that strategy. Of particular
importance is the need to ensure that the public is aware of the introduction of "privatization
checks," who is eligible to receive them, and how, when and where these "checks" are to be used.
Further, this Sub-Component will take on additional importance should the Government decide to
adopt a mass privatization scheme, the successful implementation of which relies, to a large extent,
upon providing accurate and timely information to the public at large.
Activities and Outputs
2.            The consultants working under this Sub-Component will undertake activities and
deliver outputs as follows:
(i)    Develop and implement a public information research and development
program to assess public knowledge and perceptions regarding privatization.
This should include qualitative research (focus groups) and quantitative
research (public opinion surveys). The research should serve both as a basis
for developing a public information strategy and, through regularly
scheduled focus group sessions and periodic surveys, for tailoring the
campaign to improve its effectiveness;
(ii)    Develop and implement a comprehensive national public information
strategy to support the privatization program (including television, radio and
print advertising), oversee and coordinate the design, production and
dissemination (including media buying) of advertising to support the public
information strategy through various media, and oversee and coordinate the
design, production and dissemination of collateral materials (such as posters,
brochures and educational materials); and
(iii)   Organize and help implement special events, such as public exhibitions and
seminars for key public officials, in order to educate the public and major
stakeholders about the privatization process.



-26-
Contract Arrangements
3.             Prior to issue of invitation to bid, the Sub-Component Beneficiary Agencies, in
consultation with IDA, will review the TOR and include such details as the recruitment of local
consultants, the duration of assignments, counterparts, required qualification, experience and
background and language proficiency. The TOR will also indicate assistance to be provided to the
consultants, such as:
(i)    administrative assistance in obtaining visas, custom clearance and any other
administrative permits required by the Consultants in the performance of the
assignment;
(ii)    existing data, maps, studies;
(iii)   office space, secretarial and other staff in Dushanbe;
(iv)   transport;
(v)    liaison with Govermnent and local bodies; and
(vi)   any other assistance not readily available that the Consultants may
reasonably request.



-27-
ANNEX 5
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT OF PRIVATIZATION
Sub-Component 5: Options for the Role and Privatization of Glavchlopkoprom
Objectives
1.           The main objective of this sub-component is to liberalize the public sector's control
of processing and marketing channels. Decontrolling public sector monopolies is not without risks,
foremost of which is that a lack of competition will allow formerly public institutions to operate as
private monopolies. To minimize this risk, the Government plans to conduct a study for the
privatization of the cotton marketing authority (Glavchlopkoprom) and the privatization of the
ginneries currently under the control of the cotton marketing authority.
Activities and Output
2.            The consultants are expected to:
(i)    describe and assess the legal framework and mandate that governs
Glavchlopkoprom;
(ii)   identify options for modifying the legal framework in order to improve the
processing and marketing services available to cotton producers;
(iii)   provide a detailed description of the cotton processing operations of
Glavchlopkoprom, including an assessment of the cost, efficiency, volume
and management of the ginneries Glavchlopkoprom operates;
(iv)   provide a detailed description of Glavchlopkoprom's domestic and
international cotton marketing operations, including an assessment of their
efficiency with respect to optimizing the price received for cotton fiber;
(v)   identify, within the context of liberalized cotton processing and marketing
channels and in the light of international experience in the cotton sector,
options for the role and operation of Glavchlopkoprom. Particular attention
should be paid to the following issues:
(a)   the appropriate size of future operations;
(b)    the appropriate degree of vertical integration for Glavchlopkoprom;
(c)   the ability of Glavchlopkoprom  to compete with private sector
cotton processing/marketing enterprises; and
(d)   the most appropriate mechanisms for financing Glavchlopkoprom
operations.



-28-
(vi)   identify and assess, based on international experience and Tajikistan's
particular circumstances, options for providing research and extension
services to cotton producers (particular attention should be paid to
identifying options for financing these services);
(vii)   assess the feasibility of levying a processing tax on cotton fiber at the
ginnery as an alternative to existing taxes and as an alternative to an export
tax; and
(viii)  identify the appropriate production and international marketing strategy for
the sector to pursue in order to maximize profits, given the characteristics
of the cotton producing sector in Tajikistan.
3.             Based on the analysis and conclusions that emerge from the above analysis, the
consultants should identify several options for the Government's role in the cotton sector, with
particular emphasis on the changes in Glavchlopkoprom that will be necessary to achieve any of the
options. Among the options identified should be the: (a) evolution of Glavchlopkoprom into an
agency to operate the cotton exchange and (b) the complete privatization of Glavchlopkoprom.
Following the presentation of these options to the Government, the Government will, in consultation
with IDA, specify one or two of these options to be developed in detail.
Contract Arrangements
4.             Prior to issue of invitation to bid, the Sub-Component Beneficiary Agencies, in
consultation with IDA, will review the TOR and include such details as the recruitment of local
consultants, the duration of assignments, counterparts, required qualification, experience and
background and language proficiency. The TOR will also indicate assistance to be provided to the
consultants, such as:
(i)    administrative assistance in obtaining visas, custom clearance and any other
administrative permits required by the Consultants in the performance of the
assignment;
(ii)    existing data, maps, studies;
(iii)   office space, secretarial and other staff in Dushanbe;
(iv)   transport;
(v)    liaison with Government and local bodies; and
(vi)   any other assistance not readily available that the consultants may reasonably
request.



-29-
ANNEX 6
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT OF PRIVATIZATION
Sub-Component 6: Implementing the Farm Restructuring Program
Objectives
1 .           The lack of sufficient arable land in Tajikistan means that agricultural growth will
mainly depend on increased efficiency and intensification of land use. The main objective of this
sub-component is to assist the Government with converting land currently under the control of state
and collective farms into small-scale, privatized farms.
Activities and Output
2.            The consultants are expected to work closely with Government officials to:
(i)    identify and propose changes in existing laws and/or the Constitution that
are needed to ensure the integrity and security of private property, e.g.,
land, buildings and equipment;
(ii)   identify and propose changes in existing laws that are needed to ensure
secure land access rights and full transferability of access rights for
individuals leasing land;
(iii)   prepare an inventory of land to be restructured;
(iv)   specify detailed implementation mechanisms for the farm  restructuring
program. The core of this methodology should:
(a)    specify transparent criteria for selecting individuals/families to
receive land and/or other assets;
(b)    determine eligibility, amount and form  of compensation to be
paid/transferred to those who do not receive land;
(c)    ensure that the reallocation of farm  assets is voluntary and
acceptable to the intended beneficiaries;
(d)    ensure inheritability of land access rights; and
(e)    ensure  the complete  transferability  of land  under lifelong
inheritable leases.
(v)    assess the development of a land registry program so that those with land
access rights can use these rights as collateral;



-30-
(vi)   identify the collective farms' centralized functions (e.g., procurement of
inputs, output marketing, record keeping) that need to be performed by an
Agricultural Services Center;
(vii)   specify the mechanisms for establishing the Agricultural Services Center,
including the financing of its operations, its role vis-a-vis farmers and
farmer associations, and its role vis-a-vis the Government, including public
sector research and extension services;
(viii)  develop a methodology for forming voluntary farmer associations. The core
of this methodology must require:
(a)    a constitution for each association  specifying  the rights and
obligations of all members;
(b)    the democratic selection of officers; and
(c)    an exit mechanism for members wishing to leave the association.
(ix)    prepare an estimate of the cost of the farm restructuring program; and
(x)    prepare a timetable for the farm restructuring program that ensures that 75 %
of land currently under the control of state and collective farms will be
redistributed to leaseholders.
Contract Arrangements
3.             Prior to issue of invitation to bid, the Sub-Component Beneficiary Agencies, in
consultation with IDA, will review the TOR and include such details as the recruitment of local
consultants, the duration of assignments, counterparts, required qualification, experience and
background and language proficiency. The TOR will also indicate assistance to be provided to the
consultants, such as:
(i)    administrative assistance in obtaining visas, custom clearance and any other
administrative permits required by the consultants in the performance of the
assignment;
(ii)    existing data, maps, studies;
(iii)   office space, secretarial and other staff in Dushanbe;
(iv)    transport;
(v)    liaison with Government and local bodies; and
(vi)   any other assistance not readily available that the consultants may reasonably
request.



-31-
ANNEX 7
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Sub-Component 7: Legal Assistance
Obiectives
1.           The legal framework for the National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT) and the commercial
banking system are described in the Law on the NBT (February 1991) and the Law on Banks and
Banking Activity (December 1993). These laws lay the foundation for a two-tier banking system.
The NBT is aware of serious weaknesses in the current legal framework, which it intends to
address. The IDA will provide assistance through consultants specialized in general banking law.
Activities and Output
2.           The consultants will:
(i)    Advise the NBT on re-drafting the present law on banks and banking
activity, propose amendments to draft legislation currently under preparation
and advise the authorities so that they are able to introduce a law on banking
that will support the development of banking activity in Tajikistan while
being fully consistent with international practice.
(ii)   Ensure that the banking law includes:
(a) definitions of banks and banking operations;
(b) licensing process to engage in banking and/or financial business
activities;
(c) banking requirements (management, prudential, accounting and reporting
requirements );
(d) the means of enforcing the legal and regulatory provisions on banking
activities (role and power of regulatory and supervisory authorities),
sanctions, appeal procedures; and
(e) measures aimed at protecting depositors and creditors and strengthening
banker-customer relations.
(iii)   Coordinate closely with the legal advisor provided by the IMF, thereby
ensuring consistency between the revised legal framework for banks and the
revised law on the NBT.



-32-
Training
3.            The consultants will organize two seminars and workshops, each for a period of ten
days, for the management and staff of the legal department of the NBT and commnercial banks in
order to review the implications of the new law and the relations between the NBT and the banks
and enterprises.
Contract Arrangements
4.            Prior to issue of invitation to bid, the Sub-Component Beneficiary Agencies, in
consultation with IDA, will review the TOR and include such details as the recruitment of local
consultants, the duration of assignments, counterparts, required qualification, experience and
background language proficiency. The TOR will also indicate assistance to be provided to the
consultants, such as:
(i)    administrative assistance in obtaining visas, custom clearance and any other
administrative permits required by the consultant in the performance of the
assignment;
(ii)   existing data, maps, studies;
(iii)   office space, secretarial and other staff in Dushanbe;
(iv)   transport;
(v)    liaison with Government and local bodies; and
(vi)   any other assistance not readily available that the consultants may
reasonably request.



-33-
ANNEX 8
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Sub-Component 8: Assistance in Accounting and Auditing Reform
Obiectives
1.           The major aim of this sub-component is to revise the banking sector's current
accounting framework to a system consistent with International Accounting Standards. The
consultants will work closely with the National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT) in designing the revised
accounting framework. An accounting instruction manual will be developed and management and
staff of NBT and the banking system will be trained to implement the new accounting system. The
system will be implemented according to a timetable to be discussed by the consultants, including
in the first instance two larger banks as pilot banks for the system.
Activities and Output
2.           The consultants will:
(i)   review current accounting principles for banks in Tajikistan with a view to
reconstituting the whole accounting framework so that it is consistent with
International Accounting Standards (IAS);
(ii)   revise the accounting framework used by the NBT consistent with
international practice regarding Central Bank accounting practices and with
the proposed new accounting framework for the Tajik commercial banking
sector;
(iii)  introduce new accounting principles and standards;
(iv)   develop, in close cooperation with the NBT, charts of accounts unique to
the needs of each financial institution, as well as minimum reporting and
disclosure requirements and formats;
(v)    develop an accounting instruction manual to be made available to the banks,
hold on-the-job training sessions for NBT management and staff, and train
bank accounting managers and staff as well as representatives of the
Ministry of Finance and the State Tax Committee;
(vi)   develop reporting formats for disclosing accounting and regulatory
information to the NBT;
(vii)  implement the accounting framework on a pilot basis in two of the large
sectoral banks and prepare and implement detailed on-the-job training for
management and staff;



-34-
(viii)  assist in the design and promotion of a program for establishing a Tajik
accounting association, where accounting issues can be discussed and
resolved; and
(ix)   assist the banks by making available computer-based accounting packages
and advise on banks' software and hardware needs for accounting purposes.
Training
3.            Besides on-the-job training, a more formal training in the form of workshops and
seminars (totalling about 2 months of intensive training) is envisioned, introducing and illustrating
all aspects of the new accounting system. Management and staff of the accounting and auditing
departments of the NBT and commercial banks will be trained to understand the differences between
the current accounting procedures and the International Accounting System. Modern technology will
be applied to illustrate both systems and the changes to be undertaken.
Contract Arrangements
4.            Prior to issue of invitation to bid, the Sub-Component Beneficiary Agencies, in
consultation with IDA, will review the TOR and include such details as the recruitment of local
consultants, the duration of assignments, counterparts, required qualification, experience and
background and language proficiency. The TOR will also indicate assistance to be provided to the
consultants, such as:
(i)    administrative assistance in obtaining visas, custom clearance and any other
administrative permits required by the Consultants in the performance of the
assignment;
(ii)   existing data, maps, studies;
(iii)   office space, secretarial and other staff in Dushanbe;
(iv)   transport;
(v)    liaison with Government and local bodies; and
(vi)   any other assistance not readily available that the Consultants may
reasonably request.



-35-
ANNEX 9
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Sub-component 9: Assistance in Bank Audit Reports
Objectives
1.           The major objective of bank audit reports is to review the structure and operations
of the four major sectoral banks and make recommendations for reforming and restructuring these
operations. The auditors will work closely with the banks' management to improve their knowledge
of market-based banking activities and their insight into the necessary restructuring of the banks'
activities. Audit reports should be based on the new accounting system, according to International
Accounting Standards (IAS).
Scope of Reports
2.            The auditors will provide and use long form audit reports. The reports will include
the total package of Financial Statements for year-end, an assessment of internal controls and
procedures and specific recommendations to improve all operational matters the auditors find during
the course of performing the audits.
Scope of the Audits
3.            The required audits will place particular emphasis on the following:
(i)    Portfolio Assessment
The audits will include a systematic evaluation of the large enterprises and a sample
evaluation of smaller enterprises to cover, at a minimum, all loans greater than 1 %
of the value of the loan portfolio, 50% of the remaining Tajik rouble portfolio, by
value, and 50% of the remaining foreign currency portfolio, by value. The portfolio
audits will include visits to a number of significant borrowers whenever the
information available at the bank level is not sufficient to enable the auditor to carry
out a proper assessment.
(ii)   Investment Portfolio
The auditors will assess the equity portfolio and the reasonableness of the values
reported on the balance sheet. In assessing the equity portfolio, particular attention
will be given to the bank's objectives and policies in making equity investments.
The relationship (ratio) between total equity investments and the bank's own net
worth and the reasonableness thereof must be assessed.



-36-
(iii)   Liquidity and interest mismatches
The liquidity position included in the Financial Statements will be assessed by the
auditors, taking into account roll over and rescheduled (longer terms than initially
decided) loans. Any interest mismatch will be reported and explained.
(iv)   Capital Structure
The shareholders' structure will be described and the following questions answered:
Is capital growth funded by internal cash generation or capital contribution? In case
of capital contribution, is it cash (Tajik rouble, hard currency) or real assets? In
case of real assets, has a reliable third party valuation been provided?
(v)    Guarantees
The auditors will assess the guarantees, considering the Bank as recipient and issuer.
(vi)    Capital Adequacy
The auditors will assess the adequacy of capital on the format provided to them, as
well as the capacity of the bank to: (1) maintain a core capital to risk-adjusted assets
ratio of 4% and a total capital to risk-adjusted assets ratio of 8%; and (2) maintain
minimum equity capital of Tajik rouble 10 million.
(vii)   Financial Solvency and Profitability
The auditors will give particular attention to: (1) breakdown and analysis of the
banks' operating costs; (2) assessment of the reliability and composition of reported
bank earnings, with special emphasis on the extent to which accrued but uncollected
interest on non-performing loans is taken into income and the relative shares of
operating and non-operating income; (3) demonstration of financial solvency and
profitability, as measured by net income before dividends, providing a positive
return on assets.
(viii) Managerial Autonomy
The auditors will assess managerial autonomy through:
(a)    source of funds;
(b)    legal and ownership structure;
(c)    composition and locus of authority to appoint the Board of Directors;
(d)    management and staff selection and promotion policies and practices; and
(e)    loan approval procedures (equal treatment of shareholders and non-
shareholders and the absence of shareholders on the credit committee)



-37-
Training
4.            The consultants will provide one month of training, which will concentrate on
familiarizing the local consultants assigned to review each bank and the staff of the NBT and the
banks with the international accounting system. The resident expatriate consultants will explain the
main characteristics of IAS. They will elaborate on the banks' accounts that must be particularly
scrutinized and transformed into IAS, how the findings must be presented, what conclusions can be
drawn and what recommendations can be made. Each of the four resident expatriate consultants will
work closely with one local consultant in one of the four major banks (3 months). After the audits
have been completed, the team will prepare reports (1 month) and at the same time, introduce their
work to the management of each bank in several working meetings.
Contract Arrangements
5.            Prior to issue of invitation to bid, the Sub-Component Beneficiary Agencies, in
consultation with IDA, will review the TOR and include such details as the recruitment of local
consultants, the duration of assignments, counterparts, required qualification, experience and
background and language proficiency. The TOR will also indicate assistance to be provided to the
consultants, such as:
(i)    administrative assistance in obtaining visas, custom clearance and any other
administrative permits required by the auditors in the performance of the
assignment;
(ii)   existing data, maps, studies;
(iii)   office space, secretarial and other staff in Dushanbe;
(iv)   transport;
(v)    liaison with Government and local bodies; and
(vi)   any other assistance not readily available that the auditors may reasonably
request.



-38-
ANNEX 10
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Sub-Component 10: Assistance in Bank Supervision and Regulation
Objectives
1.           A major upgrade of the bank supervision and regulation in Tajikistan is called for.
The supervisors' authority needs to be clearly defined in the new banking legislation. The norms
currently used to regulate bank activities do not measure ,he banks' economic viability and require
thorough revision. Licensing of new banks needs to be encouraged, but the licensing framework
should be designed to avoid establishing poorly-run and undercapitalized banks. The focus should
be on establishing stable institutions, so as to enhance the process of financial re-intermediation.
The main objective is to train National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT) staff on bank supervision and
regulations and implement effective supervision of the banking system. The IMF has drafted the
Law on the NBT and has had preliminary discussions on supervision issues with NBT officials. The
proposed sub-component will provide consultants, specialized in Central Bank supervision, who in
close cooperation with the IMF, will help organize a supervision department and advise and train
its management and staff. The consultants' main emphasis will be to familiarize the commercial
banking community with the revised NBT supervision requirements.
Activities and Output
2.            The consultants will:
(i)    advise on up-grading the organizational structure of the supervision
department (both in NBT's Dushanbe office and at its regional
branches), making it possible to train and keep qualified staff;
(ii)   advise on establishing routine on-site bank supervision practices
according to international standards, including procedures for the
systematic evaluation of credit policies, lending practices, loan
classification and write-off policies; and
(iii)   advise on the complete revision of off-site supervision practices,
including replacing the "economic normatives" used by the NBT
with internationally recognized prudential and capital standards,
introducing a manual on bank reporting requirements and improving
reporting techniques and practices.
Training
3.            The consultants will provide on-the-job training regarding all aspects of bank
supervision and regulations. They will also provide training for the NBT staff, designed primarily
to improve the Bank's knowledge of on-site supervision techniques. It is envisaged that the
consultants, together with NBT staff, will undertake pilot on-site supervision of 5 banks, as well as



-39-
more formal training in the form of workshops and seminars (totalling about 2.5 months of intensive
training) for all members of the supervision department to improve understanding of the economic
significance of the revised off-site norms adopted by the NBT.
Contract Arrangements
4.            Prior to issue of invitation to bid, the Sub-Component Beneficiary Agencies, in
consultation with IDA, will review the TOR and include such details as the recruitment of local
consultants, the duration of assignments, counterparts, required qualification, experience and
background and language proficiency. The TOR will also indicate assistance to be provided to the
consultants, such as:
(i)    administrative assistance in obtaining visas, custom clearance and any other
administrative permits required by the Consultants in the
performance of the assignment;
(ii)   existing data, maps, studies;
(iii)   office space, secretarial and other staff in Dushanbe;
(iv)   transport;
(v)    liaison with Government and local bodies; and
(vi)   any other assistance not readily available that the consultants may reasonably
request.



-40-
ANNEX 11
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Sub-Component 11: Assistance in the Payments System
Obiectives
1.           The Tajik payments system is based on courier transport and manual processing of
clearing documents and payments. All interbank settlement takes place through branches of the
National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT), but the process is slow. The settlement of payments between
branches in different regions of the country takes up to 7 working days. While some modem-based
reporting has been introduced to communicate correspondent balances, banks are still required to
have positive end-of-day balances on their correspondent accounts with the NBT on a region-by-
region basis. The objective of this sub-component is to describe in detail the current payments
system. The consultants will then undertake a feasibility study for introducing a more efficient
payments mechanism to minimize settlement delays while limiting payments system risks.
Introducing a new payments system is necessary, both to allow banks to manage their liquidity
efficiently and to enable enterprises to assume full responsibility for their own treasury functions.
Activities and Output
2.            The consultants will:
(i)    describe the current payments infrastructure to identify the priorities for
improvement and provide a full analysis of risks inherent in the current
structure and how these will be gradually reduced;
(ii)   provide the conceptual framework for a revised payments system, define
methods to reduce or eliminate payments and settlement risks (embracing
the principle of gross settlement) and establish routines for clearing both
large and small value payments;
(iii)   based on current and planned development of the telecommunications
infrastructure in Tajikistan, undertake a feasibility study of the proposed
payments system, including hardware and software needs, focusing on
realistic, stage-by-stage implementation; and
(iv)   describe detailed requirements, on a stage-by-stage basis, for computer and
telecommunications equipment and data transmission software to implement
the revised payments system.



-41-
Training
3.            The consultants will provide training (of six weeks duration) for the NBT staff on
the conceptual framework of the proposed payments system.
Contract Arrangements
4.            Prior to issue of invitation to bid, the Sub-Component Beneficiary Agencies, in
consultation with IDA, will review the TOR and include such details as the recruitment of local
consultants, the duration of assignments, counterparts, required qualification, experience and
background and language proficiency. The TOR will also indicate assistance to be provided to the
consultants, such as:
(i)    administrative assistance in obtaining visas, custom clearance and any other
administrative permits required by the Consultants in the performance of the
assignment;
(ii)   existing data, maps, studies;
(iii)   office space, secretarial and other staff in Dushanbe;
(iv)   transport;
(v)    liaison with Government and local bodies; and
(vi)   any other assistance not readily available that the consultants may reasonably
request.



-42-
ANNEX 12
TERMS OF REFERENCE
PROCUREMENT ADVISOR
Profile of the Procurement Advisor
1.           The Procurement Advisor will be responsible for assisting the Director and Deputy
Director of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the Beneficiary Agencies in carrying out
procurement functions in accordance with the procurement procedures outlined under the proposed
credit and specified in the Credit Agreement with the Borrower. The term "Procurement Advisor,"
is used to mean expert staff from a specialized firm or an individual with experience in procurement
procedures, international commercial practices and use of consultants' services in accordance with
World Bank guidelines.
Responsibilities of the Procurement Advisor
2.            The Procurement Advisor will:
(i)    organize and coordinate activities with the Director and Deputy Director of
PIU and the representatives of the Beneficiary Agencies and ensure timely
action in all phases of project implementation;
(ii)   advise Beneficiary Agencies on World Bank methods and procedures for
selecting consultants and procuring equipment financed under the proposed
project, including assistance in preparing bidding documents and other
related matters:
(iii)   assist in bid openings, including evaluation and recommendation for
awarding contracts;
(iv)   assist ensuring that proposed contract awards meet the project's criteria and
objectives;
(v)    help to monitor overall project implementation progress;
(vi)   assist in managing overall accounting and auditing of project accounts; and
(vii)  help in preparing progress reports and a project completion report.
3.           To procure consultants' services in accordance with " The Bank Guidelines for Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" and by the IDA as Executing Agency, the Procurement
Advisor will assist the PIU and the Beneficiary Agencies in:
(i)    Arranging invitations and providing information to interested consultants;



43-
(ii)    Preparing documents for the selection of consultants that comply with Bank
requirements, including reviewing Terms of Reference with appropriate
adjustments to suit each agency's requirements; and seeking approval of
documents from the World Bank that involve discussions and meetings;
(iii)   Distributing documents to prospective bidders;
(iv)   Inviting bids/proposals;
(v)    Providing clarifications in response to potential bidder's questions;
(vi)   Conducting the bid opening process and preparing the minutes of bid
opening;
(vii)   Evaluating the Consultants' offers and submitting a bid evaluation report to
the Bank with award recommendation, providing any clarification or
analysis required by the financing agency; and
(viii)  Finalizing the contract in accordance with the Standard Form of Contract
for Consultants' Services issued by the Bank.
4.            For  non-ICB  procurement,  the  Procurement Advisor  would  assist the
PIU/Beneficiary Agencies in the appropriate procedures specified in the Credit Agreement,
including:
(i)    Soliciting written quotations from a list of potential suppliers broad enough
to secure competitive prices and stating the results in writing; evaluating
quotations and negotiating the resulting contracts;
(ii)    Soliciting quotations on sole-source basis after required approvals and
negotiating with supplier for spare parts or other proprietary items at
reasonable cost; and
(iii)   Placing purchase orders and contracts with selected suppliers, including
follow-up for delivery of goods according to schedule.
5.            If necessary, for procurement conducted according to International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures, the Procurement Advisor will assist the PIU and the Beneficiary Agencies
in the ICB procurement procedures.
6.            The Procurement Advisor will assist the PIU/Beneficiary Agencies in the area of
contract administration services by:
(i)    Collecting documentation, such as inspection certificates, certificates of
origin (manufacturers), suppliers' guarantees, bills of lading, beneficiary
insurance certificates and manufacturers' invoices;



-44-
(ii)   Maintaining in coordination with the PIU, accounting and financial
management and handling warranty and insurance claims; and,
(iii)   Assisting in the preparation of withdrawal applications, with the required
supporting documentation, and arranging payments to suppliers through the
PIU.
7.           The Procurement Advisor will also undertake the following tasks:
(i)    Train the Borrower's staff in intemational commercial practices and World
Bank Procurement Procedures, including familiarization with the Bank's
sample bidding documents so that the Borrower's staff can eventually handle
the procurement work;
(ii)   Advise the PIU in collecting and translating into English local procurement
laws, regulations and commercial practices to enable the preparation of a
Country Procurement Assessment Report for Tajikistan, and recommend
improvements to existing regulations and practices, within the framework
of intemational procedures and trading practices;
(iii)   Other procurement related activities of the project requested by the
Borrower and approved by the World Bank.
Reports
8..         The Procurement Advisor will submit periodic reports to the Government of
Tajikistan, as follows:
(i)    An Inception Report, within one month of work beginning in Dushanbe,
describing the proposed program of assistance in procurement and training;
(ii)   Subsequent reports every two months thereafter and a Final report on
conclusion of the work, including a draft Country Procurement Assessment
Report based on the Bank's outline; and
(iii)   Five copies of each report will be submitted in English and Russian to the
Government of Tajikistan and one copy of the English version will be
submitted to the Word Bank, through the Government.



-45-
Contract Arrangements
9.            Prior to issue of invitation to bid, the Sub-Component Beneficiary Agencies, in
consultation with IDA, will review the TOR and include such details as the recruitment of local
consultants, the duration of assignments, counterparts, required qualification, experience and
background and language proficiency. The TOR will also indicate assistance to be provided to the
consultants, such as:
(i)    administrative assistance in obtaining visas, custom clearance and any other
administrative permits required by the Consultants in the performance of the
assignment;
(ii)   existing data, maps, studies;
(iii)   office space, secretarial and other staff in Dushanbe;
(iv)   transport;
(v)    liaison with Government and local bodies; and
(vi)   any other assistance not readily available that the Consultants may
reasonably request.



-46-
ANNEX 13
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Office Equipment
Financing Components                            Computer   Printer Photocopier   Fax Machine   Cost
(thousands of
U.S. dollar)
1. Privatization                                       45       17       2            10          166
a. Small-Scale                                10        5        -            4           55
b. Medium- and Large-Scale                    15        4        2            1           35
c. Mass Privatization                         21        4        -            1           47
d. Public Information                               -        -                -             -
e. Cotton Marketing Authority                       -        -                -             -
f. Farm Restructuring                         10        4        -            4           29
2. Financial Sector                                    52       16        9            -          116
g. Legal Assistance                            2        1        -            -            5
h. Accounting and Auditing                    20        5        3            -           47
i. Bank Audit Reports                               -        -          -                   -
j. Bank Supervision                           30       10        6             -          64
k. Payment System                              -        -        -            -             -
3. Project Implementation and other Technical Assistance  9      3       7             1           18
TOTAL                                                 106       36      18            11          300



Schedule A
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Detailed Project Costs
(thousands of U.S. dollars)
Foreign    Component
Costs        Costs
as % of      as % of
Cost Components                                       Local      Foreign        Total      Total Costs  Total Costs
1. Privatization                                      223         2225          2448            91           45
a.  Small-Scale                                30          299          329            91            6
b.  Medium- and Large-Scale                    71          708          779            91            14
c.  Mass Privatization                         39          386          425            91             8
d.  Public Information                         20          204          224            91            4
e.  Cotton Marketing Authority                 10           97           107           90            2
f.  Farm Restructuring                         53          531          584            91            11
2. Financial Sector                                    184         1939         2134            91           39
g.  Legal Assistance                           11          107           118           91            2
h.  Accounting and Auditing                    80          903          983            92            18
i.  Bank Audit Reports                         48          482          530            91           10
j.  Bank Supervision                           28          275           303           91             6
k.  Payments System                            17          172          189            91            3
3. Other Technical Assistance                          27           231          258            90            4
4. Project Implementation                               16          140           156           90             3
5. Price Contingencies                                 50           465          515            90            9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                   500          5000         5500            90          100



Schedule A
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Financing Plan
(thousands of U.S. dollars)
IDA
Financing
Total   as % of
Local        Foreign        Total      Project   Project
Financing Components                                 GOT  IDA        IDA       GOT   IDA       Cost      Cost
1. Privatization                                     223      62    2163       223    2225    2448        91
a.  Small-Scale                              30       12    287        30    299        329      91
b.  Medium- and Large-Scale                  71       30     678       71      708      779      91
c.  Mass Privatization                       39       10      376      39      386      425      91
d.  Public Information                       20        2     202       20      204      224      91
e.  Cotton Marketing Authority               10        1       96       10      97      107      91
f.  Farm Restructuring                       53       19     512       53      531      584      91
2. Financial Sector                                  184       28    1911      184    1939    2134        91
g.  Legal Assistance                         11        2      105      11      107      118      91
h.  Accounting and Auditing                  80       15      888      80      903      983      92
i.  Bank Audit Reports                       48        2     480       48      482     530       91
j.  Bank Supervision                         28        7      268      28      275      303       91
k.  Payments System                          17        2      170       17     172      189      91
3. Other Technical Assistance                         27        -     231       27      231     258       90
4. Project Implementation                             16        -     140       16      140      156      90
5. Price Contingencies                                50        -     465       50     465      515       90
TOTAL PROJECT FINANCING                              500       90    4910      500    5000    5500        90



Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(thousands of U.S. dollars)
Procurement Method
Project Element                  IS            Other                         Total
Goods                                     300a/                                          300
Computers and related                 (300)                                         (300)
equipment
Consultancies, Other Technical
Expert Assistance and Training             --            4700b'                        4700
--          (4700)                        (4700)
Total                                     300             4700                          5000
(300)          (4700)                        (5000)
Note: Numbers in parentheses are amounts to be financed by IDA.
a/ International Shopping
b/ Consultant Services, according to "The Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank as Executing Agency,"
published by the Bank in August 1981.



Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IDA Disbursements
(thousands of U.S. dollars)
Category                                    Amount       % of Expenditures to be Financeda'
Consultants' services and training           4700        100% of expenditures.
Computers, equipment and other goods          300        100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs), and 75% of expenditures for
other items procured locally.
Total                                        5000
a/ All expenditures to be financed will be net of taxes.
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(millions of U.S. dollars)
FY97             FY98                FY 99           FY 2000
Annual                    1.0               1.5                 1.5               1.0
Cumulative                1.0               2.5                 4.0               5.0



Schedule C
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Timetable of Key Processing Steps
Time taken to prepare:
(a) Project prepared by:                 Government, with the assistance of World Bank staff
(b) Preparation/Pre-appraisal:           October - November 1995
(c) Appraisal mission:                   January 1996
(d) Negotiations:                        March 1996
(e) Board presentation:                  May 1996
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:       June 1996
(g) Expected project completion:          May 2000
Responsibility for Project Preparation
Task Manager           :       M.R. Ghasimi (EC3Cl)
Project Team           :       S. Bell (PSD); M. Fuchs, N. Minners (EMTPS)
Division Chief         :       M. Gould (EC3AI)
Department Director    :       Y. Huang (EC3)
Regional Vice President  :     J. Linn (ECA)
Peer Reviewers         .       M. de Nevers (LA2EU); 0. Ruhl (EC4C2)



Schedule D
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Implementation Plan
Component                              Responsible Agency              Timing
Privatization
a. Small-Scale                      SPC                     February 96 - July 97
b. Medium- and Large-Scale          SPC                     February 96 - February 98
c. Mass Privatization               SPC                     September 96 - December 98
d. Public Information               SPC                     September 96 - December 97
e. Cotton Marketing Authority       MOA                     May 96 - December 97
f. Farm Restructuring               MOA                     May 96 - December 97
Financial Sector
g. Legal Assistance                 NBT                     March 96 - March 97
h. Accounting and Auditing          NBT                     March 96 - December 98
i. Bank Audit Reports               NBT                     March 97 - December 99
j. Bank Supervision                 NBT                     March 97 - December 99
k. Payments System                  NBT                     March 97 - December 99
Project Implementation                 PIU                     January 96 - May 2000



Schedule E
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
INSTITUTION BUILDING TEC HNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Cost Estimates by Major Contract and Schedule of Critical Procurement Steps
(thousands of U.S. dollars)
Component                               Contract Type                        Procurement Method                      Prepare Bid      Issue Bid          Sign
Contract                               and Base Cost                                                                Invtation        Doumment        Contract
PRIVATIZATION
Assistance to SPC                        Consulting/Training    1,630                 Short list of firms                     Feb. 1996      May 1996            Aug. 96
Assistance to MOA                        Consulting/Training     666                  Short list of firms                     May 1996       July 1996           Oct. 96
SUBTOTAL                                                    2,296
FINANCIAL SECTOR
Legal. Accouning and Audit Reports       Consulting/Tmining     1,605                 Short list of fums                      Mar. 1996      May 1996            Aug. 96
Bank Supervision and Payments System     Consulting/Training     428                  Short list of firns                     Mar. 1997      July 1997           Sept. 97
SUBTOTAL                                                      2,033
Project Implementation and Other Technical   Consulting/Training  371                 Short list of individuals(timing to be determined)
Assistance
OFFICE EOUIPMENT                         Goods                    300                 International Shopping                  May 1996       July 1996           Aug. 96
TOTAL                                                           5,000



Schedule F
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Approximate                                                                                                  Stafff                               Staff
Dates                         Activities                                                              Composition                            Weeks
05/96                      Project Launch Workshop                                                   Task Manager, Procurement,                     7
Disbursement and Component Specialists
02/96 -                    Preparation of consultant bid and equipment bid                           Task Manager,                                 15
08/96                      packages.                                                                 Procurement and Component Specialists
01/97 -                    Review training program.                                                  Task Manager                                   6
07/97
03/97 -                    Review work progress on all components and                                Task Manager and                              10
09/97                      finalize timetables for completion of all components.                     Component Specialists
11/97                      Review Diagnostic Studies and Privatization Program.                      Task Manager and                               5
Component Specialists
03/98                      Mid-term review.                                                          Task Manager and                               10
Component Specialists
06/98                      Review privatization Component.                                           Task Manager and                                7
Component Specialists
11/98                      Review payments system and supervision                                    Task Manager and Financial Specialist          6
05/99                      Review financial sector components and Privatization.                     Task Manager                                    7
Component Specialists
12/99                      Supervision of disbursement and ftnal report                              Task Manager                                  12
Disbursement Specialist
85



Schedule G
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Performance Monitoring Indicators
Component:                        Privatization
Objectives:                       a) Increase efficiency of enterprises
b) Strengthen country's institutional capacity to sustain reform
c) Reduce fiscal burden on Government
Input Indicators                  Process Indicators                Output Indicators                J Impact Indicators
i) Consultancy services to assist    i)  Bids to provide consultancy  i)  Public information strategy  i) Improved enterprise sector
in development of policy,          services invited;                 developed and operational;        efficiency as measured through
strategy and implementation of   ii)  Bids received and evaluated;    ii)  3,500small enterprises      a reduction in unit cost of
the privatization program; and    iii) Contracts for consultancy     privatized from July 1996 to      production and increase in the
ii) Consultancy services, training    services awarded;                 December 1997;                    quantity and quality of output;
and equipment to increase SPC   iv) Process of establishing legal    iii) 275 medium and large      ii) Strengthening of Government
capacity to independently          and regulatory framework          enterprises privatized from       capacity through improved
implement the privatization        started;                          January to December 1997;         technical understanding of
program.                       v)  Process of establishing           and                               privatization process;
databases for (a) small-scale    iv) Corporatization of medium  iii) Reduced net financial flows
SOEs and (b) medium- and          and large enterprises not         from Government to the public
large-scale SOEs started;         privatized.                       enterprise sector (on the
vi) Development and official                                            condition that financial flows
approval of competitive and                                         to enterprises remaining in the
transparent auction and tender                                      public sector will not increase
procedures initiated;                                              to offset the reduction to
vii) Auction has become                                                 privatized enterprises); and
operational nationwide; and                                     iv) Increased speed of the
viii) Enterprise and share auctions                                     privatization program from 7
started.                                                            percent of small-scale
enterprises to 50 percent from
July 1996 to December 1997
and from a minimal percentage
of medium and large
enterprises to 14 percent from
January to December 1997.



Schedule G
Page 2 of 3
Component:                       Farm Restructuring and Demonopolization of Cotton Processing and Marketing Channels
Objectives:                      a) Increase farm efficiency
b) Strengthen country's institutional capacity to sustain reform
c) Liberalize public sector control of cotton sector
d) Reduce fiscal burden on Government
|Input Indicators                 Process Indicators                Output Inidicators           | Impact Indicators
i) Consultancy services, training   i)   Bids to provide consultancy    i)   Reports containing  i)  Improved farm efficiency as
and equipment to prepare           services invited;                 recommendations on the        measured through reduction in unit
studies of farm restructuring  ii)  Bids received and evaluated;     design and                    cost of production and increase in
and privatization of the cotton   iii)  Contracts for consultancy    implementation of a farm      the quantity and quality of
marketing authority and            services awarded or advisors      restructuring strategy        agricultural output;
ginneries under its control.       appointed;                        ready; and               ii)  Capacity enhancement of the MOA
iv)  First draft of studies      ii)   Options established for       through improved technical
completed, circulated and        privatization of the cotton    understanding of farm restructuring
discussed; and                   marketing authority and        and privatization of the cotton
v)   Process of reviewing options     privatization of the           marketing authority and its
for the role and privatization   ginneries under its            ginneries;
of the cotton marketing          control.                  iii)  Reduced public sector control of
authority started.                                              cotton sector;
iv)  Reduced net financial flows to state
farms (on the condition that
financial flows to farms remaining
in the public sector will not
increase to offset the reduction to
privatized farms); and
v)  Increased speed of farm
restructuring program from 10
percent of land allocated to private
household plots to 75 percent from
May 1996 to May 2001.



Schedule G
Page 3 of 3
Component                         Financial Sector
Objective:                        a) Facilitate transition to a market-based financial sector
b) Strengthen country's institutional capacity to sustain reform
Input Indicators                  Process Indicators                  Output Indicators                  Impact Indicators
i)  Consultancy services, training   i) Bids to provide consultancy  i) Banking law ready for            i) More viable banking system as
and equipment to National         services invited;                  submission to Parliament;           measured through reduction of
Bank of Tajikistan (NBT) and   ii) Bids received and evaluated;  ii) New accounting and auditing        the ratio of non-performing
commercial banks.             iii) Contracts for consultancy         standards and accounting            bank assets to total assets;
services awarded or advisors       instruction manual ready; and    ii) Enhanced NBT policy making
appointed; and                 iii) Studies containing background     and institutional capacity
iv) First draft of studies on banking  information, analysis and          through improved technical
law, charts of accounts for        recommendations on audit           understanding of operations,
banks, accounting instruction      reports of four sectoral banks,    supervision and payments
manual for banks, audit reports    and bank supervision and           system of banks;
of four sectoral banks, bank       payments system for use by      ii) Improved financial
supervision manual and             policy makers in formulating       performance measured through
payments system completed,         financial sector strategy           sufficiency of capital and
circulated and discussions         complete.                           liquidity, the interest spread
started.                                                              between loans and deposits and
the quality of assets;
iii) Better banks supervision and
payments system through
suitable criteria and systems
for licensing and prudential
regulations consistent with
international standards and
audits of banks by qualified
firms; and
iv) More skilled and
knowledgeable banks' staff in
risk management procedures,
budgeting principles and
human resource development.
m:\tj\nv-lend\pa-43231\21ena\1apprais\teanne.gr April 16, 1996  2:46 pm
MRGhasimi:gb






r                gl&'PA:AXSTAN /19 '
~Ac~SAN~9 1,                                       rTAJIKISTAN
\ S <' ..    To T7s5kEn_                    ./            To Tashkent                                                           MAIN ROADS
To TOS,-OSent                                      ~~~~~~~RAILROADS
S      SELECTED CITIES
UZBEK.                                    1~~~   ~~~0,  AUTONOMOUS OBLAST (AO) CENTER
ToGusin    t.    w <,To Cuqon (                                       OBLAST CENTER
U Z BE K I STAN                  T G                   Kho and                                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
Kap,badam-                                                                   AUTONOMOUS OBLAST (AO) BOUNDARIES
To Ti,ziuk                              ,CIoas\---- OBLAST BOUNDARIES"
.. . . . .                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
grt} '    Uro Tyube   -   ._,>                        .._) .J                    Anohlobirxs;s rnr,med only vre,, its nome d-toers flon- tiut of its -d'-nostrot,oe center
KYRGYZ                  REP. 72                                 ToOsh                                               75
C <n~~~* Jt. ,~~~'Vt,-S~>~  
rr Eendzhtken+t                  Aye"                                                                              K J 
79                                   f *>   .  GE0LEN 1NABAD                                                                                                                                              C H I N A
e           lJ o                    , To Shufu
Korakul'
J< snz            a e.qrer
To Denou
'K gon7 A                        ,a            Kulyab i                                 T"<BADAKHSHiAN SKAYA                                                     ,
AO
T Termiz                                                                                                                 o ro
.1                                                                                                                                          ___         ___         __       ___          ___         __
KA ZA  K H S TA N
The boundaries, colors,                                                                                                                                                          I
denominations and any
other information shown                    A   F  G   H  A   N   I S  T  A    N                                                                                                                                                   rr
on this map do not
imply, on the port of                                                                                                                                                                       UZBEKISTAN
The World Bank Group,                 0              50             100             150 KILOMETERS                         !lS
any judgment on the legal                             I                              I                                   (                                               /    TURKMENISTAN       <                   *< KYRGYZ REP       TO
>     status of any territory,              0                        S                            I                                        PAKISTAN                             +                                                 - 
L.    or any endorsement                                                                       I 0  00 MI LES                                                                                           ND-khorr6  TA'         -J
or acceptance of such                                                                                                                                                                 ,'- /s>    ki
boundaries.                                  69                                                                                      72                                SLAMIC REP                                ) / AFGHANISTt   ;,  CHINA    I
69'                                                      72'                               ~~~~~~~OF IRAN  1k    -                   L-AF









IMAGING
Report No:1r'   6811 TJ
Type: MOP



