Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3014-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
April 6, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Won
US$1.00        =   W 650
US$1 million        W 650 million
Won 1               US$0.0015
Won 1 million  =   US$1,538
Won 1 billion  -   US$1.54 million
MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)    =  3,000 pyeongs
1 pyeong          =  3.3 sq m
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC       Agricultural Development Corporation
AFDC  -   Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation
GOK   =   Government of Korea
KCs   =   Kun Cooperatives
LAOs      Loan Appraisal Officers
MAF       Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
NACF      National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
ORD       Office of Rural Development
PCs   -   Primary Cooperatives
SCs       Special Cooperatives
SOE       Statement of Expenditure
TU        Technical Unit
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              The Republic of Korea
Beneficiary:           The National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF)
Amount:                $50.0 million equivalent
Terms:                 15 years, including three years grace with interest
at 9.6% p.a.
Relending Terms:       The Government would relend the entire proceeds of the
proposed Bank loan to NACF on the same interest rate
and terms as it receives from the Bank. The Government
would assume the foreign exchange risk. NACF would
relend the proceeds of the Bank loan and its own contri-
bution either directly to subborrowers or to participat-
ing cooperatives which would relend to subborrowers.
Subject to changes from time to time by the Government
in consultation with the Bank and NACF, the interest
rate payable by participating cooperatives would be at
least 13.0% and by subborrowers at least 16.0% per
annum. These rates take into account the weighted
average cost of Project funds to NACF from the Bank loan
proceeds and other sources plus a sufficient margin to
NACF and participating cooperatives (currently 1% and 3%
respectively) to cover administrative costs, and the
objective of maintaining a positive rate of interest in
real terms. Sub-loan repayment and grace periods would
be based on the subproject's cash flows with the maximum
expected to be eleven years (including six years of
grace).
Project Description:  The project is intended to address many of the basic
issues now facing Korean agriculture including the need
to increase (i) production of high-value fruits and
vegetables, (ii) farm productivity; and (iii) off-season
employment. Over a four-year period, the project would
provide credit for a wide range of activities, notably:
greenhouses, sprinkler irrigation, on-farm storage,
chilled storage, spraying equipment, small-scale agro-
processing, and backyard livestock. The project
activities would cover the whole country and directly
benefit about 13,700 farmers and 124 cooperatives.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Estimated Cost:
Local          Foreign         Total
---------- (US$million) ----------
On-farm development             49.2           38.3            87.5
Chilled storage                 10.0            6.4            16.4
Others                           5.0            5.3            10.3
Total                     64.2            50.0           114.2
Financing Plan:            The financing plan is expected to be as follows:
Local          Foreign         Total
Source                         ---------- (US:miiiion) ----------
Bank                             _             50.0            50.0
NACF                            29.9            -              29.9
Beneficiaries                   34.3            -              34.3
Total                     64.2            50.0           114.2
Estimated Disbursements:   Bank FY   82         83       84      85       86
…-------- ( $ million) ------
Annual          6.0     10.0    12.5    14.0    7.5
Cumulative      6.0     16.0    28.5    42.5   50.0
Rate of Return:            41%
Staff Appraisal Report:      No. 3184-KO, dated March 19, 1981.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRFCTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR A
TNIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $50.0 million to help
finance a proposed third agricultural credit project. The loan would have a
term of 15 years, including a 3-year period of grace, with interest at
9.6% p.a. The repayment period applicable to subborrowers would be based
on the cash flows of the subprojects with an interest rate of at least 16.0%
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Current Developments
and Policy Issues" was distributed under cover of SecM80-449, dated May 20,
1980. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Past Performance and Emerging Structural Problems
3.        During the last two decades, Korea achieved remarkable economic
progress. At the beginning of the 1960s, the country was suffering from the
typical vicious circle of poverty. GNP was about $80 per capita and exports
only $41 million. During the following 16 years, 1962-78, real GNP grew by
9.3% p.a., exports by 25% p.a., and industrial production by about 16% p.a.
By 1978, per capita GNP exceeded the thousand dollar mark, merchandise
exports were above $12 billion, the net foreign capital inflow was only
about 15% of total imports, the rate of unemployment was down to 3.2% and
the ratio of population below the poverty level was estimated to be under
15%.
4.        Korea succeeded in achieving a high rate of growth between 1973 and
1978 despite a total dependency on imports for its petroleum needs and the
quadrupling of oil import prices between 1972 and 1974. Korea's oil import
bill grew to $1.0 billion in 1974, absorbing 22% of export receipts. The
terms of trade worsened by about 21% between 1972 and 1974 leading to slightly
over 4% of GNP loss. In spite of this, Korea succeeded in maintaining a GNP
growth rate of 8% in 1974 and about 11% p.a. during 1974-78. Notwithstanding
the recession in developed countries and growing protectionism, Korea's
exports grew by 24% p.a. during 1974-78. The ratio of foreign savings to
GDP rose 12.4% from about 7.4% in 1973 to 11.5% in 1974 and 11.1% in 1978.
Throughout this period, the rate of unemployment continued to decline and
the investment-income ratio during 1974-78 was higher (29%) than during the
preceding five years (26%).



- 2 -
5.        Among the policy instruments which contributed to Korea's success in
very rapidly overcoming the effects of the first oil crisis were: (a)
increased borrowing from abroad in order to maintain the momentum of growth;
(b) devaluation in 1973 and 1974; (c) restraint in wage increases in 1974 and
1975 when real wages in mining and manufacturing increased by 5.1% p.a. and
labor productivity by 10.5% p.a.; (d) an increase in government savings from
2.2% of GNP in 1974 to 4.9% of GNP in 1978; and (e) continued emphasis on
export diversification in products as well as markets. In addition to these
policy adjustments, the Korean economy also gained from (a) an improvement in
terms of trade and (b) a spectacular growth in overseas construction contracts
which stood at $15 billion at the end of 1978 and yielded gross earnings of
about $2.2 billion.
6.        However, the very success of the Korean planners in stimulating
exports, investment and growth during 1975-78 seriously strained the economy.
Between 1975 and 1978 the real domestic demand (consumption, investment and
exports) expanded by 15% p.a. Both the volume of exports and the level of
real fixed investment doubled over these three years and purchasing power of
exports improved as terms of trade showed a recovery of 37%. Such a rapid
expansion in demand, along with multiplier effects understandably created
bottlenecks in the economy and fueled inflationary pressures. Labor markets
witnessed a major transformation in this period. Non-agricultural
employment expanded by 27% between 1975 and 1978, and employment in the
critical construction sector increased by 55% during this period.
Reflecting the tightening of the labor market, money wages in manufacturing
increased by 33% p.a. during 1977-79 and real wages clearly outstripped the
growth in productivity. The constraint on the supply of housing, together
with fast accelerating demand, led to very sharp increases in prices of
dwellings. Structural factors such as shifts in the pattern of demand and
bottlenecks in the supply of agricultural products such as meat and vegetables
put further pressures on consumer prices. The sharp rise in Korea's price
level compared with the major trading partners in turn eroded export
competitiveness and led to a major deterioration in the balance of payments.
Only a part of the widening of the current account deficit from $1.1 billion
in 1978 to $4.2 billion in 1979 was attributable to an increase in the oil
import bill. The basic underlying factors were the stagnation in the volume
of exports and rapidly rising non-oil imports reflecting continuation of
a major investment boom until the third quarter of 1979.
7.        The difficult economic situation prevailing in 1979 was further
aggravated by the second oil crisis and the political problems emerging in
1979/80. As a result of the increase in the price of oil, Korea-s annual
oil import bill rose from about $3 billion in 1979 to about $6 billion in
1980. The deterioration in the terms of trade amounted to a loss of GNP of
about 4% between 1978 and 1980. Moreover, the oil price increase contributed
to a slowing down of the growth rate of the industrialized countries and to an
acceleration of their rates of inflation. The prospects for world trade in



- 3 -
manufactures deteriorated and for an economy like Korea's, where growth has
been led by exports, this amounted to a significant worsening of growth
prospects. At the same time, the months between the October 1979 assassin-
ation of President Park and the inauguration of the present administration
last September were marked by a high degree of political uncertainty and
civil unrest.
8.        Under the combined impact of the adverse economic and political
events, the economy went into a recession: the seasonally adjusted GNP, as
well as nonagricultural GDP, declined in each of the last three quarters of
1979. Notwithstanding the recessionary tendencies wholesale and consumer
prices rose by over 18% during 1979, compared to a 12-14% increase during
1978. The current account balance of payments deficit widened sharply from
$1.1 billion in 1978 to $4.2 billion, or about 7% of GNP, in 1979. The nature
of the current economic difficulties and some key policy issues were reviewed
in the latest Bank economic report which concluded that in order to tackle the
serious problems created by the past structural imbalances and the oil crisis,
it would be necessary to adopt measures for a restructuring of the economy
aimed at improving efficiency, controlling inflation and improving the balance
of payments position. Among the needed measures that the report identified
were: (a) a review of the investment pattern in the heavy industries sector,
(b) restructuring agricultural income support programs, (c) improved energy
efficiency through proper pricing as well as energy saving investments, and
(d) reform of the financial system. As noted below, the Government took a
series of measures in 1980 both to revitalize the economy and addresss the
structural issues. In spite of these measures, however, the rate of growth of
GNP in 1980 was negative (estimated at -5.7% of which about 4 percentage
points decline was due to the drop in agricultural production), the rate of
inflation (GNP deflator) about 30%, and current account deficit about
$5.5 billion.
Policy Measures Taken in 1980
9.        In its attempt to correct the emerging structural imbalances and
to respond to the oil price hikes, the Government initiated a series of
policy actions in 1980, in three phases. At the beginning of the year,
within the overall framework of a "stabilization first" policy, the
Government introduced changes in the exchange rate, interest rates and
energy prices in order to respond to the changing structure of international
prices. In June, the Government moved to increase public expenditure and
relax credit ceilings to tackle the growing problems of unemployment and
declining industrial production. The third phase came a few weeks after
the current administration took office in September 1980 and was character-
ized by a more active program for the revitalization of the economy through
promotion of exports and of the construction industry and consolidation of the
heavy industries sector through mergers. Prospects for the effective
implementation of this program are heightened by the fact that the new
Government includes a number of highly experienced and competent individuals.
The Prime Minister served in key Cabinet positions during most of the 1970s
and is identified with the formulation and application of the imaginative



-4-
and bold policies which enabled Korea to surmount the difficulties posed by
the first oil crisis of 1974/75.  Some details of the measures adopted
during these three phases are noted below.
10.       Exchange Rates, Interest Rates and Energy Prices.  In January
1980, the won was devalued by about 20% from W 484 to W 580 per US$1. This
was followed in February by a new exchange rate system under which the value
of the won would be determined on the basis of a basket of currencies
(consisting of SDR and a sub-basket of currencies reflecting the shares of
the countries in Korea's merchandise trade) although other factors such as
relative price movements could also be taken into account. The new system
has given flexibility to Korea's exchange rate and the dollar value of the
won has declined by about 10% since February 1980. In January 1980, interest
rates were also raised by about 6 percentage points for most lending and
deposit rates. Subsequently there have been some minor downward adjustments
in interest rates; however, at present, the prime lending rate stands at
about 21 percent, which is higher than the expected rate of inflation for
the year ahead. In response to rapidly rising oil import prices, the
Government had already raised domestic oil prices by about 75% in 1979.
In January 1980 the prices were raised again by about 60%, bringing the
total increase to 227% between July 1979 and November 1980.
11.       Demand Management.  At the beginning of 1980, the Government was
pursuing an extremely tight monetary policy. In spite of the substantial
increase in domestic prices, due to the energy price increases and devalua-
tion, the rate of growth of money supply (M2) was to be kept at the
target of 20% in 1980. In order to restrain the budget deficit, Government
expenditures were to be cut back, with principal emphasis on reducing
expenditures with a low employment impact or high fuel or import intensity.
However, by mid-year, concerned at th rising unemployment and declining
industrial production, the Government eased the monetary and fiscal squeeze.
In response to the Bank's suggestions for flexible monetary policy and in
agreement with the IMF, the target growth rate of M2 for 1980 was raised
to 25%. Budget expenditures of W 112.7 billion frozen earlier were made
available for public works programs and additional credit was made available
for small and medium industries and for construction of housing units, par-
ticularly for low-income families. Further incentives for residential
construction were given in September by reducing the rate of capital gains tax
on real estate transfer (from 50-80% to 35-75%), and increased funds were made
available to the Korea Housing Bank and the Korea Land Development
Corporation. To promote exports, loans per dollar of letter of credit for
exports were increased and the banks were asked to pool resources for
providing performance guarantees requested by domestic companies for overseas
construction contracts, and for helping exports of heavy and chemical
industries on a deferred payment basis.
12.       Protecting Livelihood of the Poor.  Throughout 1980, with growing
unemployment and rising prices, the Government adopted various measures
to alleviate the economic strain on the poor. Among these measures were:
expansion of public works programs; various subsidy schemes on essential



- 5 -
goods and services such as rice, coal briquettes and bus services; a program
for increasing imports of major grains and giving tariff reductions on some
essential commodities; and an increase in interest rates on special savings
programs for low income families.
13.       Industrial Rationalization Program.  The new administration has
moved to tackle the very difficult issues arising from recent excessive
investment in some heavy industries. It has issued instructions for
consolidation in six industries, namely, motor vehicles,/1 power generation
equipment, copper smelting, heavy electrical equipment, electronic switching
systems, and marine diesel engines. Since all these operations are
privately-owned, the mergers involve complicated changes in ownership,
licensing arrangements, contractual relationships and management patterns.
In a move to encourage greater equity financing, the Government will
disallow the treatment of interest payments as expenses in the calculation
of tax liability for firms which are already too heavily leveraged. The
larger companies will be required to register all land owned and the land
found unnecessary by the Government for the companies operations will have
to be sold and the proceeds of these sales used for improving debt-equity
ratios of these firms.
14.       Expansion of Social Development Expenditure.  The new administra-
tion proposes to expand rapidly expenditures in the areas of education,
housing, health and social welfare. It has announced a large increase in
enrollment quotas for higher education, reform of the private tutoring system,
and an expansion of the medical insurance program.
15.       The Government is in the process of formulating the Fifth Five-Year
Plan (FYP) which will cover the years 1982-86./2 The objectives of the plan
are restoration of growth momentum along with equity through employment
generation and increased social development expenditures. The general
strategy is to increase efficiency of resource use by opening up the economy
to greater international competition, by liberalizing the financial system and
by promoting competition in domestic production and marketing. The emphasis
on heavy and chemical industries would continue but will be combined with
efforts at consolidation of the industrial structure and promotion of science
and technology. Energy conservation and substitution for oil will receive
major attention. The income support program for the poor (including rural
income support programs) would gradually shift from generalized subsidy
programs to targetted investment and income transfer programs. There would be
greater efforts than in earlier plans on reducing regional imbalances, meeting
/1 The plans for mergers in the motor vehicle industry have recently been
modified to allow two competing automobile manufacturers.
/2   The Bank is the executing agency for a UNDP-financed program for
assistance to the Fifth Plan formulation. This assistance involves
mobilizing some 30 foreign consultants to advise on some selected
aspects of the Plan and organizing training programs for Koreans
at selected institutions abroad.



- 6 -
basic needs, tackling urban problems such as housing, transport and water
supply and environmental pollution, and development of a social security
system.
External Capital Requirements
16.       At the last meeting of the Consultative Group for Korea, held in
June 1980, there was a consensus that in spite of the current difficulties,
Korea's longer-term prospects remained good. Among the sources of strength
for the economy are: a large investment base; the young, skilled and rapidly
growing labor force; the scope for exports of capital goods including
construction equipment, and the dynamism of its private sector. It is
generally recognised, however, that even with strenuous government efforts for
structural adjustment, Korea's balance of payments can improve only over a
period of several years. The current account deficit in balance of payments
is expected to remain about $5 billion per year during the next few years.
Allowing for debt service and addition to reserves, the gross external capital
inflows required during 1980-81 are estimated to be about $7.5 billion per
year, of which about $1.3 billion could be expected from public sources
(excluding Ex-Im banks but including the IMF), and the rest from private
sources.
17        While Korea is extending its use of commercial financing from
traditional suppliers and private bank credits to Euro-dollar syndicated loans
and bond issues in the Euro-bond and Asian bond market and is expected to
derive an increasing proportion of its total requirements from such sources,
the magnitude of these external capital requirements is such that it will have
to continue to rely on considerable capital inflows from official sources. It
should, however, be emphasized that the higher anticipated levels of external
capital inflow (relative to the Fourth Plan targets) are a consequence of its
higher investment rates rather than a shortfall in the domestic savings rate.
The ratio of foreign savings to GNP is expected to decline in the 1980s,
following the restructuring and readjustment planned for the next few years.
Servicing of the debt should not pose difficulties given the present debt
service ratio and the continuing emphasis on export growth, provided that the
proportion of external debt incurred on shorter term and at high interest
rates is not excessive. The projected ratio of debt service payments to total
export earnings is expected to remain below 16% throughout the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
18.       As of February 28, 1981, Korea had received 54 Bank Loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $3,135.2 million in loans
and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan). As of that date,
$994.3 million of the total Bank lending remained undisbursed on effective
Loans and Credits, mostly from commitments in the past two years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments



as of that date and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated
in the notes, progress on project implementation is generally satisfactory,
however, delays in several projects - irrigation and rural development
highways and population - have occurred due primarily to increased costs and
shortfalls in government budgetary contributions. Measures to increase local
funding of the affected projects are under discussion with the Government.
19.        In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea has been towards assisting the Government's efforts to: (a) secure
the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in sustaining a
high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-oriented
industrialization; (b) avoid the emergence of infrastructure bottlenecks;
and (c) complement industrial development with agricultural and rural
development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of the fruits
of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of life in the
rural areas.
20.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's four major development
banks. The Korea Long-Term Credit Bank has received $410.0 million, the
Korea Development Bank, $352.5 million, and the Small and Medium Industry
Bank, $145 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry, and the
Citizens National Bank, $30 million to meet the financial needs of the small
enterprises. The primary beneficiaries of these loans have been the numerous
industrial enterprises which have received funds through the financial
intermediaries. This has resulted in the overall development of the
industrial sector, and also contributed to the achievement of institutional
improvements as well as the Government's objective of decentralizing industry.
21.       As Korea's economy has continued to grow and the pace of
industrialization has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of
transport facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the
Government-s efforts to modernize and expand the transport sector, dating back
to 1962, has played an important role in these developments. Financing of
$432 million has been provided for seven railway projects designed to increase
thie railroad's capacity and improve its operations; four loans totalling
$334.5 million have been made for highway construction and paving of high
priority sections of the national network and for a countrywide maintenance
organization; and two loans amounting to $147 million have been provided for
the expansion of port facilities at Busan and Mugho.
22.       Korea-s paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together, these
projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs.



23.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural
sector, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial
sphere, is nevertheless commendable. The past 15 years have seen agricultural
output grow at an average 4.2% p.a., which has resulted in the country
becoming nearly self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made possible a
steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the 35% of
Korea's population who live in the countryside and rely primarily on agrarian
pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent $325.5 million for the
improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and the
provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural
products. In addition, $155 million has been provided for two rural infra-
structure projects in support of the Government's rural development program,
initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living
in the rural areas. In 1979, a $125 million loan was provided by the Bank to
help meet the growing demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation water in
the Han Basin southeast of the capital city, Seoul; reduce flood damage; and
generate electricity to augment and provide peaking capacity for Korea's power
system.
24.       The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through the project approved in January 1975 (Loan 1070-KO), has proved
successful. The project was designed to support Government policy by
financing high priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural,
southwest region. A loan of $65 million for a second project for the devel-
opment of the region was approved by the Executive Directors in September
1979.
25.       Excluding one project that was cancelled subsequently, IFC had, by
February 28, 1981, entered into 29 commitments, totalling $69.4 million (net
of participations and cancellations). Korea's industrial development programs
have required large capital expenditures in the private sector, a situation
which has enabled a substantially enhanced IFC presence in the past few years.
26.       A primary objective of the Bank's future lending to Korea is to
provide assistance in sustaining the growth momentum and in addressing the
emerging issues which the Korean economy is facing.
27.       In order to revitalize the economy while ameliorating inflation
and promoting social equity, the Government has taken a number of policy
measures such as those described in Part I above. These measures are incor-
porated into a structural adjustment program for which Bank support has been
requested through a series of structural adjustment loans. The Bank is
currently reviewing this request. The maturity of many of the Korean
institutions suggests that it would be appropriate to adopt a sector lending
approach in some areas along the lines of the loan for higher technical
education approved in 1980 which will contribute to the modernization and
improvement of the system of higher technical education so as to increase its
flexibility and responsiveness to the changing requirements of the economy.



28.       Another strand in the lending strategy is increased support of the
Government's efforts to spread the fruits of growth even more equitably by
the diversification and expansion of the output of the agricultural sector
and through nationwide development programs. To support such diversification
and expansion, projects are envisaged for land/water resource development, for
agricultural marketing, for low-income housing, and for the further
development of rural infrastructure and facilities in selected provincial
areas, which would enhance incomes and quality of life in the lesser-developed
regions of the country and would have a significant impact on the problems of
migration to the major metropolitan areas.
29.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given less emphasis than
in the past, the investments required are large and, thus, there is consider-
able support for this sector in the proposed lending program.
30.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt disbursed
and outstanding at the end of 1979 was about 11%, and its share of debt
service was of the order of 6% at that time. These ratios are expected to be
around 9% and 6% respectively by the mid-eighties.
PART III - PROJECT BACKGROUND
Agricultural Sector
31.       The value of Korean agricultural production grew at an average of
4.2%, in real terms, during the last decade, compared to a growth rate of 9.9%
for the economy as a whole. The more rapid growth of the other sectors has
meant a steady decline in the relative importance of agriculture. Nonethe-
less, agriculture continues to play a vital role in the economy especially
with regard to food supply, rural income and employment, and foreign exchange
earnings.
32.       Korean agriculture is founded on owner-operated smallholdings,
numbering about 2.2 million, with an average holding of about 1 ha. Only
about 22% of the total land area of 9.9 million ha is cultivable. Rice is the
major crop and takes about 56% of the cultivated area. The remainder, mostly
unirrigated upland fields, is used for various other crops such as barley,
wheat, rye, tobacco, fruits, and vegetables. Nearly 86% of the rice fields
are irrigated but due to the adverse climate, only one crop of rice is
possible per annum.
33.       The agricultural sector has been undergoing structural changes
characterized by trends towards: (a) rising domestic demand for



- 10 -
staple foodgrains; (b) shifting consumption patterns in favor of high-value
crops, fish and livestock products; (c) reopening of the gap between rural and
urban incomes; (d) growing farm labor shortages; (e) mounting deficits in the
operations of agricultural price support schemes; and (f) high domestic
production costs for the major crops and livestock, relative to international
costs. These trends also underlie the basic issues bearing on Korean
agricultural policies, priorities, and programs.
34.       Among the Government's principal objectives in the agricultural
sector traditionally has been the attainment of substantial self-sufficiency
in staple food crops and improvement of the welfare of the various segments of
society, especially the rural communities. Self-sufficiency in rice was
attained in 1975 and 1977. But since 1978 the level of self-sufficiency has
been falling; it was 86% in 1979 and the country had to import 503,000 tons of
rice. Mainly due to unfavorable weather, imports for 1980 are estimated to
have been considerably higher. Korea depends heavily on imports for wheat and
feedgrains. During 1970-79, wheat imports fluctuated between 1.6 and 1.9
million tons, while feedgrain imports rose sharply from 532,000 tons to 2.9
million tons, reflecting the rapid expansion in livestock development.
35.       Rising incomes have stimulated a marked and growing shift in
consumer demand from the traditional staples to high value crops and live-
stock products. Thus, the per capita consumption of rice fell from 136 kg
to 135 kg while that of fruits and vegetables rose from 83 kg to 240 kg
between 1970 and 1979. To increase the production of fruits and vegetables,
the Government has promoted the growing of these crops in selected regions;
measures to this end include provision of credit and improvement of
marketing, research and extension services. The proposed project would
reinforce these measures by providing credit to the farmers growing fruits
and vegetables.
36.       The migration of rural population to urban areas and the more rapid
growth of the nonagricultural sectors has continued to reduce the agricultural
labor force, thus creating shortages in the supply of farm labor, especially
during the peak seasons. To lessen this problem, the Government has been
supporting selective mechanization of farming activities, particuarly the peak
season tasks such as land preparation, transplanting and harvesting. The
financing of motorized sprayers under the project would contribute modestly
to reducing labor shortages among the orchard farmers.
37.       Primarily as a result of limited land resources and a rising
proportion of older farmers, labor productivity in agriculture has lagged
behind the other sectors, with the effect that whereas 35% of the labor force
is in agriculture, it produces only about 20% of GNP. In view of the virtual
absence of new cultivable land and the limited scope for multiple cropping,
efforts to increase agricultural productivity have focused on improving crop



- 11 -
yields and expanding the cultivation of high-value crops such as fruits and
vegetables. In addition, special programs have been instituted to promote
expansion of non-farm employment opportunities in the rural areas.
38.       The main thrust of both research and extension in Korea has been
directed towards foodgrains. Considerable achievements have been made,
attested by the fact that Korean rice yields are among the highest in the
world. Much research has also been done on mechanization, especially with
small farm machinery. While expanded research and extension activities on
fruits and vegetables are warranted, in keeping with the growing importance
of such crops, present R&E services are adequate for the requirements of the
proposed project.
39.       Agricultural marketing is predominantly in private hands.  The
cooperatives, however, play a significant and growing role in the marketing
of farm produce, particularly fruits and vegetables. Overall, the agricul-
tural marketing system performed relatively well in the past, and national
development programs have heretofore concentrated on production. Stemming
from the substantial increase in the volume of marketed farm produce coupled
with mounting marketing costs during the last decade, the traditional
marketing system has become a major bottleneck. The Government is aware of
this and intends to pay greater attention to agricultural marketing under the
next Five-Year Development Plan (1982-86). The Bank has been requested to
assist in this effort through a marketing loan now in preparation.
Project Subsector: Fruits and Vegetables.
40.       During 1979, fruits accounted for 3.5% and vegetables 22.1% of the
total value of agricultural production. The production of fruits more than
doubled from 422,000 tons in 1970 to 856,000 in 1979, while for vegetables it
more than trebled from 2.2 million tons to 8.2 million tons. At the same
time, from 1975 to 1979 the average wholesale prices of fruits rose by 206%
and of vegetables by 175%, compared to 169% for staple foodgrains.
41.       In addition to the shortage of land, the production of fruits and
vegetables is constrained by several factors. Few of the orchards have
irrigation facilities; fruit trees, therefore, suffer from moisture stress
during the summer months, resulting in slow growth, smaller fruits and poor
quality crop. Lack of irrigation also severely restricts vegetable yields in
the upland areas where most of the vegetables are grown. Because of inade-
quate storage, most of the farmers are compelled to sell their crops at the
harvest season when prices are depressed, and are unable to take advantage of
the higher prices during the off-season. Labor costs have been rising steeply
and are a serious constraint on such activities as orchard spraying. While
the production of vegetables under greenhouses has been expanding rapidly,
about 70% of the greenhouses are made of bamboo or wooden frames which are
unsatisfactory. These greenhouses are susceptible to severe damage from



- 12 -
snowfall and winds, and generally result in low yields due to poor plant
growth; they also require too many internal structures that limit the planted
areas and make crop care more difficult.
42.       The national policy is to increase the production of fruits and
vegetables to meet rising demand. The main strategy to this end aims at
expanding the area devoted to orchards, increasing yields by irrigation in the
upland areas, promoting techniques that enable the growing of vegetables in
the winter season, providing storage and marketing facilities, and fostering
selective mechanization.
Agricultural Credit
43.       The average total borrowings of farm households in 1979 were about
W 173,100 ($266). Whereas in the early 1960s, non-institutional credit
accounted for about 80% of rural credit, by 1979 it had fallen to 50%.
Interest rates for non-institutional credit range from 30 to 50% per annum
indicating the high demand for credit relative to the supply of loanable
funds. Much of the increase in institutional credit is the result of the
activities of the National Agricultural Cooperatives Federation (NACF).
44.       NACF and its member cooperatives are the principal source of
institutional agricultural credit. They accounted for about 94% of the
total institutional agricultural credit during 1979. The remaining 6% came
mostly from the deposit money banks. NACF has established a credit delivery
and recovery system that now covers over 90% of the farmers in the country.
The system has been sufficiently responsive to the varying credit needs in
keeping with structural changes of the agricultural sector.
National Agricultural Cooperatives Federation and Member Cooperatives
45.       Overall Organization.  NACF was established in 1961 as the apex
body of, until the beginning of this year, a three-tier cooperative structure,
with Kun (county-level) in the middle and primary (village-level) cooperatives
at the base. The structure also includes Special Cooperatives (SC), mainly
for horticulture and livestock. With effect from January 1981, the Kun
Cooperatives became branches of NACF. There are now 1,490 Primary Coopera-
tives (PC) and 142 SC. The cooperatives as a whole have a staff of about
41,000.
46.       Operating Scope.  NACF and its member cooperatives carry out a wide
range of activities, notably: banking, distribution of agricultural inputs
and machinery, processing and marketing of farm produce, extension services
and life and damage insurance. They play a vital role in the implementation
of the national agricultural policies and programs; in addition to the
provision of the institutional agricultural credit, they account for 15% of
the deposits under the banking system, market 21% of agricultural produce,
and act as the principal supply channel for 75% of farm chemicals, machinery
and equipment, and 100% of fertilizers.



- 13 -
47.       Corporate Policies.  As a general corporate policy and in keeping
with cooperative principles, NACF and its member cooperatives place greater
emphasis on rendering services to their clients than on maximizing profits.
They aim, however, at covering globally the operating and other costs by
internally generated revenues, or by subsidies in the case of goverment-
directed programs. In general, they rely on their banking operations to
offset any losses in other activities.
48.       Management and Staffing.  NACF is wholly autonomous in its
day-to-day operations and management. It is, however, subject to general
policy directives from the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF). Its
operational policies and procedures are formulated by a Steering Committee
consisting of the President of NACF (appointed by the President of Korea);
representatives of MAF, Ministry of Finance and Bank of Korea (BOK); and five
cooperative delegates elected by the General Assembly of NACF. The President
is assisted by two executive senior vice-presidents and six vice-presidents.
NACF has 149 branches spread throughout the country, and a staff of about
4,000. Staff training for all cooperative staff is done at the Central
Training Institute and five provincial centers owned by NACF. The facilities
are adequate, and the quality and general level of training are consistent
with the present and future needs of NACF and its member cooperatives.
Operating Functions
49.       Member Cooperatives.  The PCs provide the day-to-day contact with
the farmers. Their main functions include: extending short-term credit;
mobilizing rural savings through mutual saving and credit schemes;
distributing farm inputs and consumer goods; assembling and marketing members-
produce; and providing general technical advisory services. The SCs do not
engage in deposit mobilization, or lending. Their main functions are to
provide technical advisory services, supply farm inputs and assist their
members in marketing horticultural and livestock products.
50.       National Agricultural Cooperative Federation.  Hitherto NACF
played a relatively less important role in deposit generation and direct
lending than the PCs and KCs. During 1979, it generated only about 6%
of the total cooperatives deposits and its direct lending to subborrowers
accounted for about 19% of the total cooperatives- lending. However,
NACF-s role in these respects will increase substantially now that KCs have
become branches of NACF. NACF plays the key role in injecting governmental
and other external funds into the cooperative system, and in guiding and
coordinating the activities of these cooperatives. It is responsible for
the training of all cooperative staff. As the apex bank, it accepts
surplus deposits from the other cooperatives. In general, the member
cooperatives pass on to NACF those functions that are more efficiently
done in a centralized manner. Accordingly, NACF is directly responsible
for centralized procurement and overall distribution of farm inputs,
machinery, and essential consumer goods, and wholesale marketing of farm
produce in the main urban centers. It also operates life and damage



- 14 -
insurance for member farmers. In 1979, the total value of goods handled by
NACF and its member cooperatives amounted to W 1,018 billion (US$1.8 billion).
51.       Resources and Lending Operations.  The total resources of the
cooperatives as a whole amounted to W 2,805 billion (US$4.8 billion) in 1979.
Deposits, from the banking operations, are the major source of cooperatives
funds and accounted for 52% of total resources in 1979. Borrowings, mostly
from the Government and BOK, are the next largest source of funds. As a
result of a rapid rise in deposits, dependence on governmental funds declined
from about 36% in 1975 to 24% in 1979. Nearly 54% of the deposits in 1979
were generated by the KCs, of which 81% came from the urban areas. The PCs
generated 40%, and NACF the remainder.
52.       All cooperative borrowings are routed through NACF, with about 95%
originating from the Government (including government guaranteed foreign
loans) and BOK. These funds are made available to NACF for specified
purposes, notably: procurement of fertilizers and other farm inputs,
agricultural machinery and equipment, export financing, livestock development,
and rural housing.
53.       Most of the deposits are used for credit in the rural areas, mainly
short-term loans. But while the aggregate amount of deposits going to
agricultural loans has been rising, the proportion was still low at about
30% of the loans released during 1979. This situation was due partly to the
generally low interest rates especially for medium- and long-term agricultural
credit compared to the cost of deposit funds. To encourage the use of
deposits for agricultural credit, the Government has been providing NACF with
low cost funds for blending with deposits, thus reducing the average cost of
funds; it has also been extending subsidies to NACF to cover the difference
between the lending rates and the cost of deposits. These subsidies relate to
loans made mostly before 1980; the subsidies would therefore taper off as
these loans are amortized. Furthermore, during 1980, the Government raised
the interest rate payable for most agricultural medium- and long-term loans,
including those envisaged under the proposed project, from 12% to 18.5%
(subsequently reduced to the present 16.5%).
54.       Lending, Terms and Conditions.  The cooperatives as a whole granted
loans amounting to W 1,772 billion (US$3.1 billion) in 1979, compared to
W 626 billion in 1975. NACF directly accounted for about 19% of the total
lending, the KCs for 34% and the PCs for 47%. Loans exceeding W 1 billion
require real estate collateral in addition to chattel mortgage. Borrowers
with insufficient collateral may obtain a loan guarantee under the NACF Credit
Guarantee Fund. Interest rates vary widely primarily according to the source
and purpose of funds. The current interest rates range from 3% for forestry
development, financed out of Government funds, to 26% for short-term agri-
cultural credit financed from the deposits of the PCs. As stated in the
preceeding paragraph, for medium- and long-term agricultural credit, the
widely applicable rate is 16.5%, with the exception of certain types of farm
mechanization for which it is 21%.



- 15 -
55.       Loan Collection Performance.  Arrears have declined from 7.4% in
1975 to 3.6% of loans outstanding in 1979. Most of the arrears relate to the
short-term loans, particularly mutual credit loans which accounted for about
75% of the arrears at the end of 1979. However, arrears on mutual credit
loans have improved significantly from 33.4% (of mutual credit loans
outstanding) in 1975 to 9.8% in 1979. Arrears on all other types of loans
were only 1.1% of such loans outstanding.
56.       NACF Financial Condition and Performance.  During 1979, NACF's own
resources amounted to W 2,068 million (US$3.6 billion), with deposits, mostly
from KCs and PCs, accounting for 49.4%, borrowed funds 32.0%, other
liabilities 15.7%, and equity 2.8%. Total borrowings amounted to W 662.1
billion of which W 237 billion (35.8%) came from the Government and W 318
billion (48.0%) came from BOK. Foreign loans amounted to W 58 billion (8.8%).
57.       Although NACF's equity rose from W 21.5 billion in 1977 to W 57.8
billion in 1979, the debt-equity ratio (borrowings to equity) continued to be
high; however, it decreased from 19.7:1 in 1977 and 11.6:1 in 1979. The
debt-equity ratio is broadly similar to that of the other specialized banks in
Korea.
58.       NACF-s operating income has been rising steadily from W 1.9 billion
in 1975 to W 20.0 billion in 1979. Return on assets has also improved
appreciably from about 0.43% of average total assets in 1976 to 1.12% in 1979.
The improvement was due largely to an increase in profitability of banking
operations and reduced losses in nonbanking businesses. Most of these other
businesses consist of Government-sponsored programs. The commissions paid to
NACF from these programs are controlled by the Government in the interest of
keeping the cost to the farmers low; they are generally inadequate to cover
their share of total NACF overhead.
Previous Projects for Agricultural Credit
59.       The previous two Bank Group-assisted projects for agricultural
credit (Cr. 335-KO of September 29, 1972 for $10.5 million and Loan 1328-KO of
October 12, 1976 for $20.0 million) were successfully implemented slightly
ahead of schedule. A Project Performance Audit Report No. 2263, of November
1978, concluded that the first project fulfilled its primary goals of pro-
moting technological diffusion, diversifying agricultural activities and
improving NACF's institutional base for providing credit to the sector. Loans
benefitted 6,000 farmers primarily for orchard development and swine, poultry
and sericulture investment. The economic rates of return ranged from 20% to
over 100%. Although the evaluation of the second project has not been
completed, it has clearly contributed significantly to increased production of
fruits and vegetables by its 7,642 beneficiaries. Major components included
sprinkler irrigation, greenhouse and on-farm storage. As in the first
project, improvement of systems and training of staff resulted in the
effective participation of an increased number of KCs. Loan repayment for
both projects has been satisfactory and at the end of 1979, arrears were only
1.3% of outstanding project loans.



- 16 -
60.       The agricultural processing loan (Loan 994-KO of June 7, 1974 for
$13.0 million) through the Agricultural and Fishery Development Corporation
(AFDC) was also successfully implemented after an initial delay of about one
year. The slow implementation of the project was mainly due to two factors:
limitations concerning the type of subprojects for which AFDC could grant
credit; and lack of a suitable organizational structure within AFDC for
on-farm lending. The implementation pace improved after the project scope was
widened in September 1977 and after AFDC ceased lending for on-farm
development. A follow-up project ($50 million; Loan 1851-KO) became effective
in September 1980 and implementation has begun well. The Bank's loans for
agricultural credit and agricultural product processing complement one another
and have played an important role in the modernization of Korean agriculture.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
61.       The project was prepared by NACF.  It was appraised in June 1980.
Negotiations were held in Washington from March 9 to March 12, 1981;
the Korean delegation was led by Mr. Wei, Sung-Yong (Economic Counsellor,
Korean Embassy). Staff Appraisal Report (No. 1384-KO), dated March 19, 1981,
is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III.
Project Scope and Design
62.       The project would provide credit for the activities started under
the previous two NACF agricultural credit projects assisted by the Bank Group,
namely: greenhouses, on-farm storage, and sprinkler irrigation; and new
activities, notably: chilled storage, small-scale agro-processing facilities,
and marketing improvement for fruits and vegetables. The project would
address some of the important issues facing Korean agriculture. In par-
ticular, it would help to increase the production of the high value
commodities, particularly fruits and vegetables, in keeping with the changing
food consumption patterns.  It would contribute to some increase in the level
of farm productivity and also create off-season employment, and generally
contribute to the modernization of agriculture.
63.       The project-related activities would be spread throughout the
country. The project-s design and scope are geared to the present and future
capability of NACF in general and the KCs in particular. The subprojects have
been selected on the basis of current and projected needs in the various
subsectors, but NACF would have complete flexibility in determining the
relative share of the subprojects to be financed.  The mix of subprojects may
therefore change as warranted by shifts in the demand for credit. The mix
assumed in this report, as estimated by NACF, is intended to illustrate the
probable allocation to the subprojects and their respective rates of return.



- 17 -
Lending Procedures
64.       The Government would relend the proceeds of the loan to NACF under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Subloans would be made by NACF to selected Participating Cooperatives and to
direct subborrowers. The Participating Cooperatives would on-lend to farmers
or groups of farmers; however, subloans for chilled storage, packaging
materials and agro-processing subprojects would be restricted to subborrowers
which are member cooperatives. The Participating Cooperatives may also borrow
on their own account for speed sprayers.
Project Components
65.       The major items which would be financed by the project and the
assumed mix are as follows:
(a) Greenhouses for vegetables (30%): metal frames; polythylene films
and heat insulating covers; oil heaters; power sprayers; and working
capital for the first vegetable crop.  The average size of the
subprojects would be 300 pyeong (0.1 ha), and investment cost
would be W 5.8 million for new and W 3.4 million for replacement
greenhouses.
(b) Sprinkler irrigation for fruits and vegetables (22%): concrete-
lined wells; pumping station consisting of kerosene engine or
electric motors, centrifugal pump, pump engine base; sprinkler
system; and installation costs. The average investment cost per
subproject would be W 3.3 million for orchards, and W 2.0 million
for vegetables.
(c) On-farm storage for fruits (25%): building materials; construction
costs; and fixtures. The average investment cost per subproject
would be W 5.5 million, and average size 20 pyeong (66 sq m).
(d) Chilled storage for fruits and vegetables (14%): building
materials; construction costs; refrigeration equipment and related
fittings. Investment cost would be W 77.9 million and average
size about 100 pyeong (330 sq m).
(e) Speed sprayers for orchards (4%): at unit cost of W 7.9 million.
Each would have a capacity to spray 0 75 to 1.0 ha/hr, and would
service a group of farmers.
66.       The project would also finance other minor components (5%), such
as sorting and grading machines for fruits; small-scale processing facilities
for fruits and dairy products; fabrication of packaging materials for fruits
and vegetables (all by cooperatives); and backyard livestock development
(largely by individuals) including cattle fattening (two to three head of
cattle per household) in cases where crop residues and roughage feedstuff are
available in adequate quantities to ensure low-cost production.



- 18 -
Project Costs and Financing Arrangements
67.       The total project cost, based on market prices prevailing in July
1980, is estimated at W 74.2 billion (US$114.2 million) of which US$50.0
million or 43.8% would be foreign exchange cost. No contingencies have been
provided as it is expected that rising costs would be reflected in a reduction
of the number of subprojects. The proposed financing plan is shown in the
Loan and Project Summary. The Bank would finance 100% of foreign exchange
costs. Of the US$64.2 million balance of project costs, NACF would contribute
US$29.9 million (26.2%), and the beneficiaries US$34.3 million (30.0%)
(Section 2.04 of the draft Project Agreement). The Subsidiary Loan to NACF
would be repaid to the Government within the same repayment (and grace) period
and at an interest rate equal to the rate payable by the Government to the
Bank. The Government will bear the foreign exchange risk. (Section 3.01 (b)
of the draft Loan Agreement.)
Procurement
68.       Greenhouses and on-farm storage involve simple structures, too
widely scattered to attract international or even domestic contractors from
outside of the immediate subproject area. They would therefore be constructed
by local contractors and, in some cases, by the owners themselves. The
agro-processing, packaging materials, and chilled storage subprojects would
also be too small for international bidding; many of the foreign firms in the
chilled storage and other machinery and equipment business are locally
represented and would have the opportunity to promote sales. There are many
local suppliers of sprinkler irrigation equipment and prices are generally
competitive. Speed sprayers are also available through many private channels.
Their procurement would be spread over several years and scattered over too
many buyers to make it worthwhile for external bidders. Procurement would be
as follows:
(a) greenhouses, on-farm storage, sprinkler irrigation systems, and
speed sprayers: through shopping from normal commercial sources; in
cases where cooperatives themselves are the sub-borrowers, NACF
would require them to obtain price quotations from at least three
suppliers; and
(b) construction, machinery and equipment for agro-processing,
packaging materials, and chilled storage: through local
competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures acceptable
to the Bank; foreign competitors would be eligible to bid.
Disbursements
69.       The project subloans  commitment period would be four years start-
ing in the second quarter of 1981. It is expected that the project would be
fully disbursed by December 1985. Disbursement of the Bank loan proceeds
would be at 63% of the subloans made by cooperatives and NACF under the
project (Section 2.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). Application for
reimbursement would be supported by Statements of Expenditures (SOE) certified



- 19 -
by the NACF Project Manager. All other related supporting documents
(including copies of contract document, suppliers' invoices, evidence of
shipment and payment for agro-processing, chilled storage and packaging
material subloans) would be retained in one central location and made
available on request for review by Bank staff during supervision missions.
The SOE would be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank (Section 4.01(d) of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Implementation and Management
70.       Organization and Management.  NACF in general and its Technical Unit
(TU) in particular would be responsible for the overall implementation of the
project. Some of the direct lending would be carried out by selected
member cooperatives. The TU was established under the first project. It is
headed by a Project Manager answerable to the General Manager of the Foreign
Loan Department, who in turn reports to one of the NACF vice-presidents.
71.       Under the previous two projects, the KCs were wholly responsible
for loan processing and disbursement, while the TU responsibilities included:
(a) preparing the annual lending program; (b) supervising and monitoring of
project progress; (c) providing technical advice and training of the Loan
Appraisal officers (LAOs) of the Kun cooperatives in subproject appraisal and
supervision; (d) arranging withdrawal of project funds from Government/Bank;
and (e) preparing quarterly progress reports for submission to the Bank.
These arrangements have worked efficiently. They would, therefore, be
continued under the proposed project but with two modifications in addition
to the fact that the KCs are now NACF's branches: first, TU would be
directly responsible for evaluating and monitoring all subprojects for
chilled storage, packaging material, and agro-processing (Section 2.05 (b)
of the draft Project Agreement); second, a few Primary Cooperatives would be
selected on the basis of criteria formulated by NACF and acceptable to the
Bank to undertake lending under the project (Section 2.03(a) of the draft
Project Agreement).
72.       At present, the TU staff consists of a Manager, a Deputy Manager,
five senior and four junior technical staff. The proposed project includes
new and technically complex subprojects (chilled storage, packaging material,
and agro-processing) for which the TU has had no prior experience. It is
therefore proposed to strengthen the TU by: (a) a more systematic and regular
back up from the NACF's technical departments, and (b) appointment of an
agricultural engineer for its staff. The agricultural engineer would be
mainly responsible for supervising the technical aspects of agroprocessing,
packaging material, and chilled storage subprojects; he would also review the
engineering aspects of sprinkler irrigation, and liaise with the various
outside specialized technical agencies (Section 2.05 of the draft Project
Agreement).
73.       The AFDC is the agency primarily responsible for financing
agro-processing and chilled storage investments in Korea. Of the $50 million
Bank loan to AFDC (see para. 60 above), 40% is earmarked for small-scale
borrowers. However, cooperatives cannot avail themselves of AFDC credit since
they are legally prohibited from borrowing from sources other than NACF. The



- 20 -
proposed project would therefore extend loans to cooperatives for viable
agroprocessing and chilled storage subprojects. To avoid over-investment and
wasteful competition among their borrowers or existing enterprises, NACF and
AFDC would keep each other fully informed of their lending proposals and
accordingly coordinate their lending. In case of failure to reach agreement
between NACF and AFDC, they would refer the matter to MAF for final ruling
(Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement and 2.05 of the draft Project
Agreement).
74.       Monitoring and Evaluation System.  NACF has a monitoring and eval-
uation system which generally is satisfactory but would need be improved in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank within one year after loan effectiveness,
to generate cost and benefit and technical coefficient data at more frequent
intervals rather than at the end of the project (Section 2.05(f) of the
draft Project Agreement).
Subloan Terms and Conditions
75.       NACF would submit to the Bank for review and approval at least the
first five subprojects each for chilled storage, packaging material, and
agroprocessing subprojects, and all subprojects for which loans exceed
US$500,000 (Section 2.05(c) of the draft Project Agreement and Section 2.04
of the draft Loan Agreement).
76.       The interest rate payable by the subborrowers would be at least
16.0% per annum, or such other minimum as may be determined from time to time
by the Borrower in consultation with NACF and the Bank, sufficient to ensure
that the interest rate would:
(a)  cover the cost of project funds to the Participating Cooperatives,
plus a margin to cover the Participating Cooperatives credit
administration costs under the project, currently estimated at
3% of subloans granted;
(b)  be equal to the rate payable for local funds for similar
subprojects implemented by NACF and Member Cooperatives; and
(c)  be positive in real terms over the period of the loan repayment.
To this end, the Borrower in consultation with NACF and the Bank would, from
time to time and at least once a year, review the interest rate payable by
the subborrowers under the project and take such measures as may be necessary
to adjust the interest rates so they meet the criteria indicated above
(Section 3.03 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement and Schedule 2B and C of the
draft Project Agreement).
77.       The interest rate payable by the Participating Cooperatives to NACF
would be at least 13.0% per annum or such other minimum as may be determined
by the Borrower in consultation with NACF and the Bank, taking into account
the results of the review conducted in accordance with para. 76 above, and
also the need to provide an interest rate sufficient to cover NACF-s weighted



- 21 -
average cost of project funds, plus a margin to cover NACF-s credit adminis-
tration costs under the project, currently estimated at 1% of subloans
granted.
78.       Under the previous two projects for agricultural credit (Cr. 335-KO
and Loan 1328-KO), Special Funds were established into which repayments by
subborrowers are being deposited. These funds are relent to PCs for on-
lending to subborrowers at interest rates and terms specified in the relevant
Agreements (9% p.a. to PCs and 12% p.a. to subborrowers). The earlier Agree-
ments provide for revision of these rates upon agreement by the Bank, Borrower
and NACF. Under the proposed loan the terms for relending from the Special
Funds would be made identical to those which apply to the proceeds of this
loan (Section 2.11 of the draft Project Agreement).
79.       The repayment period for the subloans would be in accordance with
the projected cash flow as determined by NACF. For typical subprojects, the
present cash flow projections indicate an average repayment period ranging
from five years (including one year of grace) for on-farm storage subprojects,
to eleven years (including five years of grace) for orchard sprinkler irri-
gation subprojects (Schedule 2, Part C.3 of the draft Project Agreement).
Based on these projections and given that the project funds would be committed
over four years, the repayment of the project loan by NACF to the Government
would require a period of 15 years, including three years of grace.
Benefits and Justifications
80.       The major benefits expected from the project would include in-
creased farm incomes as a result of:
(a) increased production of fruits and vegetables in response to the
rapidly rising demand for these high-value commodities;
(b) reduced wastage and spoilage of farm produce through the provision
of on-farm and chilled storage, which would enable producers to
take advantage of higher prices during the off-season, as well as
lessening price fluctuation for both producers and consumers; and
(c) creation of off-season employment in winter by growing vegetables
in greenhouses.
81.       The rates of return are satisfactory for all the subprojects.
The financial rates of return range from 23% for orchard sprinkler irrigation
to 83% for apple storage, while the economic rates of return range from 24%
for orchard sprinkler irrigation to 78% for apple storage. The aggregate
financial rate of return is 42% and economic rate of return is 41%.
Project Risks
82.       No major risks are anticipated.  Sensitivity analysis demonstrates
all the subprojects are able to sustain a 10% reduction in revenues or



- 22 -
increase in costs and still give satisfactory rates of return; only new green-
house subprojects exhibit an unsatisfactory rate of return if both revenues
and costs respectively fall and rise by 10%.  Nevertheless, the returns for
orchard sprinkler irrigation subprojects are known to be highly sensitive to
yield responses as determined by the moisture retention capacity of the soil.
Furthermore, the returns for speed sprayer subprojects significantly depend on
full utilization which may not be realized given the small average size of
individual orchards in Korea.  The risk pertaining to the sprinkler irrigation
would be minimized by ensuring adequate technical advisory services to the
farmers, while the risk pertaining to the speed sprayers would be minimized
through group utilization under the cooperatives or other groups.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
83.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the National Agricultural
Cooperative Federation and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distribu-
ted separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the Loan and
Project Agreement are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of
Annex III. Execution of the Project Agreement between the Bank and the NACF
and of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and the NACF would
be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Sections 6.01 (b) of the
draft Loan Agreement). The draft Project Agreement (Section 2.11) amends the
provisions for interest rates contained in the Project Agreement for Loan
1328-KO to assure that interest rates charged by NACF and PCs on loans made
from Special Funds would be the same as those charged under the current
Loan. An exchange of letters between the Borrower and the Association would
amend Credit 335-KO to have the same effect.
84.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
85.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 6, 1981



ANNEX I
-23-                                                        Page 1 of 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE1RAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             98.5
AGRICULTURAL      22.7                                MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 180.0       420.0   1500.0                  1114.7                 1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     258.0       815.0   1359.0                  842.4                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     24.7        31.4      36.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.7        40.7       52.1                  39.1                   63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      50.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        66.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      251.0       319.0     372.0                 376.1                    28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1154.0      1371.0   1612.0                 2350.4                    81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.9        41.0      35.9                  40.4                   41.4
15-64 YRS.                         53.8        55.7      60.3                  56.2                    54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.3         3.3       3.8                   3.4                     3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9         2.4       1.9                    2.4                    2.7
URBAN                              5.9         6.5       5.2                    4.1                    4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    41.0         30.0      21.0                   28.7                   34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     13.0        10.0       8.0                    7.9                    8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1/c       2.6       1.4                    1.9                    2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       672.0    686.0
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)    ..        42.0      43.9                  39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0        99.0    115.0                  116.9                   106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   94.0       110.0     119.0                 108.9                   107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          55.0        65.0      73.0                  60.3                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        7.0         8.0      15.0                   18.8                   33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     13.0         8.0        5.0                   5.3                    8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   54.0         59.0      63.0                   63.0                   63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           62.0        43.0      37.0                  52.8                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        58.0      62.0                   42.4                   65.9
URBAN                               ..        84.0      80.0                   62.1                   80.4
RURAL                               ..        38.0      36.0                  29.7                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        25.0      61.0                   52.8                   62.3
URBAN                               ..        59.0      68.0                  71.1                    79.4
RURAL                               ..          ..      50.0                  42.4                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3000.0      2110.0   1955.0                 4120.1                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3220.0/d    2170.0/d   510.0                2213.6                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2482.0      1900.0    1569.0                 819.4                   480.3
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        14.9        ..                   28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.6         5.3       5.1
URBAN                              5.4         5.0       4.9
RURAL                              5.6         5.5       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.5         2.3       2.0
URBAN                              2.8         2.7       2.1
RURAL                              2.4         2.2       2.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             28.0        49.9        ..
URBAN                             67.3        92.4        ..
RURAL                             12.0        29.9      64.9



24                                                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MEDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  94.0       105.0      111.0                   98.6                      99.7
MALE                  99.0        106,0     101.0                   99.2                     101.0
FEMALE                89.0        10500     111.0                   97.7                      99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  27.0        43.0       88.0                   55.S                      34.4
MALE                  38.0         52.0      96.0                   60.7                      33. 5
FEMALE                14.0         34.0      78.0                   49.9                      34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  14.0          16.0       16.0                   13.7                      38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             58.0        57.0       49.0                   34.6                      30.5
SECONDARY                           34.0        37.0       38.0                   28.5                      14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         70.6        87.0       93.0                   85.8                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4         2.0        3.5                    9.0                      43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          32.0       131.0      144.0                  118.9                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.3        14.0       66.0                   39.4                      84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCELATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   69.0       138.0      173.0                     ..                      63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0            5.0       2.2                    4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL tABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       8237.0     10978.3   13767.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    25.8        32.7       33.0                   36.S                      22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               66.4        51.0       41.0                   51.9                      37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  9.3         20.1       37.0                   21.9                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.4        35.0       36.6                   39.1                      31.5
MALE                                  49.5         46.8      48.8                   48.5                      48.9
FEMALE                                17.2         23.0      24.2                   29.6                      14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.4       1.1                     1.1                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVID BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1/e        17.1       16.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.37e        44.5       45.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.777         7.1        5.7
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0/e        17.7       16.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (UsS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      320.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      270.0                  192.1                     190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                              ,      270.0/f                   ,,                     474.0
RURAL                                 ..           .      227.07?                182.5                     332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           .       18.0
RURAL                                 ..           .       11.0                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are popolatoin-eighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1950-55;  /d Registered, not all practicing in the country; /e 1965., /f Recent estirmates are 5370 and
$310 respectively.
Most recent estimate  of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
/g  For 1975 it is estimated that there were 2.5 persons per room
in urban areas.
/h  Recent estirate nf total labor force  (thou.,ands) is 14206.D of
which agriculture is 35.8X and industry 30.1%.
Most recent estinate of GNP per capita is for 1979, a11 other
data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 25 -                                                              AE
Page 3 of S
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS0
Notes:. Although the data ge drawn from  sources generaly judged she e-   no,hotteic ond olelahle, Is  shul  also he notod that they may not be lece-
nationaly compaobhh  houeof she hank of  _eadaedieed defi.ui.heean  bucposu   y dIfferos                         .toorle  Inclcts hedta Tedtee,sn-
thoes  oufu1 to d-ssihe orders of _ageltade.,Idos   eee   n   hrootnmrl   us  differncestetssd-1coutr Ies.d,.   h   .                                              I   ..
Thof   freo  group  non (1  sh  smcutry group of the  .j. as          to .on.   an,   d (2) a countrly g,ony etchsmwa   theaeeeIosete   h   our   0s
of  hesnje     = nre   (e Iep     r'aptlNopu  0t   oosrs   oe   here "Middle UIooNorth Africa ond Middle fusR                           uhsnhnce   fecea
solo-olarlf tlles.Inth  rfseur  gop dote the av Serae  ar  population weighe    rithec moneotuc                                           lno  and..  shove. of when.a
loas  al  o  te  ootrem    th gou  hasl dec  too. .h.. Sndoo          ..Nn. the coerg o.oat.n..ogh  idctoos dePends o  thetavallbhlhity of
daean   sno   uftn  coii       Eusheeerielh   eatn   oeaeso   neIdcaoIsf tthr    heneergshr   rl   sfodn  uprIgtetau
Ofa...aldit-o                                                            l       fo- teiai   fagiorondre   gd-tprstyorprannl   taaaca  per.l  arTha Person-ge - Poplcive  dIide  hy sune  tfpoein.
kit-h- geld ..... t. lie                P-hy   ill lesa  eNs phy rc.en .                dstahddshy ts provldiP p  ..epal  emtedha
£90011R CONASTPNPR12019An7l7euaso    f  oeccileeg   (col                                         rare.. se beno rloded_.-  hovl heeppl-itals,hwve  helasbelb   d  ai
an.ld lgie  ptoem,_        naturalo ga sold hydos- ti. nceradgohra                c-           cnesoPemnnl   ce  e   yapy is(a  bya. meica  (ktotat,
1970t2   in h1 og9s7f9d        leoiaetIpecaIt;191 1977,7 and.) 1970.                           nurse,l miwfe  etc.)~ ch pic    t ufer t-pain _     tsamd  p            res hpit     .Ide
data,                                                                  limited rouge ef medical fahibitie          eeeateireld hrepeem 1 aetdamt
POPOLADION   il VITAL NITOiTUCN                                        hoeIte loclo  rert    hspil  and medbical  td Pstmtly stetm fm.
UNRban POpulaPTION icERensITAf total)-I ..ati. of. uba  to_totlpapatiot
d ifferent deintlIons of urhan, area  hay afc upthlt  of deta                          hmpogInusi                                                     ..d.h-tbII  vId
amngouI ie;  90,190,nd  97   at.                                                             veaelir-f geee                  fdprsn   c b hi esphy ldl -    uots]b, ashe, ad smeal-t
Popuyfiuttle    g raaiofs  A_gusol  cmtee  fa  ropoftmIidal   hochs  lni9q7es
Pouato   n  er  99-  urespPu-e- -Pioetiams are7ase  on1.. o  theIr maim mea.ls.  A  or     o   ogr  a   rmy  e  aimlddh
total popalsion hy ag  and men ad their mitedi-y andfertilitylrtes.lthe husehold fo  statisticl perpases
loghf  oneosnoyus  itc  iureniegwit  contr's  er   upln toom  he  ofparanapoeroe  ha atllrAe  end  rairal oneep.itdnovstletl-
leveP.pl, adifmal  11d0Y  o    li . enetsyeAh.leof   trl 7796.1 y1s9.0Th  pur- o1978s,rep itivl. B -  t.ug  macAd  m-reaet. etrditose a
meesfo   etlty rat  alsot have threef levels aeto iogdole  inunrupe h.panel. d~ddb   h                                                  fb
feshsyoodngs   nom   eeledpatfml  puuegpromac.                                    acess  iccllcrbeen    fdelim)     oa,  ra,adma 
ma tee cansltint   Thi  it. aedblovd  thly afe-frIliy            tradelineCo            Ajuteterlloi  ato
th   rplceen  lve  o  oitme rprduci rteobenb geneatIn                         Ptna.  ac..hoald -  totital,mle anpfmle-ipa.tta,metad.eml
of onmen. ep-so      - usd0  enacity.  lThe  -tatense   pop'latian    .. thee-wow            orlla- of all-age  atteptaylvl-peruaaLfcemte
In-h   er200   n   h  rare of dlanlifs of fertilitygmrs to replae-                           yeas   hocadjte    f at      1 diffren   laudh  of. primac pida-Cit fee
meat level.                                                                      cau7nor -..Th  p..- d_ les~  wi.thaivaree~.l eaaine sereImme  ma. ese.10pie
a..-f,  -yloe ban base reached.-ig d.Ii. .                                               .ec..dar  scP:.       eal   al  n  fmle-Cwue    t chews  smeedme
Pop  tlityan .Density                                                                          edusac-a1-1qadepest feils four ymaeefef appA.v.d.primacy imtfemetiaet
caca   ars                                                                                 enueiltly of 12.   f  h..i-  ..i.ti.  Ca 17 year .of age;c1irsg,mmc.oet   r   ieal
Pete. itt.y  agr1-iculura  lan  t- Copee  Ce p ahevt.  th.or saiculera gland..                f  o ecud.11l.,.d-.   .Iig                 p      .y
fpuaieIroe   as(pset   tetal - dameaIl growth onP.tes of total-. mid-                           rimaygae   ser tdc    tleel  drividd b  meber  sO Ceenhee- of  she
yearh poplaton  far0 19dth-60. 1660-71, and197-79.lcorrespondinglevels
P _aalnGot   ae(psst      ra       auatrwhroto   ra  pope-                                   Adul  biteo  ro.ted f-ndiff)-t LIterate  odft  (ab-le Ce teed adwrte
lo -ttion   fr  95-6Y   1969-70        .  -. and h1970-70p.iti.                                 - e lierreesag  of i-tl-  adultippuaio ae  15  eceW ad0 star.
Crude girth Pate (ocr thousand) - AnnualppilIve.births-per.thuasofd of mid-year
pouainC 90.     92,ad17   ae                                                                                 t.t.1 Itd       b.-
Irate       k. Msedcidn as-Averagei.  P-a  efl daughters      oa  sill hear) iofmilitar                               Itvehioles.o    p..dpi-                           -t
he  nrml  epodntvepeio   I  se  eprinos  rset  geapoi h  lo-       tehaReeler  (erthuan  rnuatur  -al  tpe  o  rncresParre.
tiIyrtes"        sal     v-eraeae   nigi   90   90   r   97                                 hrodoaettca gesea  publI  perb t-oneen   of  uplatos  smsiadst emlh-
famil P laen  -              1ses(p dn u-  married cones)- Pfreuag  ofmried                   .ou.tils aolishe t     ice7 sing.   g;t-        .d.                       - l
Ono   fPa   rdnnc   e   ciaf96-1li      ne  o   e   uieana than  f "ail   eeerl tebtesef s-weppse"  def' hodei                                                   etdnlp
nationa.ltavraef ps1dec6er 7prIce  weiht;  96-6,178. an19Mdt.ot mo.bildeirt.1 1.
emesgy- eqvate   ofbme   fod  up        Aeevslsl  im~ onutry pof cb pits               LAdB POliCE        ,     .(tc.)-  i...d1.(bl   .ld.    i.
pust day.   Available supplie  eayhedd    trpodrhm   iprales                             Ttl9ho7oc0(husd)      cnmo78                        siv    esm. .ld
houehldleel 19701-65  1970, ad   17   aa                                              ihigateonee  fitllbr  ot;16,170ad17 aa
G..Rpulse    ntie,o-    ha  10. gras sould behtanimIe prt in.Ths  stea                       acti ity           Ith-ar   rmutdt  tctal, mal, d.  female.. ih--0ea  as
erda are lower than thoedisR.ofi70 gre..aPof tulel pseAllsie ando2-3 grams ef
Worldt fooI  Pns;   1961 l~ -65,1970 sad 1977 data.                                         190,1906ed  97   at.9heear0I.Pepetiipee1r9maef7rtt
Perl osise.r..    h  aetlyfea  eima ad  ls -  ProtIn supply of  fondtde-                      age-sex. t struo.r..o  th popul.-thie,sd lugf Oe p.ltad.;   Ad 0mmti-
matse    e t, hettoimtftsources.i
ue, grou  1hd-6  ase  se g ohi5d4e in . t    -h. age g bia;tfo-met- devloing tree--.d  ...i) TV- ir   olb..tt
OIALTh                                                               PerogeCage~~~~~~~~ of Prtilleicoo(o iin tlu-   cee  cu  kind)-   hem.a  by4 rhi-ts
ife- ofaFootad afudtfitc  (years) - Ae6ag7membe  of yIdrs of  lif e.Pit.ing.                   of hooeuholdfu.d2                                                ..di.lp
at b..irt;190  197Di sAd 1978 data..d                                                        li.ti.   -t   p-il
Ina t  MrtliyOas  re-1eea)--nma dIteofimL.euneroe  ea                                 rrrn1001  ROP
abe. o  pespl  (Corahl. eth bl, admel w.ti  th ematb  sIErse tofe sae                         ariinsl Atedequte diet-C,t pic resetilme-edrqi                       ehmt
wter Itrb as  hotd oa  peteteP.d. bocehefe-h spings  alyd.smnr  well) a                    icimate A_ ahsPoat   see   m                        Bro) ext  rm te) - abe sA   s
coIievda big withIn7 r-tiekeble arouse  of shot heuse. . Osi-raral steer1
hae  o  ped    daseoshoet    po  of the day hot o             fusobieg the             retimated f..alt.r    amAslt   ovryInm   .v    eret      r
do Out                                                                                      and rural -fPerreftdof pupllution(lebsa and rued) whoeare."ibeelete peer"
ruual- Member haf p.I, (tonl,k urban aedlil rurl)dearned hyceoretad
disposalas p...esagme o       thi   epcIve...rulatintna bti..creta                    -    fl . dIe-                foodsom -Iic  n  OralDt  Donte
pusltmy  tarhadetthe.. oidertientddipc,sr tp-or, siboey -rehtmes                            1r97i8Acyss  n doeitaOmtsmm
.1,   197 d.t.i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ocae 10
of human seosea and staste-eator by wate-borne syetem   orfthe assao
pi   oiia  n  simlresaaio.



-26-                                                            ANNEX I
Population:  38,197 (mid-1980, thousands)                                                                                           Page 4 of 5
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 1,549 (1980)
KOREA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                             Annual growth rates (%) at constant prices
current prices)                       Actual                                        Projected
Indicator                           1980/a           1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/a   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product            59,177           13.5     9.7    10.6       6.4    -5.7        6.0      7.5      8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0
Agriculture                      9,754          10.7      2.1      9.6      6.7   -22.0       20.0      2.5      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0
Industry                        24,396          19.6    16.1    20.7        8.4    -0.4        4.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Services                        25,027          10.6      9.5    10.8       4.1    -3.2        2.2      7.6     7.9      7.9      7.9      7.9
Consumption                       42,215.           8.8      7.1    11.0      7.4    -0.9        3.2      4.5      5.0      5.4     5.7      6.2
Gross investment                  17,889            8.0    24.0    35.9    17.5   -23.8         10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Exports of GNFS                   21,145           43.0    25.7    17.5    -3.6        9.6      11.6    12.0    13.0    13.0    13.0    13.0
Imports of GNFS                   25,846          26.9    23.8    29.1        8.6    -6.8        7.7      8.0      9.0    10.0    11.0    12.0
Gross national savings            12,846           42.3    17.3    14.9       2.4   -19.5
PRICES
GDP deflator (1975 - 100)                        116.3   135.8   164.6   197.4   250.3           -        -        -       -        -        -
Exchange rate (US$1 -)                           484.0   484.0   484.0   484.0   607.6           -        -        -        -       -        -
Export price index (1975 - 100)                  112.8   120.2   137.2   161.2   168.7
Import price index (1975 - 100)                  103.0   103.9   108.4.  137.3   175.2
Terms of trade index (1975 - 100)                109.5   115.7   126.6   117.4    96.3
Share of GDP at market prices (X)                        Average annual increase (2)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant prices)
1960    197n    1975    1980    1985    1990          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              8.2        9.3        7.9        7.5        8.0
Agriculture                       36.7    26.9    24.5    16.5    15.5    12.1             4.3        4.8       -1.2         6.1        3.0
Industry                          20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3    43.8    47.7            15.9       15.0       12.6        8.8        10.0
Services                          43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    40.7    40.2             8.6        8.3         7.9        6.7        7.9
Consumption                       85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4    67.2    61.8             6.5        6.9         7.5        4.7        6.2
Gross investment                  11.0    26.9    29.0    30.2    33.9    37.2            21.2        10.6       13.6       10.0       10.0
Exports of GNFS                    3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7    45.0    56.3            25.7        22.6       15.0       13.1       13.0
Imports of GNFS                   12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7    46.1    55.2            18.4       14.5       15.7         9.1       12.0
Gross national savings /b          8.0    19.5    20.6    21.7    24.5    27.8             17.2       14.6        9.7       10.8       10.0
As 2 of GDP
1960       1970       1975       1980         Labor Force in 1980           Millions    (X)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                Agriculture                   4.7       32.2
Current revenues                           18.5       17.8       17.9       19.9            Industry                     3.9       27.1
Current expenditures                       14.3       13.1       15.4       15.6            Services                     5.1        35.5
Current surplus                             4.2        4.7        2.5        4.3           Unemployed                    0.7        5.2
Capital expenditure                         3.4        6.4        6.4        5.9
Foreign financing                           ...        1.0        1.3        1.0                Total Labor Force       14.5      100.0
1960-70          1970-75           1975-80           1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (X)                                  8.7               9.3               7.6               7.5              8.0
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (2)                        5.9              6.9               5.2               5.6              6.3
Annual eniergy consumption growth rate (2)                  14.2              9.6              12.3/c             ...               ...
ICOR                                                        2.1               2.9               4.8               4.2              4.4
Marginal savings rate (X)                                  24.9              29.7              33.7              33.0             33.0
Import elasticity                                           2.2               1.6               2.0               1.2              1.5
/a  Preliminary.
/b Including net transfers.
/c 1975-79.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
March 1981



-27-
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
Population      :  38,197 (mid-1980 thousands)
GDP per capita: US$ 1,549 (1980)
KOREA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                       Actual                                           Projected
1970    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/a    1981    1982    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services          1,379   5,909   9,467  13,059  17,124  19,487  21,630    24,139  27,036  39,010  71,873
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.           882   5,028   7,821  10,035  12,678  14,694  17,313    19,321  21,640  31,224  57,528
Imports of goods and services         2,180   7,991  10,119  13,272  18,651  24,163  27,510    29,628  31,999  42,587  75,052
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.         1,804   6,670   8,407  10,517  14,436  19,266  22,178    23,886  25,797  34,332  60,505
Net transfers                            178      225      345      222     467      439      388        400      400      400      400
Current account balance                 -623  -1,858    -307          8  -1,060  -4,236  -5,492    -5,089  -4,563  -3,177  -2,779
(% of GNP)                            (-7.2)  (-9.2)  (-1.1) (+O-02)  (-2.2)  (-7.1)  (-9.5)           (-8.3)  (-6.9)  (-3.8)  (-2.3)
Direct investment                         66       53       75       73      61       16      ...        134      143      175      225
MLT loans (net)                          242   1,303   1,257   1,464   2,702   2,934          ...      6,193   5,209   3,902   4,204
Official                               147      486     663      594      663      853      ...      2,193   2,288   2,159   1,935
Private                                 95     817      594      870   2,039   2,081        ...      4,005   2,921   1,743   2,269
Other capital                            191   1,111       532       -1       -1   2,291      ...        100      100      100      100
Change in reserves                       -57    -376  -1,314  -1,372    -707    -898          .. .    -1,343    -889  -1,000  -1,750
International reserves                   610      797   1,985   2,992   2,828   3,112   3,101          4,444   5,333  10,647  18,763
Reserves as months imports               3.4      1.2      2.4      2.7      1.8     1.5      1.4        1.8      2.0      3.0      3.0
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements
official grants                          -        -        -       -        -        -
Concessional loans                    123      123      238      163      184      193
DAC                                  122     108      226      132      167      173
OPEC                                  -        -        -       21       13       20
IDA                                   1       14       10        9        3        -
Other                                -3         1       2        1        -        -
Non-concessional loans                 317   1,580   1,579   2,091   3,756   4,496
Official export credits               18     151      132      262      219      340
IBRD                                  7      189      286      190      321      476
Other multilateral                     5      88       85       86       88       91
Private                             287   1,151   1,078   1,553   3,127   3,639
External debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                         1,797   6,082   7,377   9,160  12,461  15,068
official                            613   2,780   3,482   4,244   5,139   5,790
Private                           1,184   3,302   3,896   4,916   7,322   9,278
lUndisbursed                           902   1,628   3,459   4,793   4,295   5,342
Debt service
Total service payments                 268     732      987   1,288   1,933   2,731
Interest                            70      332      427      498      695      976
Payments as % exports GNFS           20.5    12.6    10.6    10.1    11.6    14.3
Average interest rate on new loans (X)
Official                              4.5      7.9      7.1      7.9      7.4      7.6
Private                                7.1     9.3      8.3      8.4      9.7    11.5
Average maturity of new loans (years)
Official                             28.0    19.3    21.7    18.3    19.2    17.1
Private                              10.9      5.7      8.7      8.8      9.3      8.9
As % of debt outstanding
at end of most recent
year (1979)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within  5 years                           52.4
Maturities due vithin 10 years                            84.9
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                            7.2
/a Preliminary
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
March 1981



ANNEX II
-.28-                                     Page 1 of 12 pages
KORtEA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIOtNS IN 7TE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of February28, 1981)
oan or                                                                                Amount ($ million)
redit       Calendar                                                                 (less cancellations)
umber         Year         Borrower             Purpose                         Bank    TW    IDA    Undisbursed
wenty-eight loans and eight credits fully disbursed                           1,066.52  40.0  106.81
096          1975    Republic of Korea        Education III                       22.5                         1.66
203          1976    Republic of Korea        Highways III                        90.0                         2.19
319          1976    ADC                      Irrigation                         29.0                        20.47
338          1976    KDB II                   Dev. Finance Co.                    75.0                         0.39
364          1977    ADC                      Irrigation                          95.0                        57.35
401          1977    Republic of Korea        Ports II                            67.0                       46.68
466          1977    Republic of Korea        Heavy Mlachinery                    80.0                        23.95
474          1977    Republic of Korea        Vocational Training                23.0                          6.41
503          1978    ADC                      Agriculture/Irrigation             36.0                         32.88
507          1978    SMIB II                  Dev. Finance Co.                    55.0                       ' 0.24
530          1978    Republic of Korea        Rural Infrastructue II              95.0                       42.73
542          1978    Republic of Korea        Railway VI                        120.0                          4.59
574          1978    KDB III                  Dev. Finance Co.                  110.0                         15.32
635          1978    KDFC VII                 Dev. Finance Co.                  100.0                          6.66
640          1978    Republic of Korea        Highways IV                       143.0                       110.85
666          1979    Republic of Korea        Chungju llultipurpose             125.0                        103.57
676          1979    Republic of Korea        Electronics Technology              29.0                        19.81
749          1979    SMIB III                 Dev. Finance Co.                    60.0                        20.22
758          1979    Republic of Korea        Second Gwangju Regional             65.0                        63.15
774          1979    Republic of Korea        Population I                      .30.0                         30.00
778          1979    Korea Electric Co.    Power                                115.0                        115.00
800          1980    Republic of Korea        Education V                       100.0                         99.50
829          1980    CNB I                    Dev. Finance Co.                    30.0                        29.61
836          1980    Republic of Korea        Railway VII                         94.0                        92.13
851          1980    AFDC                     Agriculture II                      50.0                        48.94
932/a        1980    KLTCB VIII               Div. Finance Co.                    90.0                        90.00
9337a        1980    KDB IV                   Div. Finance Co.                  100.0                        100.00
Total                                                            3,095.02  40.0  106.81   1,184.30
of which has been repaid                                         186.69   -        2.44
Total now outstanding                                            2,908.33  40.0  104.37
Amount sold                        8.83
of which has been repaid         5.19                               2.84   -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                                 2,905.49  40.0  104.37
Total undisbursed                                                1,184.30   -         -      1,184.30
a Effective March 19, 1981.



-29-                      ANNIX II
Pagce 2 of 12 pages
B.  Stateinmnt of IFC Invcestments (as of February 28, 1981)
Fiscal                                                           Amnount ($ million)
Year     Obligor                  Types of Business             Loan  Fquity Total
1968   KDFC                       Development Financing            -     0.7    0.7
1969   llonam Silk Co.             Textiles                       1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper                 Pulp and paper                 4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -         0.7    0.7
1974   KDFC                       Development Financing            -     0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investmcnt
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -         0.3    0.3
1975   Cold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development  5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.            Synthetic Fibers               6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.       Tourism                        2.8    0.7    3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -         0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper Mfg. Co.   Paper                             5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                            15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                       Development Financing          17.8     -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                -     0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                        Development Financing           -     0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                  -      0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.            Capital Market                15.0    0.4   15.4
1978   KDFC                       Development Financing            -      1.1    1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                -     1.7    1.7
1979   KIFC                       Capital Market                   -     0.6    0.6
1979   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                            -      0.2    0.2
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                -     1.5    1.5
1980   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                -      1.8    1.8
1980   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                  -      0.6    0 6
1980   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.                                            -      0.8    0.8
1980   KDFC                        Development Financing           -      2.2    2.2
1981   Taihan Bulk Terminal        Grain Port Terminal            7.0    2.5    9.5
Co., Ltd.
Total gross commitment                                  106.4   27.3  133.7
less cancelations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                    61.6    2.7   64.3
Total commitments now held by IFC                        44.8   24.6   69.4
TOTAL undisbursed                                         6.4    2.5    8.9
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million Loan
of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project, located in the central region of Korea, is being
financed under the first Bank loan for area development in Korea. Con-
struction work is progressing on two of the originally scheduled six major
civil works contracts with the first contract nearly completed.  The project
area has been reduced to 7,100 ha from 12,685 as a result of deleting 5,585
ha of land development which, because of the sharp escalation of construction
costs due to inflation have become uneconomic. The award of contracts for
the next two areas is scheduled in May.  Due to the escalation of costs and
inadequate local project budget allocations to compensate for the increase,
the project is currently about two years behind schedule.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land developmaent on 20,700
ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include an
estuary dam, sea dike, pumping stations, irrigation canals, reclamation of
5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of uplands for irrigation of
paddy, land consolidation of 3,200 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of up-
lands. Construction of the access roads and a portion of the estuary dam
has been completed. The main contract for estuary dam construction, awarded
in December 1977, is on schedule and the dam will be completed in 1981.
Other parts of the project have fallen behind schedule due to a sharp esca-
lation of costs and insufficient budget allocations to meet the increases.
It is now expected that in addition to the estuary dam, eight of the ten
subprojects will be completed by the end of 1984. Tidal reclamation is
scheduled to start in 1983 and would be completed in 1986, about 2-1/2 years
behind schedule; the Bank is discussing with the Government measures to
accelerate this schedule.
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will provide irrigation and drainage improvements
for 10,800 ha including 5,800 ha of land consolidation, and conversion of
1,800 ha of upland and forest to paddy land. Construction was to have been
carried out under seven civil works contracts and three were awarded in late
1q79. Award of the fourth contract is scheduled in MIay 1981. The project is
currently about two years behind schedule due to local budget allocations
which were insufficient to meet the sharply increased cost escalation.
Award of the remaining three constracts depends upon funding availability
and a review of their economic justification.
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 46 minor irrigation, 8,300 river
training and 7,400 water supply subprojects as well as a rural telephone
program. The river training and rural telephones components were completed
on schedule in 1979 and the water supply component will be completed in
1980. Design work on the minor irrigation component is complete. The total
area of the irrigation subprojects has been finalized at 9,192 ha. Contracts
have been awarded for all 36 subprojects but construction progress is slow
due to shortfalls in local budget allocations.
Loan No. 1851    Second Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$50 Million Loan of June 27, 1980; Effective Date:
September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1984:
The project would support investments in Korea-s agroprocessing
subsector. Enterprises engaged in freezing and cold storage, canning,
drying, pickling and other preservations of fruits, vegetables, meat and
fisheries products, oil and extraction, processing of grain based foods, raw
silk spinning, and production of fruit juice based beverages, dairy products,
and animal feeds would be the main subborrowers. The project will benefit
the farmers through widening their market opportunities, provide increased
supplies, better quality and larger variety of processed food throughout the
year to consumers, and create about 5,000 additional jobs. The project
would also contribute to the institutional strengthening of the Agriculture
and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC). Sublending is progressing well
and loan disbursements have commenced.



--32-.
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
Multipurpose
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years
following its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood
damage, generate an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually and
provide 460 MW of peaking capacity for Korea's power system. The principal
features of the project are a 90 m high concrete dam across the South Han
River, a power plant containing four 115 MW generating units, and associated
transmission facilities; a reregulating dam about 20 km downstream of the
main dam; relocation of about 100 km of roads and 10 km of railway,
protective works in the reservoir area including the raising of an existing
embankment of a cement plant and other miscellaneous works; implementation
of a resettlement program for some 9,300 families affected by the project;
and consulting services. The major civil works contract was awarded in
December 1979 and progress to date is good, and detailed planning is
underway for the resettlement program.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1338    Second Korea Development Bank Project; $82.5 Million Loan,
of which $7.5 Million for the Korea Industrial Leasing
Company, of December 23, 1976; Effective Date: March 21,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides $75.0 million to be used by KDB to make sub-
loans to finance direct imports for industrial subprojects; the remainder of
the loan, $7.5 million, was relent by KDB to its wholly-owned subsidiary,
the Korea Industrial Leasing Corporation (KILC) to acquire machinery,
equipment, facilities and other property to be leased to investment
enterprises. Commitment of funds has been completed and final disbursement
will be made shortly.
Loan No. 1466    Heavy Machinery Project; $80.0 Million Loan of June 30,
1977; Effective Date: December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project cost has increased substantially for a number of reasons,
including the devaluation of the US dollar, and domestic inflation. The
market prospects for the project were affected by licensing of other power
plant equipment manufacturers in Korea. In order to deal with this problem



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
and to strengthen the financial viability of the project, the Government has
given the project company exclusive right to manufacture power plant
equipment for the domestic market, has arranged a major infusion of new
equity capital through government institutions and has given the President
of the Korean Power Company the responsibility for strengthening the
management of the company. Details are being worked out between the parties
involved and discussions have been pursued between the Korean authorities
and the Bank to assist in resolving the issues.
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project; $55.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 10, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides $55.0 million to be used by SMIB to help cover
the foreign exchange requirements of inidustrial subprojects. A portion of
the loan - $20.0 million - was earmarked to assist small-scale, labor-
intensive subprojects creating employment at a gross capital cost per job
not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed assets are not greater
than $250,000. Funds have been entirely committed and final dibursement
will be made shortly.
Loan No. 1574    Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Million Loan of
June 21, 1978; Effective Date:  September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the loan was made available to KDB's subsidiary, the Korea
Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects. Progress is good.
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:
February 6, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC over the years 1979 and 1980.  In order
to support relatively labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 mil-
lion was earmarked for financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding $750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at a
fixed investment cost per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to
$10.0 million of the proceeds of the loan was made available to the Korea
Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company affiliated to
KDFC, by way of subloans. Progress is good and only about 8% of funds are
still to be disbursed.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After initial delays in completing final specifications and
bidding documents for engineering, support and research equipment, the
project is progressing. Bids have been received and are being evaluated for
a major proportion of the equipment. The training program is also under
way. Recently some shortage of counterpart funds has affected the project
and proposed institutional changes have given rise to concern; these
matters are under discussion with the Government.
Loan No. 1749    Third Small and Medium Industry Bank Project; $60 Million
Loan of July 23, 1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979,
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange component of domestically
produced capital goods. To ensure that a reasonable proportion of the loan
is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects, an amount of $25 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the loan will be earmarked to finance: (a) enter-
prises with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b) projects generating
employment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $8,500. The
loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the Government's policy of
increasing the regional dispersal of employment opportunities and of deep-
ening the industrial structure, and also to continue SMIB support of projects
which would complement large-scale manufacturing enterprises. Progress is
good.
Loan No. 1829    Citizens National Bank (CNB); $30 Million Loan of May 7,
1980; Effective Date: Ausust 5, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The loan is being used to cover part of the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by the Citizens National Bank
(CNB) over a two year period, and would assist CNB in its efforts to support
the Government's policy in increasing regional dispersal of employment
opportunities and of deepening the industrial structure.  Apart from direct
imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by CNB to finance the
foreign exchange components of domestically produced capital goods. The
project would also enable the Bank to help build up CNB's project appraisal
capabilities. Sublending is progressing well and loan disbursements have
commenced.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1774    Population Project;$30 Million Loan of December 27, 1979;
Effective Date: March 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project will assist the Government to reduce fertility over the
next five years, and simultaneously reduce infant and maternal mortality,



_ 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
particularly in rural areas   It is estimated that about 10 million people
would be provided primary health care services under the project. Progress
is being made on a number of fronts. Training to convert unipurpose into
multipurpose workers is going on, the development of curricula for midwifery
training is advancing, workshops have been conducted and coordinators
appointed. Designs for the civil works are being prepared. Although some
delays in training have occurred, this has been due to budget constraints
rather than to managerial problems   The budget allocations made by the
Government for 1980 and 1981 correspond to only about 10% of the amounts
required. This implies a delay of at least one year in project execution.
The Government has indicated that it plans to compensate for the shortfall in
1982. Project management is coping with this situation well and is trying to
make do with the funds available. Loan disbursements have not yet commenced.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1096    Third Education Project; $22.5 Million Loan of March 31,
1975; Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project includes assistance for extension and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the Ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes (VTIs) under the
Administrator of Labor Affairs (ALA). Project implementation is satisfactory.
Physical facilities and the technical assistance program have been completed.
Training operations have commenced in five VTIs. However, equipment procure-
ment under the MOE component was delayed by almost one year because of a
temporary shortage of counterpart funds. This, in turn, caused a postpone-
ment of the Closing Date by one year. Now all equipment contracts have been
awarded and over 90% completed. Estimated total project costs are now
slightly higher (3%) than the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance to be provided by UNDP
and Germany. After an initial delay implementation is now on schedule. All
civil works contracts have been awarded. Six VTIs are now in operation.
About 80% of equipment has been awarded and about 60% delivered. All experts
are in post and the fellowship program has been completed. Management
performance has also improved.



36 _
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1800    Higher Technical Education; $100.0 Million Loan of
February 21, 1980; Effective Date: April 7, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is the Bank's first subsector loan in education. It
finances public and private institutions in higher technical education and
will be approximately allocated as followed: $60 million for engineering,
$36 million for technicians and $4 million for technical assistance. The
project includes about 10 national programs for staff and curriculum develop-
ment and 55 subprojects for equipment. The objectives of the project are:
(a) to alleviate manpower problems, (b) to improve quality and (c) to reduce
the investment gap between public and private institutions. Initial imple-
mentation of the project is satisfactory with all 10 national programs and
55 subprojects already prepared. Management capability for implementation
has been strengthened with additional staff. Actual performance on teacher
recruitment is about the same as planned.
Loan No. 1758    Second Gwangju Regional Project; $65.0 Million Loan of
September 27, 1979; Effective Date: February 15, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation on the Second Gwangju Regional Project is underway
satisfactorily. The physical works have been divided into 15 subprojects.
Civil works contracts for two subprojects (Mogpo Water Supply and Gwangju
Industrial Estate Access Road) were awarded in December 1979 and
construction works are on schedule. Contract awards for two subprojects
were made in October 1980 and another seven in December. Detailed designs
for the remaining subprojects have also been completed but bid award has
been postponed to 1981 primarily due to budgetary problems. Progress on
implementation of the aquaculture development program has been slow due to
staffing changes in the National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives
(NFFC). Preparation of Terms of Reference for various studies under the
Technical Assistance Program are underway. On the whole, project
implementation is satisfactory, though rapid escalation in construction
costs in Korea is expected to cause a cost overrun of about 37%.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of February 20,
1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four
national highways, including supervision of the work by consultants;
(b) paving and improvement, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national



37 _
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
highways totaling about 600 km, including supervision of the work by
consultants; and (c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of
national and provincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. All
contracts for construction and paving were completed by June 1979. Feasi-
bility studies by consultants were completed in 1980 and a contract for
detailed engineering has been negotiated. Disbursements are nearing
completion. The Saudi Fund for Development is providing a loan of $35
million to assist in financing the project.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The project consists of:  (a) a 700 m extension of container
berths being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m
expansion of the container stacking area provided under that project with
ancilliary works; rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central wharf, and
lighter wharf No. 5; (b) procurement of container cranes, mobile container
handling equipment, and tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant Services and
(d) Technical Assistance and Training. Contracts for the extension of
container berths and for rehabilitation of pier No. 4 and lighter wharf No.
5 were let in 1979, following delay in appointing the consultants for final
engineering. Estimated costs have increased to $161 million ($98 foreign
exchange) compared with the appraisal estimate of $112 ($70 foreign
exchange). KMPA expects to introduce commercial accounting from January 1,
1983.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project would provide KNR with the capacity required to meet
forecast traffic, and reduce operating and maintenance costs. It includes
continued double tracking and electrification of lines, extension of yards
and terminals, continued installation of centralized traffic control, track
and rail renewal, separation of road and rail at crossings, installation of
a permanent way workshop, procurement of diesel locomotives, passenger cars
and freight cars, provision of a new passenger car workshop, installation
of additional telecommunication and power facilities and provision of tech-
nical assistance to KNR. The loan will also finance transport sector
studies. Contracts for about 98% of the equipment to be financed under the
loan have been awarded and most of the equipment is under delivery. Studies
of the feasibility of major investments for 1980 and 1981 have been carried
out and the transport sector studies are under way.



_ 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date: March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement,
including paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
roads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial and gun road maintenance and the
future development of the Gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the Ministry of Construction. A contract for the
study was signed and work started in September 1979. Construction of one
road was started in April 1979, and the remaining roads in September 1979.
Costs have escalated sharply due to inflation, and due to budgetary
constraint, construction work is proceeding about one year behind the
original schedule.
Loan No. 1836    Seventh Railway Project; $94 Million Loan of May 21,
1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 12, 1983
The project focuses on the goals set jointly with the Government
on the transport sector, namely to increase the capacity of the transport
system in the most economically efficient way and to develop and strengthen
the institutions dealing with the transport sector. The main component of
the project aims at: (a) initiating the institutional changes necessary to
gradually transform the Korean National Railroad (KNR) into a public
corporation; (b) providing KNR with the capacity required to meet forecast
traffic; and (c) reducing operating and maintenance costs. The loan will
finance rails, track maintenance equipment, breakdown cranes, passenger
cars, freight cars, workshop equipment, technical assistance and training.
Power Sector
Loan No. 1778    Gojeong Power Project, $115 Million Loan of December 27,
1979; Effective Date: March 21, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project constitutes the next logical step in the development
program of the Korean Power Company (KECO) to meet the load growth up to
1986. The project would provide for the installation of two 500 MW



_ 39
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
coal/oil-fired units and associated auxiliary equipment; coal handling and
storage facilities, fuel oil tanks, ash system and storage area, a fuel
unloading dock for ships up to 100,000 DWT displacement; a pumping station
and a 17 km steel pipe to transport fresh water to the station; and a 160 km
double circuit, 345 KV transmission line between the power station and
Seoul, and related terminal substations and management consulting services.
In September 1979, contracts for the main equipment which is not being
financed by the Bank were signed and call for bids for 12 equipment packages
will be made in mid-April. Power rates have been increased periodically and
KECO has been able to meet its 9% rate of return objective.



-40-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
KOREA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project            22 weeks
(b)  Agency which prepared the project            NACF
(c)  Date preparation completed                   April 19, 1980
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission               June 15, 1980
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness                August 14, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
No special action is considered necessary
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) NACF would contribute US$29.9 million equivalent and the beneficiaries
$34.3 million towards the project (para. 67).
(b) NACF would expand the role of its Technical Unit (TU) to include
evaluating and monitoring subloans for agro-processing, chilled
storage and packaging material subprojects (para. 71).
(c) NACF would design an improved monitoring and evaluation system,
satisfactory to the Bank within one year after effectiveness
(para. 74).
(d) NACF would formulate criteria acceptable to the Bank for Primary
Cooperatives before they particiipate in the project (para. 71).
(e) NACF would strengthen the Technical Unit by appointing an agri-
cultural engineer with qualification and experience acceptable to
the Bank (para. 72).
(f) NACF and AFDC would keep each other fully informed of their
respective lending activities in agro-processing and chilled
storage with a view to avoiding over-investment (para. 73).
(g) All subloans above the free limit of US$500,000, and at least the
first five subloans for agro-processing, chilled storage and
packaging material subprojects, would be submitted for Bank approval
prior to granting the subloans (para. 75).



-41-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(h) The interest rate payable by the NACF to the Government would
be equal to the rate payable by the Government to the Bank. The
interest rate payable by the Participating Cooperatives to the NACF
would be at least 13.0% per annum and the rate payable by subborrowers
would be at least 16.0% per annum. The level of interest rates would
be reviewed by the Government in consultation with the Bank and NACF at
least annually with a view to ensuring that:
(i) the rate payable by the subborrowers cooperatives would cover
NACF's and PC finance and administrative costs, be positive in
real terms over the long-run and equal the rate payable for
local funds for similar subprojects implemented under NACF's
auspices; and
(ii) the rate payable by the participating cooperatives to NACF
would at least cover the weighted average cost of Bank and
NACF's funds plus administrative costs (paras. 76 and 77).
(i) The interest rates for relending from Special Funds established under
the previous two agricultural credit projects would be changed so that
they are identical to the interest rates charged under the proposed
loan (para. 78).
(j) The conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, between the Government and NACF would be a Condition of
Effectiveness (para. 83).






1 BRD 1235 lIt
0 59/'5US&ty $t - . D~~~~~~~~~~~2w'7                                           f -2r                           1 2'9-U^
,    --Q9  - NOT H  KOREA
CHINA
Sea 0/
KOREA
Ye/IQWSea3
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ G                                       i      u4 heo      ANG     YWE ONII 
0  '~~~~~~C,,                                                     .1 ... gb
Sea
.s                                12' ' 
Pac,hc ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~e."
Anyong ~ ~    h  gj                                    cin
h,,.,1f Sm-                                                         '             A                  KORE
Yellow     ~          ~ Se                                                                                                                    3  PDlA-
.   \  '   ' .              i                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ast ort
;..* *  .00                              -      :          0         ,f tE CA
Railways
i4-  Airporis
Parts
-  -  PrviplolI,urUdanies
.Jteluo.                .  .                      -           . -  7trnoteOnot bowndories
*0 j     0     S ***   90*20    40,160
: - -EJ U                                                                                             __.
t25  t2f,'  0 12t'  i   I   MDEES
125?                            126                               IZP2?1?



