Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5001 
Operation Name 
Third Infrastructure Development Policy Loan 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (32%);Power 
(32%);General transportation sector (32%);Telecommunications 
(4%) 
Project ID 
P115102 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
Implementing Agency 
BAPPENAS/COORDINATING MINISTRY FOR ECONOMIC 
AFFAIRS/ MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
BAPPENAS 
Jalan Taman Surapati No 2 
Jakarta 
Indonesia 
Tel: 62-21-336207 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Jl. Dr. Wahidin No. 1 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 
Tel: (62-21) 384-6725 Fax: (62-21) 3500 842 
silaban.rio@gmail.com 
Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs 
Jl. Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
Jakarta Pusat 10710 
Indonesia 
Tel: (21-21_ 351 1462 
 
Date PID Prepared 
July 16, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 23, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
September 24, 2009 
1. Country and Sector Background 
 
Indonesia continues to recover and strengthen from the economic, political and environmental 
shocks of the past decade.  Its economy has accelerated to the fastest growth pace since the crisis 
of the late 1990s, despite unstable global financial markets and a slowing world economy. The 
country has recovered from natural disasters including the 2004 tsunami, earthquakes, and wide-
spread floods. And Indonesia’s political system is maturing into one of the most stable and 
vibrant democracies in the region. 
 
While attention was focused on restoring sound macroeconomic management, infrastructure 
investment fell from over 7% of GDP in 1997 to just over 2% in 2001.  Since then, infrastructure 
investment has risen to over 3% of GDP, but this level of investment has been insufficient to 
Page  2
meet the growing demand from existing infrastructure users, or to address the needs of the large 
parts of the population who do not have access to basic infrastructure services.  The decline in 
investment was particularly dramatic in the energy sector, and is now resulting in widespread 
blackouts. Investment in water and sanitation has long been insufficient to expand access to 
piped water or to begin to develop sewerage systems. Transport investment has held relatively 
steady as a proportion of GDP, but realizing the potential benefits of an expanded expressways 
network and urban mass transport systems is likely to require significant additional resources 
beyond current investment levels. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The Infrastructure Development Policy Loan program, which consists of four proposed annual 
loans during 2007-2010, aims to: 
·
Increase the quantity and efficiency of central Government spending on infrastructure 
through improved public service obligation (subsidy) policy, and expenditure planning 
and budgeting; 
·
Improve sub-national infrastructure services through increased sub-national government 
spending and an improved incentives framework; 
·
Increase private investment in infrastructure through the establishment of a fiscally 
sound, credible and transparent PPP framework; and 
·
Enhance governance for infrastructure through improved land acquisition, environmental 
protection, and procurement and audit processes within the Ministry of Public Works. 
 
Additional benefits of the loan program include enhanced Bank engagement in policy dialogue 
with the government on its infrastructure reform agenda; donor harmonization and parallel 
financing by key donors (Asian Development Bank and the Government of Japan) around a 
common policy framework and dialogue; and a signaling effect of endorsement by donors of the 
governme
nt’s infrastructure policy reforms and macroeconomic management. 
 
The Government’s infrastructure reform program is wide-ranging and now addresses the 
challenges that arose from a decade of under-investment. The IDPL program recognizes the most 
significant elements of the Government’s program. The current operation focuses on the most 
important infrastructure reform achievements of the past year, “prior actions” which are critical 
for the objectives of the program: 
 
·
Increase in budget allocations to infrastructure ministries 
·
Improved planning of electricity subsidies 
·
Reforms to the budgeting process for national roads 
·
Fiscal incentives for sub-national governments to increase household water connections 
·
Reforms of the regulatory framework for infrastructure PPPs. 
·
Development of new institutions to assist in financing infrastructure PPPs. 
·
Improved land acquisition processes 
·
Implementation of the law on solid waste management 
·
Measures to improve the efficiency of procurement and internal audit processes within 
the Ministry of Public Works 
 
Page  3
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The initial rationale for the loan series was the wide-ranging nature and broad progress of the 
Government’s infrastructure reform program, and the Government’s desire to engage with the 
Bank to enhance the quality of this program. As with all DPLs, the series is based on a 
foundation of sound macroeconomic management by the Government, an assessment which is 
shared by the Bank and the IMF. 
 
Since its inception in 2007, the IDPL series has rapidly assumed central importance in the 
dialogue between the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank, and it is achieving strong 
results. The program is grounded in areas of influence of reformist ministries, the Ministry of 
Finance, the Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs, and Bappenas. In this, the third loan of 
the series, this engagement has yielded particularly important benefits with significant reforms in 
the water sector, and advances in the processes and funding for land acquisition. 
 
The IDPL series also represents a partnership with other donors, providing a forum for 
strengthened policy messages from the donors. The ADB and the Government of Japan are 
financing a parallel series of policy loans, in 2006, 2008, and 2010, the Infrastructure Reform 
Sector Development Program (IRSDP). The two series complement each other, with the IDPL 
series ensuring heightened attention to the most critical reforms, and the IRSDP series assisting 
to maintain momentum across the breadth of the Government’s program. There is close 
coordination between the agencies to ensure consistent messages. AusAID, too, is closely 
engaged in developing the policy messages embodied in these loan series, and is providing 
technical assistance to support implementation of some of the IDPL triggers. 
 
4.  Financing 
 
$250 million, single-tranche loan. 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The IDPL program is grounded in the Government’s own infrastructure reform initiatives. The 
implementing agencies of the IDPL program are the Ministry of Finance, the Coordinating 
Ministry for Economic Affairs, and Bappenas (the planning ministry).  The Ministry of Public 
Works is also a key counterpart for many of the reforms being pursued. 
 
The Bank and the Government discuss indicative triggers for the each coming year’s operation, 
achievement of which is required before the next year’s loan.  There is flexibility to adjust these 
triggers having regard to the realities of uneven reform progress. The Bank exercises this 
flexibility taking note of the extent of policy reform, and having regard to the development 
objectives of the four-year program. Regular dialogue occurs to monitor progress towards both 
the indicative triggers and the overall program objectives. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
The benefits of the program are found in the development impact of the operation’s objectives. 
Page  4
Achievement of the program’s objectives is subject to various risks: 
·
(High risk) Corruption poses risks for the realization of the full benefits of increased 
infrastructure investment, and reputational risks for the Bank. The IDPL series includes 
procurement reforms which are part of the Bank’s anti-corruption effort. More generally, 
IDPL triggers support greater transparency and accountability through improved planning 
processes, and greater competition and transparency in the development of PPPs. 
·
(High risk) Bureaucratic capacity is a constraint on the pace of reform. Technical 
assistance is provided to mitigate the risks. 
·
(Low risk) Government commitment may waver, either through coalition politics, or as a 
result of a change of government following the 2009 elections. The mitigation strategy is 
inherent in the nature of DPL series – loans may be postponed or cancelled in the event 
that satisfactory progress towards the indicative triggers is not achieved. 
·
(Moderate risk) The macroeconomic situation may deteriorate, with the most likely 
causes arising from external shocks. Again the mitigation strategy lies in the nature of 
DPL series, which may be postponed or cancelled if insufficient progress occurs towards 
indicative triggers. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Improved infrastructure services are likely to have overall positive poverty and social impacts, as 
a
spur to economic growth and through enhanced provision of services to the poor. Nevertheless, 
there are some potential negative impacts associated with increased infrastructure, including 
increased traffic accidents, increased social dislocation associated with land acquisition, and 
possible increased prices for infrastructure services. The IDPL program includes mitigation 
measures, including engagement with the Government to reform approaches to land acquisition 
and through improved targeting of subsidies towards the poor. 
 
The IDPL program may involve both positive and negative effects on the environment, though it 
should be noted that in most cases the effects are indirect and with up to a decade of delay, with 
policy reforms inducing changed investment plans, inducing construction, and finally operation 
of the new facilities. The IDPL program includes measures designed to improve environmental 
outcomes, including improved solid waste management, increased investment in sanitation, and 
reforms to Indonesia’s system for environmental impact assessment.  On the other hand, 
increased electricity may have negative environmental effects, particularly through air pollution 
including greenhouse gases. Increased roads investment may also contribute to air pollution, and 
will have local environmental consequences associated with roads works. Government measures 
are underway to address the potential negative consequences in at least partial fashion. 
 
8.  Contact Point 
 
Michael Warlters 
Senior Economist 
Level 19, 14 Martin Place 
Sydney, Australia 
 
Page  5
Email: 
mwarlters@worldbank.org
Telephone: +61 2 9235 6564 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
