Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4789 
Operation Name 
Third Infrastructure Development Policy Loan 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (32%);Power 
(32%);General transportation sector (32%);Telecommunications 
(4%) 
Project ID 
P115102 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE/BAPPENAS/COORDINATING 
MINISTRY FOR ECONOMIC AFFAIRS 
Date PID Prepared 
May 12, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
July 23, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 24, 2009 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Following the 1997 Asian financial crisis, Indonesia뭩 Government뭩 first priority was restoring sound 
macroeconomic management. During these years, infrastructure investment fell from over 7% of GDP 
in 1997 to just over 2% in 2001.  Since then, infrastructure investment has risen to over 3% of GDP, but 
this level of investment has been insufficient to meet the growing demand from existing infrastructure 
users, or to address the needs of the large parts of the population who do not have access to basic 
infrastructure services.  The decline in investment was particularly dramatic in the energy sector, and is 
now resulting in widespread blackouts. Investment in water and sanitation has long been insufficient to 
expand access to piped water or to begin to develop sewerage systems. Transport investment has held 
relatively steady as a proportion of GDP, but realizing the potential benefits of an expanded expressways 
network and urban mass transport systems is likely to require significant additional resources beyond 
current investment levels. 
 
The initial rationale for the loan series was the wide-ranging nature and broad progress of the 
Government뭩 infrastructure reform program, and the Government뭩 desire to engage with the Bank to 
enhance the quality of this program. As with all DPLs, the series is based on a foundation of sound 
macroeconomic management by the Government, an assessment which is shared by the Bank and the 
IMF. 
 
Since its inception in 2007, the IDPL series has rapidly assumed central importance in the dialogue 
between the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank, and it is achieving strong results. The 
program is grounded in areas of influence of reformist ministries, the Ministry of Finance, the 
Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs, and Bappenas. In this, the second loan of the series, this 
engagement has yielded particularly important benefits with the approval of a decree that will rapidly 
restructure the debts of water utilities, permitting significant new finance to flow into the sector for the 
first time in a decade. The series is also demonstrating results in terms of building engagement, and 
generating reform, with non-central agencies, such as the National Land Agency. 
 
The IDPL series also represents a partnership with other donors, providing a forum for strengthened 
policy messages from the donors. The ADB and the Government of Japan are financing a parallel series 
Page  2
of policy loans, in 2006, 2008, and 2010, the Infrastructure Reform Sector Development Program 
(IRSDP). The two series complement each other, with the IDPL series ensuring heightened attention to 
the most critical reforms, and the IRSDP series assisting to maintain momentum across the breadth of 
the Government뭩 program. There is close coordination between the agencies to ensure consistent 
messages. AusAID, too, is closely engaged in developing the policy messages embodied in these loan 
series, and is providing technical assistance to support implementation of some of the IDPL triggers. 
 
2. Proposed objective 
 
The Infrastructure Development Policy Loan program, which consists of four proposed annual loans 
during 2007-2010, aims to: 

Increase the quantity and efficiency of central Government spending on infrastructure through 
improved public service obligation (subsidy) policy, and expenditure planning and budgeting; 

Improve sub-national infrastructure services through increased sub-national government 
spending and an improved incentives framework; 

Increase private investment in infrastructure through the establishment of a fiscally sound, 
credible and transparent PPP framework; and 

Enhance governance for infrastructure through improved land acquisition, environmental 
protection, and procurement and audit processes within the Ministry of Public Works. 
 
Additional benefits of the loan program include enhanced Bank engagement in policy dialogue with the 
government on its infrastructure reform agenda; donor harmonization and parallel financing by key 
donors (Asian Development Bank and the Government of Japan) around a common policy framework 
and dialogue; and a signaling effect of endorsement by donors of the government뭩 infrastructure policy 
reforms and macroeconomic management. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The Government뭩 infrastructure reform program is wide-ranging and now addresses the challenges that 
arose from a decade of under-investment. The IDPL program recognizes the most significant elements 
of the Government뭩 program. The current operation focuses on the most important infrastructure reform 
achievements of the current year: 
 
(a) Increase in budget allocations to infrastructure ministries 
(b) Improved planning of electricity subsidies 
(c) Reforms to the budgeting process for national roads 
(d) Fiscal incentives for sub-national governments to increase household water connections 
(e) Reforms of the regulatory framework for infrastructure PPPs. 
(f)  Development of new institutions to assist in financing infrastructure PPPs. 
(g) Improved land acquisition processes 
(h) Implementation of the law on solid waste management 
(i)  Measures to improve the efficiency of procurement and internal audit processes within the 
Ministry of Public Works 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The IDPL program may involve both positive and negative effects on the environment, though in most 
cases the effects are indirect and with up to a decade of delay, with policy reforms inducing changed 
investment plans, inducing construction, and finally operation of the new facilities. The IDPL program 
Page  3
includes measures designed to improve environmental outcomes, including improved solid waste 
management, increased investment in sanitation, and reforms to Indonesia뭩 system for environmental 
impact assessment.  On the other hand, increased electricity may have negative environmental effects, 
particularly through air pollution including greenhouse gases. Increased roads investment may also 
contribute to air pollution, and will have local environmental consequences associated with roads works. 
Government measures are underway to address the potential negative consequences in at least partial 
fashion. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
250 
 Total 
250 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Michael Ian Warlters 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5740+564 / 61-2-9223-7773 
Email: mwarlters@worldbank.org 
Location: Sydney, Australia (IBRD)
 
