Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. P7462
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$330 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
TO SUPPORT THE PROVINCE
OF SANTA FE
June 21, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Peso
US$1 = ARG$1
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
EPESF          Empresa Provincial de Electricidad (Provincial Electricity Company)
IAPOS         Instituto Aut6nomo de Obra Social (Provincial Workers Health
Insurance Fund)
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IFD            Instituto de Fomento Docente (Teacher Training Institute)
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
IMF            International Monetary Fund
LPR            Letter of Provincial Reform
NBI            Necesidades Bdsicas Insatisfechas (Unsatisfied Basic Needs)
OECD           Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
ONE            Operativas Nacionales de Evaluacion de Calidad (National Student
Tests)
PPASS          Programa Provincial de Ayuda Solidaria Santa Fe (Provincial Social
Assistance Program)
PDP            Provincial Development Project
PERMER         Renewable Energy Project
PRESSAL        Provincial Health Sector Reform Project
PROSAP         Provincial Agricultural Development Project
PRL            Provincial Reform Loan
PRODYMES    Secondary Education Decentralization Project
PROMIN         National Program for Maternal and Child Nutrition and Health
SARH          Sistema de Administracion de Recursos Humanos (Human Resource
Management System)
SEPC           Secretaria de Estado de Promoci6n Comunitaria (Secretary for
Community Development)
SIGAPE        Sistema de Gesti6n y Adminstraci6n Escolar (School Management and
Administration System)
SINTyS        Sistema de Identificacion Nacional Tributario y Social (National
Taxpayer and Social Assistance Registry)
SMAyDS        Secretaria de Medio Ambiente y Desarrollo Sostenible (Provincial
Secretary for the Environment)
Vice President: Mr. David de Ferranti
Country Director: Ms. Myrna Alexander
SMU Director: Mr. Ernesto May
Task Manager: Mr. Mark Hagerstrom



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
SANTA FE PROVINCIAL REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Number
I.   THE SETTING
Economic and Social Performance                                      1
Responding to the Challenge                                          5
The Provincial Context                                              10
Individual Provincial Reform Programs                               18
II.  THE REFORMING PROVINCE OF SANTA FE
The Challenge                                                      23
The Reform Program of Santa Fe                                     23
Strengthening Public Finance                                  25
Modemizing Public Administration                              30
Social Protection                                             32
Health Reform                                                 34
Education Reform                                              36
Private Sector Development                                    39
III.  THE PROPOSED LOAN
Loan Objective and Rationale                                       41
Lessons Learned from Previous Operations                           43
Institutional Capacity and Technical Assistance                    44
Coordination with Multilateral Institutions                        45
Loan Description                                                   46
Environmental Concerns                                             47
Gender Analysis                                                    48
Social Consultation                                                49
Social Impact Analysis                                             50
Benefits and Risks                                                  51
IV.  RECOMMENDATIONS                                                     53
This Report is based on the findings of a team composed of Mark Hagerstrom (team leader),
David Rosenblatt, Gillette Hall, Juan Pablo Uribe, Suhas Parandekar, Maria Elena Castro, Sandra
Cesilini, Truman Packard, Hermann A. Von Gersdorff, Ariel Fiszbein, Susana Sanchez, Andres
Mac Gaul, Susana Cirigliano, Rail Benitez, Philippe Durand, Gerard Liautaud, Mariela Alvarez,
Regina Madigan (Consultant) Olympia Icochea (Consultant), Luis Perez (Consultant), Federico
Mejer (Consultant), Ercilia Nofal (Consultant Team Leader).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
A. Letter of Provincial Reform (IBC)
B. Policy Matrix
C. Documents in the Project File
D. Statements of Loans and Credits
E. Country at a Glance
F. Private Sector Development
G. Social Impact Assessment and Social Development Strategy
H. Institutional Capacity
I. Electricity Distibution
J. Social Consultation
K. The Provinces
L. Environmental Aspects
Map - IBRD 29348
4



ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
SANTA FE PROVINCIAL REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:               The Argentine Republic
Implementing Agencies:   The Undersecretary for Provincial Relations of the National
Ministry of Economy and the Province of Santa Fe,
including the Provincial Coordinating Unit and Provincial
ministries and agencies.
Beneficiary:            Provincial Government of Santa Fe
Poverty:                Santa Fe's per capita income, at $6,400, is about 85
percent of the national average and reflects high levels of
unemployment compounded by gaps in the delivery of
health, education, and social protection services.  The
reform program is designed to support poverty alleviation
and equity improvements over the long term and to
strengthen the social safety net during the current economic
downturn. Specific actions for the short term to strengthen
the social safety net include: protecting from budget cuts a
new income support program for over 16,000 poor families,
most with female heads of households, while promoting
efforts to enhance its effectiveness; ensuring that poor
pregnant women receive pre-natal care; and improving
primary care for children of poor families.  Poverty
alleviation and equity improvements over the medium to
long term would include actions to support human resource
development, including providing basic health coverage to
non-insured poor and supporting public spending towards
schools in poorer neighborhoods, and measures to enhance
sustainable economic growth and competitiveness,
including a fiscal program consistent with national efforts
to strengthen public finances and reduce country risk,
public investment to alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks,
power tariff reductions for small and medium-sized firms,
and lower labor costs by eliminating local payroll taxes.
Amount:                 US$330 million
Terms:                  A single currency loan in US dollars, repaid in 15 years,
including five years of grace at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
5



Commitment Fee:          0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:         Identical to those contracted by the Argentine Republic
with the Bank
Schedule of Disbursements: (in US$ Million)
Disbursement        Cumulative
First Tranche     I quarter FY2002          153.3              153.3
Second Tranche   4th quarter FY2002         50.0               203.3
Third Tranche     3ra quarter FY2003        126.7              330.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Loan Identification No.:  P069913
6



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED PROVINCIAL REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$330 MILLION TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC TO
SUPPORT THE PROVINCE OF SANTA FE
1.   I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on the
proposed loan to the Argentine Republic for US$330 million to support fiscal and
structural reform of the Province of Santa Fe. The loan would be a variable rate LIBOR-
based dollar loan, with a grace period of 5 years, a final maturity of 15 years and level
repayment of principal. The Argentine Republic would onlend the local currency
equivalent of the loan to the Province on the same terms (an arrangement made possible
by the 1:1 peso to US dollar exchange rate fixed by Argentine law).
I. THE SETTING
Economic and Social Performance
Background
2.   Since the launch of the Convertibility Plan in 1991, the economy has been
transformed through a sweeping set of structural reforms that altered the monetary system
(establishing a currency board arrangement with the Argentine peso pegged one-to-one to
the US dollar), liberalized trade, and redefined the role of the state. The latter was
achieved through privatization, decentralization to the provinces, and reform of the social
security system. All of this was intended to reverse the long-term trends of slow growth,
low labor productivity, state domination, low domestic savings, weak investment, high
economic volatility, and chronic inflation which culminated in 1989 with hyperinflation
and the incidence of poverty reaching over 40 percent.
3.   The economic results of the Government's program  during the 1990s were
dramatic. Argentina had average economic growth of 4.8 percent over 1991-1999,
despite the Tequila crisis in 1995 and the external shocks and ensuing recession since
1998. In contrast to previous bouts of hyperinflation, during the past decade Argentina
has one of the world's lowest rates of inflation, with price deflation in the past two years.
The Federal Government's fiscal deficit receded from an average of about 6 to 8 percent
of GDP for most of the 1980s to 1.4 percent in 1998 and 2.6 percent in 1999. Total
foreign debt--about $147 billion-- is moderate as a share of GDP (equivalent to 52
percent) but large when compared to the country's export base. As a result, external debt
represents more than four times the annual base of exports of goods and services, and
debt service has represented 60 to 90 percent of total exports in recent years.
4.   Argentina's external indebtedness and its dependence on external capital to finance
both the public sector's deficits and private investments reflect the currency regime,
under which both the dollar and the peso has equal legal status, and the relatively
underdeveloped state of the capital markets, creating little capacity for domestic
financing. This leaves the economy vulnerable to external shocks and perceptions of the
I



international capital markets. This happened during 1994-95 with the Tequila crisis, and
again with the Asia crisis of 1997, the Russia crisis of 1998 followed by the Brazil
devaluation in 1999. All of these shocks have had negative impacts on the economy's
ability to create employment and reduce poverty, particularly as much of the adjustment
depends on productivity improvements. Poverty has risen after falling in the early 1990s
and unemployment has remained stubbornly high. Moreover, the pace and intensity of
economic reforms waned in the latter part of the 1990s, and the end of the decade saw a
noticeable deterioration of the fiscal accounts.
Recent Economic Performance
5.   Economic performance in 1999, with a decline of 3.4 percent of GDP, was the
worst since the hyper-inflationary period of 1989. In the first half of 2000, GDP did
grow, although only by 0.3 percent (year-on-year) with industrial production by 2 percent
(year-on-year). The strongest signals came from exports which grew by almost 14
percent, year-on-year, in the first six months of 2000. These incipient signs of growth
were short-lived and economic recovery remained painfully slow through the rest of
2000, as the economy adjusted to the impact of the 1999 Brazil devaluation. At the same
time, consumers and investors were wary. A round of tax increases in early 2000
dampened consumer demand, as did salary cuts for senior public employees in May
2000. On the other hand, efforts to stimulate investment via public infrastructure
investments did not come to fruition. Investment in 2000 dropped to 16 percent of GDP.
6.   The year 2000 ended with a decline of 0.5 percent of GDP even though exports in
aggregate, at 13 percent, and manufactures in particular at 18 percent, continued to surge.
The current account balance improved significantly from 4.4 percent of GDP in 1999 to
3.3 percent in 2000, with strong export and slack import demand offsetting the rise in
foreign interest payments. Unemployment registered 14.7 percent in October 2000 and
poverty levels may have worsened. The aggregate provincial deficit was 1.2 percent of
GDP (down from 1.6% in 1999) which together with the Federal deficit of 2.4 percent of
GDP (roughly the same in 1999), represented a modest improvement over 1999 in spite
of the ongoing economic slowdown.
7.   The difficulties associated with the lack of growth and inability to reduce the fiscal
deficit were exacerbated by a political crisis in October 2000 that resulted in a major
Cabinet shake-up and the resignation of the Vice President. This provoked a crisis of
confidence that led to a sharp rise in country risk. Over the October-November 2000
period, external debt markets were closed for Argentine public borrowing, and domestic
interest rates rose sharply, although not comparable to the worst of the Tequila crisis.
The markets were calmed by the swift action by the Government to mobilize
international financing, called the blindaje, under the IMF's leadership (see para. 28).
With these new reforms and the support package, financial variables improved
substantially at the start of 2001. Spreads and interest rates fell by about 3 percentage
points from the peaks over of 10 percentage points reached in October. The Government
returned to the international bond market with a $4.2 billion debt swap to smooth out the
amortization schedule over the 2001-2004 period. New placements have been launched
successfully in early 2001.
2



8.   But these developments too were short lived and the initial positive reactions by
the international capital markets to the blindaje could not be sustained when early results
for January and February 2001 showed that fiscal deficit was larger than the indicative
targets agreed with the Fund and the level of internal policy debate continued to cast
doubt about the direction of economic policy. Specific measures such as the reform of
the public pension system have been resisted in congress and remain with out passage,
even though they would greatly enhance equity and save some $600 million per year over
the medium term. The administration's effort to increase competition in the quasi-public
health insurance system have been resisted by the unions and the executive orders to put
the new system in place have been challenged in the courts. Thus, many of the
previously announced measures, well received initially, were put on hold.
9.  In March 2001, the economy was hit by the resignations of two Ministers of
Economy in succession. After the first Minister's resignation, the new economic team
proposed a program to cut $2 billion from the federal budget to meet the fiscal targets
agreed with the Fund. To increase credibility, the program focussed the expenditure side.
While the program was well grounded with economic justification for reducing
inefficiencies in federal spending, it failed to received adequate political backing
(including a massive resignation of other cabinet members) largely due to targeting of
cuts in inefficient education spending for salary bonuses paid to teachers at the provincial
level and for subsidies to the national public universities. The new minister was replaced
only after fifteen days with yet another team headed by Minister Cavallo.
10. These events occurred as the Federal Government had hoped to access the markets
to fill its financing plan for the second quarter of 2001, in part to meet planned financing
needs not covered by the blindaje and in part to compensate for the higher than
anticipated deficit in the first quarter. With the markets effectively closed during March
and April 2001-with country risk spreads remaining over 1000 basis points-the
Government had little recourse but to tap the domestic market with a $3.5 billion
placement. Included in this placement was the issue of a one-year bond for $2 billion
that banks can compute towards their liquidity requirements, in addition to effectively
lowering these requirements from 20 to 18 percent of deposits. This financing along with
the balance of the international package should be sufficient to avoid recourse to the
international bond market for the remainder of 2001. Country risk slowly receded to
under 1,000 basis points.
11. Throughout most of 2000, confidence in the banking system remained strong, as
the monetary authorities had implemented prudent banking policies, strengthening the
system since the Tequila crisis. Overall, the banking system continues to be highly
dollarized with dollar accounts at 63 percent of total deposits far outweighing peso
accounts and the majority of domestic credit is nominated in dollars. The system has
maintained its deposit base in both pesos and dollars, exhibiting growth of 7 percent
growth in the first half of 2000. However, deposits declined by about 5 percent in the
face of the political uncertainty in October and November 2000, but then recovered only
to decline once again, by about 6 percent or $5.5 billion, as the economy moved closer to
3



a crisis in March 2001 and its lingering uncertainties in April and May.1 The decline was
much sharper for peso deposits as compared to dollar deposits. International reserves
have fallen, by about $7 billion between end 2000 and May 2001, but remain strong,
totaling $25.4 billion, and fully back the money supply, a requirement to maintain
convertibility and the integrity of the currency board system.
12.  The recession and the emerging fiscal crisis have had an impact on interest rates
and on credit demand. During the early part of 2000, interest rates were relatively stable,
albeit high in real terms, and the peso-dollar spread low. However, as the markets began
to increase country risks, inter-bank rates spiked in October 2000 and again in March
2001, this time reaching over 80 percent for overnight money. With low investment and
consumer confidence, there has been no growth in credit to the private sector and the
banks remain highly liquid reflecting a lack of demand for credit at the prevailing high
interest rates. Credit to the private sector has been stagnate during 2000, at about $62
billion, or roughly 22 percent of GDP, with prime rates jumping from 8 percent to 24
percent during March 2001. The lack of credit at reasonable rates is a very strong
limitation on new investment and a burden on firms attempting to adjust to the change in
markets as a result of the devaluation of the Brazilian real. The Government's switch
from external to domestic sources of financing further complicates this panorama. In
addition, the continuing stagnation of the economy led to an inevitable deterioration in
the quality of bank portfolios, albeit this deterioration remains modest, and private banks
are generally heavily provisioned for any loses.
Social Concerns
13. While many social indicators have improved in the past ten years--for example,
infant mortality has dropped from 25 deaths per 1,000 births in 1991 to about 18 deaths
in 2000--poverty levels have stubbornly stayed high after having fallen in the immediate
recovery period of the early 1990s. The Bank's estimates for 1998 put poverty at about
29 percent of the urban population, down from the peak of 41 percent in 1990, but up
2
from the pre-Tequila crisis level of 22 percent in 1994. Poverty is likely much higher in
the rural areas and not likely to have improved in the past two years. This situation is
compounded by rising income inequality, underemployment and unemployment,
especially for the unskilled, indicating that the benefits of growth have not been widely
shared. Income for the unskilled has been stagnate for the past 10 years as productivity
increases benefited workers with higher human capital, and much of the burden of
reacting to external shocks has come through reductions in unit labor costs. Moreover, as
a coping strategy, many firms and employees are opting out of the formal social security
system, with about 45 percent of the labor force currently not contributing to pension or
health insurance programs adding to social vulnerability.
14. The macro-economic uncertainties experienced during the past year, aggravated by
the lack of confidence by the international capital markets since the latter half of 2000,
1 In contrast, during the Tequila crisis, 18 percent of deposits were withdrawn from the system
and a significant number of banks were forced to close, restructure and/or merge.
2 See the Bank's most recent Poverty Assessment for Argentina, Report No. 19992-AR; March
23, 2000.
4



have only add to the country's mounting social concerns. The poor have suffered the
most during the current economic downturn and the greatest gain in terms of poverty
reduction will likely be attained by rapidly restoring sustainable, investment-led growth.
As shown in the FYOO Poverty Assessment, Argentina needs sustained growth, combined
with no further deterioration in income inequality, to reduce poverty levels materially
over the next ten years: for example, per capita income growth of 1.8 percent per year for
the next ten years (or annual growth of about 3.3 percent of GDP) could reduce poverty
to the 21-24 percent levels. Similarly, reviving employment creation and reducing
unemployment helps: full employment could reduce poverty by some 6-8 percentage
points.
15. While these analyses show that a significant drop in poverty is attainable with
sustained growth and employment creation over the long term, reduction of poverty in
Argentina is also very dependent on improving human capital and improving educational
levels may be the single most powerful way to reduce poverty levels. This is because
incomes for the unskilled have stagnated during the 1990s, while those with superior
levels of education continue to do relatively better, even in tougher economic times, as
reflected in overall increases in income inequality and increases in the wages paid to
those with more education. Thus, human capital formation has to remain at the center of
social policies. With social services are shared between the federal and provincial
administrations, the provinces are key players in the delivery of primary and secondary
education, public hospitals and clinics, housing, and a variety of social protection
programs and social expenditures. These services comprise about 53 percent of total
provincial spending.
Responding to the Challenge
The Reform Agenda
16. Since it took over in December 1999, the Administration of President de La Rua
has struggled to restore growth and reduce poverty. The challenge rests on overcoming
three main drags in the economy: (i) the latest competitiveness shocks caused by the
January 1999 devaluation of Brazil, and the appreciation of the US dollar; (ii) fiscal
vulnerability given fiscal slippage in 1999 and high roll-over of debt which has been
mostly financed externally because of low domestic savings and low levels of
intermediation; and (iii) shaken consumer and investor confidence because of the
prolonged recession and political uncertainties.
17. At the outset, the new Administration put forward a determined program of
economic and social reforms designed to restore growth and promote greater social
equity while being fiscally responsible and retaining the Convertibility Plan. As agreed
with the IMF, the 2000 budget attempted to reduce modestly the deficit and included a
round of tax decreases to stimulate investment compensated by increases of taxes on
income and consumption, and a new fiscal agreement with the provinces. This was
followed by adoption of new labor laws to decentralize management-union labor
negotiations and to eliminate outdated labor contracts. Agreements were reached with
the poorest and most highly indebted provinces to restructure their debt in turn for greater
fiscal discipline. In keeping with their electoral campaign, the Government began to
5



renegotiate private concession agreements, particularly road, rail, and water concessions,
to reduce costs and/or increase service levels.
18. In late 2000, in response to the deteriorating economic and political situation
described earlier, the Government initiated a new set of economic reforms with measures
to strengthen its fiscal position, including that of provincial governments; promote
financial access, particularly for small and medium size firms (responsible for 70 percent
of employment), deepen public sector reform to enhance governance, accelerate reform
of health care financing, alter the pension system making it more equitable, and
strengthen the social safety net. Importantly, the Federal Government secured the
agreement of the provinces to advance on reforms at that level, including steps on
revising the existing system of federal-provincial revenue sharing, co-participacion. This
new Federal-Provincial Agreement included a number of commitments on improved
fiscal management by the provinces, in line with federal policies and programs, and a
freeze primary expenditures in those provinces with fiscal deficits until 2005. In
addition, the Government negotiated an international package, the blindaje, totaling
approximately $39.7 billion, aimed at easing the financial stress while the measures to
restore growth took hold. This joint effort was designed to provide Argentina with
support to address external financing needs for 2001 and to restore market confidence.
Renewing the Effort
19. Taking over the economic portfolio in mid-March, 2001, Minister Cavallo, the
architect of the Convertibility Plan, launched a series of measures based on two
fundamental pillars: (i) reinforcement of the internal consensus within the governing
coalition and expansion of the political basis for reform; and (ii) design and
implementation of a strategy to address simultaneously the fiscal deficit, the
sustainability of public sector financing and the economic growth. The new Minister
secured in short order legislative endorsement of the new Law of Competitiveness and
the Law on Delegation of Powers. The latter provided the executive branch with powers
to modify the Law of Defense of Competition, improve regulation of the capital markets,
eliminate exemptions to income and profit taxes, generalize the VAT, and eliminate the
minimum presumed income tax on businesses, the tax on interest and employer labor
charges for those activities covered by the new competitiveness plans. In practice, these
competitiveness plans are intended to rationalize and reduce gradually the tax burden
with the goal of eventually converging the tax system to a core of the VAT and income
tax, thus eliminating differential tax treatment among sectors and provinces within a two
year period. Accompanying these measures was an increase in import tariffs to 35
percent on goods outside the MERCOSUR area, a reduction of duty on capital goods to
zero, and a halving of VAT rates for selected sectors. Increased tariff dispersion is
expected to be reversed within a two year period.
20. Under the Law of Competitiveness, the new Tax on Financial Transactions
provides a rapid injection of revenue and sets the stage for Argentina to meet its fiscal
target which allows for a deficit of $6.5 billion in 2001. The new tax is expected to
generate revenues of about $2.7 billion for the remainder of 2001. As all transactions
over $1,000 now must be processed through the banking system, this tax and the banking
system have become important pieces for a medium term program to control tax evasion.
6



Along with increasing revenues via the new tax and elimination of exemptions on VAT,
the new team also has enacted expenditure cuts in the order of $860 million. Together,
these measures are expected to contribute in meeting the year end fiscal targets.
21. The Government has also indicated its intention to continue with the Convertibility
Plan but has also announced that it would alter the currency mix to include the EURO in
equal amount to the US dollar. Legislation authorizing this shift to take place when the
US dollar and the EURO reach parity is presently being considered by Congress. The
rationale for this is to reduce the fluctuations in the real value of the peso and its
vulnerability to international monetary shocks and to reflect better the destination of
Argentina's exports-currently about 17 percent to the European community and 15
percent for NAFTA countries. The new system would retain the core features of the
Convertibility Plan, namely, full backing of the monetary base with reserves and strict
limits on monetary policy.
22. In June, the Government successfully concluded a debt exchange with the private
sector that delayed debt service on approximately $30 billion worth of public debt. With
this innovation, the debt service burden will be reduced over the next five years by $16
billion, with much of the reduced financing needs accruing over the next 18 months. The
financial relief allows the Government to regain its focus on economic reforms. In mid-
June, new measures were announced, to complete the "Competitiveness Plan." These
measures include: tax relief to middle-income families, as a stimulus to consumption; a
new export subsidy (import tax) to improve competitiveness; and measures to improve
tax collection.
23. The intent of these policies is to enhance competitiveness. The Government has
clearly targeted the elimination of distortionary taxes and the excessive tax burden on
those who pay taxes, thus, working towards a more efficient and equitable tax system. In
addition, past studies also indicate that there remains considerable potential, particularly
in the area of transport and logistics to reduce production costs. A recent measure has to
be reduce and even out toll charges for road traffic. There is also much to do to lower the
transaction costs imposed on business by the state which will be addressed through the
modernization of the state program. On the fiscal side, structural changes are being
pursued by reducing fraud and better management of the social security system. There
are also reforms to be put in place to improve public procurement, reduce costs, and
streamline bureaucracy.
24. Turning to social policies, first and foremost on the agenda is restoring economic
growth which should go a long way in reducing poverty over the medium term. But this
strategy needs to be coupled with policies for effective social protection for the poor.
First, there is the issue of income even for the working poor, especially those with
dependent children (with some 45 percent of all children in Argentina in poor families) as
well as income maintenance for those less able to participate in the work force-such as
single mothers--or the aged who do not receive pensions. As highlighted in the Poverty
Assessment and recent ESW, these groups are the most vulnerable to economic shocks.
Thus, one of the main policy reforms will be to revamp social assistance programs.
Second, on social protection, an additional dimension is risk management by those least
able to insure against the risk of future income loss and health and/or unanticipated
7



expenditures. The lack of insurance coverage has been exacerbated by the fact that the
share of workers in the informal sector has increased substantially since the late 1980s,
now accounting for some 45 percent of the labor force. This leaves workers without
health insurance, pension coverage, severance benefits or unemployment insurance and
adds considerably to the burden faced by public services to provide these services. The
present situation creates a serious inter-generational problem. Thus, the second main
thrust will be on revamping basic social security systems.
25.  The appropriate response to these concerns has to be reconciled with the need to
close the fiscal gap, a prerequisite for restoring growth. Thus, the way ahead for
Argentina requires judicious management on the fiscal side, including reducing tax
evasion, so as not to exacerbate the pro-cyclical nature of social spending.  As
highlighted in the FY 00 Poverty Assessment and the Government's 1999 review of
Public Social Expenditures, there exist a wide array of social programs at both the federal
and provincial levels. At the federal level, the Federal Government budgeted some $1.2
billion in targeted social program in 2000 and has been able to maintain service levels
albeit at low levels of coverage. Programs include efforts to assist vulnerable groups
with programs such as the public works programn, TRABAJAR, school scholarships for
poor children, food supplements, community development, and job training for the
unemployed. Next steps are to consolidate these programs and to ensure better coverage
with a universal system for identifying eligible beneficiaries.
Prospects
26. While the economy is currently passing through a critical phase of reengineering
economic management, a credible economic program founded on the measures now
being introduced by Minister Cavallo could return Argentina to economic growth by the
second semester of 2001. Under such a scenario, renewed access to foreign capital would
critically assist in this process, lowering domestic interest rates. External private capital
flows, which are critical for growth in this country with a low domestic savings rate, are
expected to recover slowly, reflecting the still fragile confidence of the international
financial market. Inflation would continue to remain low. An accelerating recovery
during the course of the year could result in real GDP growth in the range of 1 percent,
close to the anticipated rate under the Fund program for 2001. The Government, itself, is
more optimistic and aims at growth closer to 2.5 percent, based on a strong reactivation
of consumer demand.
27. Looking beyond 2001, we anticipate growth of about 3 percent for 2002 and about
4 percent growth per annum over the medium term. These rates are below Argentina's
average for the 1990s-at 4.8 percent per annum-- and reflect the assessment that a quick
rebound is not likely in part because concerns about Argentina's solvency will persist
until there is demonstrated fiscal credibility. In such a medium term scenario, including a
primary expenditure freeze, according to Bank estimates Argentina obtains fiscal and
external sustainability. Furthermore, with estimated employment and poverty reduction
elasticities, at 4 percent economic growth unemployment could be declining at an annual
8



rate of 0.5 percent3, and poverty by 1.5 percent annually4.  Further declines in
unemployment could be obtained from a reduction in labor costs (with likely reductions
in labor taxation). Without more rapid growth, poverty levels and job creation are not
expected to rebound significantly over the short term, and the unemployment rate may
remain at relatively high levels.
International Support
28. The international community, led by the IMF, helped to mobilize support Argentina
as conditions deteriorated in late 2000. The Fund's support was reflected in the
agreement with the IMF approved in January 2001 and subsequently modified in May
2001. Expanding the then on-going, three year $7.4 billion Stand-By Arrangement, the
Fund program involves $13.7 billion (SDR 10.6 billion), with one-fifth of this amount
provided by the IMF's Supplemental Reserve Facility (SRF). From December 2000 to
March 2001, the Fund disbursed $5.0 billion. The next disbursement of $1.3 billion in
expected in May 2001. Commitments by the private sector comprise about half of the
total package, and were designed to rollover debts maturing in 2001 and 2002, with $10
billion committed by private banks (which includes $5 billion of Treasury Bills) and $3
billion by private pension funds. In addition, the package included swap operations for
$7 billion, in which short term maturing bonds were exchanged for long maturing bonds.
Finally, the package also includes a commitment of $1 billion from the Government of
Spain, and World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) pledges of
about $2.5 billion each, largely comprising already programmed support.
29. The focus of the Bank's efforts will be structural reform measures under a proposed
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan (PSAL) which will likely address several
outstanding question of social equity, vulnerability, and consolidation of economic
reforms. Among the areas on which the Bank is working are further reform in the social
security system that reduces the system's deficit and promotes equity among
beneficiaries, deregulation to promote competition among health insurance companies as
well increase the equity of the system for low income families, consolidation and
rationalization of social programs to reduce administrative costs and to target assistance
better, federal state restructuring with the goal of reducing public sector size and thus
improving its efficiency. The Bank would also likely provide complementary technical
assistance under the proposed Social Protection V Project. In parallel, the IDB will be
supporting additional reforms in the areas of public pensions, banking and capital
markets and competitiveness of the economy which are also key ingredients to
Argentina's sustained recovery.
30. Greater efficiency in economic management to enhance fiscal performance and
reduce economic volatility-at both the federal and provincial levels-are essential
features of the proposed programmatic loan, PSAL. This will include actions regarding
administration of the federal taxes that finance much of social expenditures at all levels of
3 Employment elasticity to growth estimates range between 0.3 to 0.5%. Employment elasticity
to labor costs is estimated at 4.6% to -1.0%.
4Assuming no deterioration in income inequality, the economy requires 1.4% per capita income
growth to obtain a 1% decline in the poverty rate.
9



government and form a key part of the state modernization program, to be supported by
the proposed PSAL, with technical assistance provided under a proposed State
Modernization Project (which would propose to provide financing through a
restructuring of the ongoing Year 2000 Technical Assistance Project). At the provincial
level, efforts will continue under the series of Provincial Reform Loans, including the
proposed Santa Fe Provincial Reform Loan, to instill fiscal discipline while improving
the qualify, equity and efficiency of key social services by sub-national governments.
The latest Federal-provincial agreement also established guidelines for transparency of
provincial accounts, budgeting and expenditure planning, and the basis for improved
federal-provincial coordination in tax administration. This agreement provides the basis
for launching a renewed effort, with Bank and IDB support, targeting debt regulations,
provincial pension systems, and reforms in public administration under the proposed SAL
and Provincial Development III Project.
The Provincial Context
31. Provincial governments have long played an important role in overall fiscal
performance and macroeconomic stability.  Argentina's public sector is highly
decentralized, with provinces and municipalities accounting for about half of total public
spending. In particular, they have increasingly become the key public sector level for
providing public services in health, education and infrastructure, with responsibility for
over 90 percent of public spending in health and basic education (Table 1). Thus,
provincial reform becomes a central element in the efforts of Argentina to reduce its
macroeconomic vulnerability through improved fiscal performance and to increase
competitiveness and enhance equity through human resource development.
32. During the 1980s, high inflation rates, lack of budgetary discipline, easy access to
borrowing and reliance on the Federal Government for transfers and bailouts all
contributed to persistent fiscal deficits. The situation improved in 1992, due to the
reforms that the Federal Government had initiated under the Convertibility Plan, and a
major national tax effort. However, this deteriorated again soon after due to excessive
spending by the provinces, given their inability to manage the rapid increase in the funds
transferred from the center. The financial crisis of 1995 aggravated the fiscal situation of
the provinces once again when the pool of total public revenues fell dramatically.
Provincial revenues dropped 5 percent in real termns, provincial expenditures failed to
adjust, and the provincial deficit reached a record high of $3.5 billion or 1.4 percent of
GDP, about half of the consolidated public sector deficit at that time (Table 2). In 1995-
96, out of 24 provinces, only four had balanced fiscal accounts. Most of the others faced
important liquidity shortages, increased borrowing, and accumulated arrears. Some
provinces resorted to printing their own money.
10



Table 1: Argentina: Allocation of Responsibilities by Government Levels
Exclusively       Central and Provincial    Provincial and         Municipal
Central          Governments                Municipal Govetnrnents  Governments
Government       (C=Mostly Central,         (P=Mostly Provincial,
P-Mostly Provincial)      M=Mostly Municipal)
Spending
Defense           Social Security, C        Primary Education, P    Markets, cemeteries
Foreign Affaires   Social Assistance, C     Secondary Education, P   Solid Waste
Trade regulation    Higher Education, C     Health Care, P          Local streets, drainage
Mail and telex   Preventive Health, C       Social Assistance
Inter-provincial    Health Care, P          Water and Sewerage, P
transport         Economic development      Regional and local roads
Infrastructure (e.g. Environmental Protection  Land Use, M
port concessions,  Justice and Security, P  Fire Control, M
toll roads,      Housing
railway)         Passenger and cargo
terminals
Regional Infrastructure
Electricity and gas energy, P
_____ _____ ____ Regulation  of public  utilities   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Revenue
Value Added      Revenue-sharing of value   Turnover, Property,     Services charges for
Income           added, fuel, and other taxes   Stamnp and Automobile   street cleaning, solid
Fuel             collected by the Central   taxes collected mostly    waste disposal, and
Trade tariffs    Government.                by provincial           cemeteries.
Personal Goods                              governments, with       Betterment fees
Consumer Goods                              revenue-sharing
Social Security                             arrangements for
contributions                               municipalities.
33. Recognizing the importance of provincial finances to macro-stability in a federal
state, provincial reform has been a priority for the Federal Governnent since the early
1990s. During 1992 and 1993, it negotiated two agreements with the provinces to
promote structural economic changes. The provinces agreed to improve own-source
mobilization, restructure provincial taxes and eliminate distortionary taxes, privatize
public enterprises, including the provincial banks and utilities, deregulate the provincial
economy, and transfer the provincial pension funds to the national system. In exchange,
the Federal Government guaranteed a shared-revenue floor to each province, sheltering
them from any downfalls in revenue. It also provided a Transformation Fund, which
helped finance those reforms and provide technical assistance and advisory services.
While a number of provinces began implementing a program of reforms during 1993-94,
it was not until the financial crisis of 1995 that a large number of provinces began to
reform in earnest.
11



Table 2: Fiscal Balance at Federal and Provincial Levels
Est.
1995       1996    1997       1998    1999    2000
Millions of pesos
Federal Government  -2,545      -5,889   -4341     -4170   -7,348   -6,974
Provincial           -3,530     -1,840   -1,377    -2,488   -4,633   -3,517*
Administrations
o/w Buenos Aires    -270       -581    -808    -1,355   -2,150   -1,868
Province
Total               -6,075      -7,729   -5,718    -6,529   -11,981  -10,491
Shares of GDP (%/)
Federal Government  -1.0       -2.2    -1.5        -1.4    -2.6    -2.4
Provincial           -1.4      -0.7    -0.5        -0.8    -1.6    -1.2
Administrations
Total               -2.4       -2.8    -2.0        -2.2    -4.2    -3.6
Note: Deficits exclude privatization proceeds as revenues
Sources: Ministry of Economy, IMF
*Bank Staff Estimate
34. With a more favorable macroeconomic environment beginning in late 1996, and the
reforms undertaken by many provinces, the overall fiscal situation of the provinces
improved remarkably. During the 1997-1998 period the deficit averaged only $0.6
billion (about 30 percent of the consolidated deficit). However, with the current
economic downturn, the deficit level has increased again and is estimated to reach $3.5
billion in 1999, similar to the 1995 level relative to GDP during the Tequila. Moreover, a
number of provinces that had borrowed excessively now have untenable debt service
burdens aggravated by the recent economic downturn: total debt service payments in
1999 were about $4.3 billion on the stock of provincial debt of $19 billion. Since much
of these debts are guaranteed with the individual provinces' income from federal revenue
sharing and are deducted automatically, the shortfall of revenues after debt service falls
directly on the payment of salaries and suppliers the provinces owe.
Bank Support for Provincial Reform
35.  The Bank has been a major partner of the Government since the early 1990's in
supporting provincial reforms and institutional strengthening, through a series of ongoing
investment operations in health, education, agriculture, renewable energy, water supply,
roads and flood control and successful completed operations, including First Provincial
Development Project (Ln. 3280), First Provincial Reform Loan (PRL I) (Ln. 3836),
Provincial Bank Privatization Loan (Ln. 3878), and Provincial Pension Reform Loan
(Ln. 4116)5, supported with important analytical work.6 As a result:
All of these operations were rated either satisfactory or highly satisfactory by OED.
12



* 18 provincial banks and 22 other loss making major public enterprises were
privatized during the period 1995-99 and eight provinces transferred their provincial
pension systems to the reformed national system;
*  provinces have initiated programs, and some are well advanced, in improving their
tax collection systems (cadasters, etc), fiscal management and budgeting systems;
* provinces have entered into fiscal agreements (pactos fiscales) with the Federal
Government to change distortionary provincial taxes and there is an active dialogue,
facilitated by the Bank and in collaboration with the Fund, on further reform of the
federal-provincial tax sharing regime and provincial tax systems (co-participation);
*  most provinces are engaged in the national program  to improve the quality of
secondary education; and support is being provided to improve the management of
provincial public hospitals;
* each year the Bank conducts a review of provincial finances and uses financial
criteria to determine eligibility by the provinces to funds for capital investments; the
only exceptions are for social sector and for flood protection (in the Northeast, subject
to recurring floods that cost the Argentine economy as much as lpercent of GDP in
losses); and
* during the 1995-99 period, the twelve provinces that participated in the provincial
reform program  (PRL I and PRL Ij)7 outperformed other provinces in a variety of
critical areas. Local tax collections increased 26 percent in the PRL provinces, as
compared to 19 percent for all provinces, and expenditure growth was about 25
percent less than the overall average.
Main Challenges in Provincial Reform
36. The process of decentralization has increasingly forged a direct link between the
institutional capacity of sub-national governments and the human and infrastructure
development required to put the country on a sustained growth path. The Argentine
public sector over the last decade has shed unproductive activities and become more
focussed on core functions. With the federal level concentrating on social security,
general regulatory functions and national defense, much of the most complicated and
critical service delivery functions rest with the provinces. Social and economic progress
in Argentina will depend on the ability of the provinces to deliver health, education and
public safety functions effectively and within the context of sustained fiscal balance.
6 Including Argentina Provincial Finances Study, Report No. 15487; Argentina: Reforming Provincial
Utilities, Report No. 15063; Cordoba-Public Sector Assessment, Report No. 15132-AR; Argentina:
Revitalizing the Tucuman Economy, Joint Bank/IFC Note, dated November 2, 1995.
7 Including the provinces of Entre Rios, Misiones, San Juan, Catamarca, Santiago del Estero, Tucuman,
Salta, Rio Negro, Chubut, Santa Cruz, Corrientes, and Chaco. This performance is all the more
impressive given that this group includes several provinces that "dropped out" of the reform process, and
that the provinces that this group is compared with includes several traditionally strong fiscal performers
and provinces undertaking their own adjustment effort outside the PRL umbrella.
13



37. Over the past ten years, the Government's strategy progress from ensuring macro-
economic stability, installing a competitive policy framework for the productive sectors,
and providing basic security for the population to a strategy increasingly emphasizing
second generation reforms, community development and social services. In light of the
role of the provinces in these key areas, it is clear that the locus of activity had to shift
from the central level of administration to that of sub-national governments. Important
challenges remain, which the national and provincial administrations will need to deal
with:
Revenue-Sharing. A long-standing issue facing the Federal Govermnent and the
Provinces has been the system of revenue sharing between the two levels of
government and among the provinces (the system of co-participation). At issue are
finding a better balance between: (i) the collection of taxes and responsibility for
spending; (ii) the incentives for spending and social equity for the poorer provinces;
(iii) the predictability of revenues and the need for fiscal adjustment; (iv) the level of
revenues collected and the incentives for economic efficiency; and (v) the
transparency in the allocation process and the need to provide emergency support. A
new agreement that is more equitable and efficient could help provide greater
incentives for provinces to collect their own revenues, spend more wisely, and to
relieve reoccurring political pressure on the Federal Government for bailouts.
However, finding such a balance, while ensuring the 100 percent acceptance by all
the parties needed to put the new system into place by law, has been hard (in contrast,
the Convertibility Law, which radically changed the economic landscape in
Argentina, only required a two-thirds majority vote). The political difficulties of
reaching a new agreement cannot be overstated, particularly with current fiscal
problems that gives the Federal Government little with which to bargain. Indeed, the
Constitutional reform of 1994 had mandated that such an agreement be reached by
1996. On the other hand, as an increasing number of provinces see the wisdom of
bringing their own house in fiscal order, with the support of the Federal Government,
the Bank and the IDB, the constituents for a system that rewards greater efficiency
has grown markedly during the past decade.
Heterogeneity among Provinces. There is no uniform solution. The situation in the
24 provinces remains highly disparate. There are well performing provinces, such as
La Pampa and San Luis, which are able to provide good quality public services to
their small and well off populations. The largest provinces, such as Santa Fe,
Mendoza, C6rdoba and the Province of Buenos Aires, have undergone varying
degrees of adjustment in the 1990's but still have difficulties in cyclical downturns
and need to upgrade the quality and coverage of their public services. Since the
largest concentration of the urban poor are in these provinces, it is critical that they
are able to meet the challenge of poverty reduction. Other resource rich provinces,
such as Chubut, Neuquen and Santa Cruz, have small populations, low levels of
poverty, and high revenues from natural resources but could benefit from reforms to
enhance quality and efficiency of the public services. At the other end of the
spectrum, there are a number of provinces, typically among the poorest, with high
social demands, poor institutional capacities, weak fiscal performance and high debt.
The general characteristics of the provinces are presented in Annex K.
14



* Fiscal and Debt Problems. Chronic deficits and dangerous levels of indebtedness in
a few of provinces generate social and political unrest and contribute to the overall
fiscal problem in Argentina. Unfortunately, some of these provinces are among the
country's poorest and it is difficult to conceive that growth combined with fiscal
restraint will be sufficient to face their debt burdens. A part of the problem is the
short term nature of their debts and another part of the problem is the lack of
incentives by the banks and capital market to restrain new borrowings as provincial
debts enjoy full guarantee from the respective province's share of federal-shared
revenues. Achieving a sustainable fiscal position in some cases may require a
combination of debt restructuring and fiscal measures; in other cases, fiscal measures
alone may be sufficient. The approach should be case-by-case, and well grounded on
changing future incentives to prevent a reoccurrence. At the same time, there is still
much to be done to lower the overall fiscal deficit, particularly among the largest
provinces - such as Buenos Aires, C6rdoba, and Santa Fe-which have the capacity
to meet their debt obligations and account for the bulk of the aggregate provincial
deficit in the past year.
* Regional Dimensions of Poverty. Poverty rates are substantially higher in provinces
in the north, particularly in the Northwest (46%) and Northeast (49%). Conversely
Buenos Aires (including the City and Province) and five Patagonian provinces in the
southern part of the country have lower poverty rates than the national average.
Argentina's economic performance has also has a varied impact depending upon the
region. In the early 1990's, overall poverty rates fell by 48 percent, but poverty in the
two poorest regions in the Northeast and the Northwest fell by about half of that. In
other words, the poorest provinces benefited less from overall growth than the richer
ones. However, when poverty rose during the 1994-98 period, the increases in
poverty were greater in those provinces that traditionally had the lowest poverty rates;
that is, the province of Buenos Aires, Cuyo (western provinces straddling the Andes)
and the Pampa region (the central plains). More generally, the provinces in the
Northeast and Northwest tend to have higher percentages of rural populations and
indigenous peoples: a survey of rural poverty in two of these provinces showed that
poverty rates among the rural populations are exceedingly high-some 70 percent.
* Differences in Social Performance. Social indicators show large variance among
regions, particularly in health. In Greater Buenos Areas and the larger provinces such
as Santa Fe and C6rdoba, the health profile is broadly similar to that of the developed
world. Other areas of the country, particularly the poorer North, face a very different
health profile. For example, their infant mortality rates of 29 per 1000 are almost 70
percent higher than in greater Buenos Aires. Regional difference in education are less
stark, with most parts of the country performing poorly in retention rates, but the
quality of education, based on national testing, is particularly deficient in the North.
* Municipal Governments. The process of reform in Argentina has been cascading: it
occurred first that the federal level in the early 1990's and then shifted to the
provincial level by the mid- 1990's. It has yet to reach the municipalities that have the
potential to take on more responsibilities and to become more accountable. Issues in
fiscal management and revenue sharing also remain as a major challenge in
15



provincial-municipal relations. Although municipal governments in the aggregate
only account for less than 10 percent of public expenditures, the failure of most to
engage in meaningful reform undermines these efforts in a number of provinces, and
provides a weak basis for confronting growing urban problems and meeting the needs
of the poor for basic infrastructure, garbage and waste disposal, and other urban
services. A very large deficit of basic water and sanitation services exists. Some
municipalities are increasing providing primary health care, day care services,
community kitchens and the distribution of food supplements for the poor. Thus,
there is room for greater decentralization and consolidation of social services at the
local level. Municipalities are also at the interface with the private sector, concerned
with business licensing, among other things, which has an impact on private sector
development. As of now, there is no comprehensive strategy as to how to bring the
process to reform to this level of government.
Government Strategy and Bank Assistance
38.  The new administration is giving top priority to provincial reform and, as noted
above, has included specific benchmarks for this effort under its new agreement with the
Fund. Its two-track strategy would seek to continue the dialogue and improving the
environment for reforming the current system of co-participation, while further
improving the incentives of the current system and supporting the reform efforts of
individual provinces. To support improvements in provincial finances, the Federal
Government would exercise its authority to limit external debt and borrowing from the
domestic banking system by the provinces. This would help to enhance the hard budget
constraints and builds on earlier efforts to enhance the transparency of the system and to
reduce discretionary transfers. It is also implementing a program of debt relief for about
one-third of the smaller provinces willing to put in place fiscal measures to control
spending. Specifically, the administration reached agreement with the provinces, the
Compromiso Federal, as follows:
-  Primary distribution through year 2005. For 2001 and 2002, the provinces will
receive a fixed monthly amount equal to $1.364 billion, with those funds that might
otherwise have gone to them from increased tax collections retained by the Federal
Government to meet its obligations. In the short-run this should support fiscal and
macro stability. Over the medium term, this stability would be strengthened by
agreement to provide the provinces with transfers based on a three-year moving
average. This would smooth out such transfers over the 2003-2005 period and avoid
the bust-boom in provincial revenues experienced during the 1990s.
* New social fund. The Federal Government will would set channel $225 million from
its own programs for new employment and social programs to be administered
exclusively by the provinces in 2001. The new commitment would give the
provinces responsibility for 30-50 percent of employment programs in future years.
* A commitment to freeze primary expenditures if a province is running a deficit, and a
general agreement to eliminate automatic wage increases.
16



*  Commitment to a new general co-participation law during 2001. If by 2003, a new
law is not approved, the Federal Government would submit a new law to Congress
with certain features listed in the Compromiso Federal.
* Public sector modernization. The provinces commit to implementing multi-year
budgeting, and to provide detailed, regular publication of fiscal information. The
Federal Government would publish information on the geographic location of its
expenditures. Other commitments in terms of public sector modernization include
implementing SINTyS, the ORISIS tax administration system, and consistent pay
scales for public sector workers.
39.  The Government's strategy to step up provincial reform is designed to provide a
more favorable environment and the political support necessary for reforming the system
of revenue sharing. This is a fundamental policy issue which is exceedingly complex and
difficult to resolve. As noted above, the Government has a two year window for lasting
changes to th svstem and has been able to reach an understanding on some principles,
most notabl, the need to smooth these transfers overtime, and to have a more
independent body to monitor the system. Through advisory services and ESW, the Bank
has been pro-iding the analytical bases for this effort.8 Under the SSAL, the Government
prepared a detailed technical proposal, initiated a round of public debate on the subject,
and began to work towards a consensus with the provinces. The CAS for FYO1-04 also
provides for Bank support to further assist in this effort to improve federal-provincial
fiscal relations.
40.  The Fede-ral Government has also asked for continued Bank support though direct
of selected provinces in meeting the commitments of the Compromiso Federal. As
noted, the Federal Government has already engaged 13 of the smaller, heavily-indebted
provinces in fiscal reform programs with some success. The first nine participating
provinces were able to reduced their combined deficits of $1.2 billion in 1999 to about
$0.6 billion in 2000. For its part, the Bank has been requested to continue to focus its
support to individual provinces using the approach piloted under the Second Provincial
Loan (PRLII) (see para. 42).
41.  This approach combines measures to strengthen social assistance during the current
economic dowvnturn and longer-term measures to alleviate poverty and enhance equity
through human resource development and through sustainable economic growth and
competitiveness. Participating provinces would be selected based on ownership of the
reform program, demonstrated success in implementing first generation reforms
(typically privatization of the provincial bank or other major public enterprises, as well as
advances in financial management), have positive performance under other Bank-
financed projects, and have attained a modicum of fiscal stability so that they are able to
concentrate on structural issues, particularly in the delivery of social services. Priority
would be given to those provinces with programs having the greatest potential to have a
positive impact on reducing poverty and enhancing equity and which can serve as leading
8 Including the recent report, Argentina: Provincial Tax and Revenue-Sharing Reform, gray cover Report
No. 19395-AR, dated June 30, 1999.
17



cases of successful reform for other provinces. The objectives, design and experiences
under the PRLII approach are outlined below.
Individual Provincial Reform Programs
Background
42.  In 1996, the Federal Government recognized the need for a second phase of
provincial reforms to follow on the First Provincial Reform Loan (PRLI). The PRLI
supported first generation structural reforms, including privatization, which provided a
better balance in the role of the state and its fiscal means and a more stable, immediate
fiscal situation, but it was clear that the provinces needed to address issues of efficiency,
quality and equity of core public services, especially in health and education. Four
provinces were selected for piloting this approach -- Tucuman, Salta, San Juan and Rio
Negro - and to participate in the Bank's Second Provincial Reform Loans (PRL I1), based
on their previous reform performance under the PRL I, and the difficulties that they
continued to face.
Reform Goals and Actions
43. The provincial reform program for individual participating provinces seeks to
ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of remaining public social services,
particularly those targeted to the poor, within fiscally sound policies. The reform
program is designed to face the development challenges of alleviating poverty and
enhancing equity with measures designed to promote human resource development and
sustainable economic growth and competitiveness over the longer term, as well as actions
to strengthen the social safety net during the current economic downturn. While the
nature of the problems may vary across provinces and the reform programs are tailor-
made to each, the pillars of the reform program are common and include three basic
components: public finance, education, and health.
44. Reforms in public finance are focused on achieving a sustainable fiscal situation by
rationalizing expenditures, giving priority to core areas benefiting the poor, enhancing
local revenue mobilization, and reducing the debt burden. Local resource mobilization is
emphasized not only to increase revenues, but to enhance accountability and to reduce, at
least somewhat, the pro-cyclical impact of federal transfers derived mainly from
consumption taxes. Civil service reform is promoted not only to enhance the productivity
of public employees, but to increase resources available for investment by reducing the
relative share of the wage bill. Experience under the completed PRL H suggests that
increased local revenues, changes in the structure of expenditures, and lowering debt are
all required to provide for greater flexibility when the provincial governments need to
adjust in the face of economic downturns. The basic elements of the program include:
* improvement in tax collection and administration to promote higher reliance on own-
source revenues and increased accountability;
18



*  civil service reform including reduction of the wage bill and redundant personnel;
improved training and compensation; control to lower absenteeism and
overpayments; and
*  rationalization of public expenditures and prioritization of government spending, with
emphasis on privatization and outsourcing to improve reliability and quality of public
services and lower the fiscal burden.
45.  On the social sector side, the emphasis is to increase the efficiency and quality of
the education and health sectors, focusing on demand and poverty reduction aspects,
while promoting increased involvement by the private sector. The large majority of
provinces appear to devote sufficient resources to public health and education, most at
levels higher than OECD countries relative to per capita incomes; however, the
efficiency, quality and often the equity of this spending are poor. The basic strategy is to
protect current levels of spending, while at the same time changing the structure of
expenditures to increase investment and providing incentives for improvements.
46. In education, despite attractive returns to higher education, dropout rates from
secondary school among the poor are high. In Argentina only 24 percent of students in
the lowest quintile complete secondary school, compared to 76 percent for the upper
quintile. Proposed reforms seek to ensure the extension of obligatory education (from six
to nine years) as mandated the National Education Law, while improving efficiency and
quality. Given the low productivity in most provinces, with student/teacher ratios in
some cases double those of comparators, and high levels of teacher absenteeism
(sometimes four times as high as comparators), much of this can potentially be financed
within the current budget, with some short-term increases to cover investment in
classrooms, materials and teacher training. In addition, most provinces need to undergo
important reforms to provide incentives to improve quality, including changing seniority-
based teacher remuneration systems into merit-based systems, and decentralizing greater
control to the school level. Priority actions include:
* increasing low student/teacher ratios and the participation of staff actively teaching as
a share of total staff;
*  reducing disproportionate use of temporary and substitute education personnel;
*  improving the incentives for quality improvement;
*  increasing the participation of the private sector; and
*  reducing administrative costs.
47.  In health, despite the availability of health care generally through public hospitals,
care is of poorer quality for poorer people. For example, 25 percent of women in the
lowest income levels are delivered by non-doctors, while none at the upper level; over 30
percent of women in the lowest quintile have no post delivery follow-up, compared to
only 2 percent of those in the upper quintile; 74 percent from lowest have to wait more
than 24 hours for a consultation, as compared to only 45 percent of those in the upper
19



quintile. Proposed health reforms seek to increase overall investment largely within the
current budget envelope and to induce improvements in efficiency, quality and equity by
promoting the separation of the supply of services from the financing, cost-recovery for
care provided by public hospital to insured patients, hospital accreditation and quality
assurance systems, and health insurance for the poor. A fundamental element of this
strategy, self-administered public hospitals, was pioneered in Argentina under the
ongoing Provincial Health Development Project (PRESSAL, Ln. 3931 -AR). On the
financing side, the Bank supported reforms in the national health insurance system
(Health Insurance Reform Loan Ln. 4002/3AR and Health Insurance Technical
Assistance Project Ln 4004-AR) to enhance efficiency and promote competition. The
PRL program combines these two reform elements in participating provinces and
promotes the incorporation of the uninsured poor into the system to help ensure equity in
access to services. The main actions being undertaken cover reforms in the area of
personal health care delivery, public health finance and public health administration and
include:
  extending the Provincial Health Insurance to the uninsured poor;
* restructuring the Provincial Health Insurance carrier (Obra Social Provincial);
-  reducing staff and reallocating resources to non-personnel expenditures;
*  reallocating resources from personal health care to essential public health services,
including health promotion, reproductive health and injury control;
*  promoting public hospital autonomy; and
*  improving the integration between primary and secondary health care
Progress in Provincial Reform
48. Of the four pilot provinces for PRL 11, the loans for Salta and Tucumnan have been
evaluated using the new intensive learning approach, including participatory workshops
and review by specialists from outside the region. Both have been evaluated by OED as
satisfactory and have sustained their fiscal improvements since loan completion.9 In
contrast, in both Rio Negro and San Juan, program objectives were not achieved, and the
third tranches for both operations were cancelled. ICRs for these two loans were recently
completed. In both cases the deteriorating macroeconomic environment beginning 1999
contributed to difficulties in meeting fiscal targets, and the provinces were unwilling to
take the measures necessary to remain on track. Both have since entered into the new
fiscal programs monitored by the Federal Government to achieve a fiscal balance by the
end 2004.
49. The lessons from the pilot program are outlined below, and have been used to
inform the design of succeeding operations. Despite the problems encountered by two of
the four pilot provinces in meeting fiscal targets, as noted in the ICRs, the overall fiscal
9 Reports Nos. 20699 and 20698, both dated June 30, 2000.
20



performance by the four provinces under this program has been exceptional when
compared to other provinces. In particular, during the 1996-98 period they averaged an
increase in current savings of 93 percent, compared to a nine percent decline in current
savings by the other provinces; and their debt stock increased on average only two
percent, as compared to almost 19 percent in other provinces. Despite the deterioration in
the overall economy during 1998-2000, and national and provincial elections in 1999, the
performance, for the 1996-2000 period as a whole, PRLII provinces continued to
outperform other provinces, with average increases in own resource mobilization of 20
percent, compared to 10 percent for all other provinces, and in maintaining spending
increases at under 7 percent, as compared to a 27 percent increase among other provinces
during the period. The impact of the PRLII program on social service delivery is
expected to be in the medium to long-term, but preliminary results are encouraging in
Salta and Tucuman, which completed the reform  program.  Indicators suggest
improvements in both health service efficiency and quality in the self-administered
hospitals. In education and the implementation of the federal reform, Salta in particular
has been able to increase enrollments in secondary schools, reduce costs per student and
realize improvements in student achievement over the 1993-1999 period.
50. Emerging lessons from the ongoing experience suggests that the loan design for a
direct relation between the Bank and the participating province is important in enabling
the Bank to bring to bear its international experience and facilitating reform dialogue
between federal and provincial stakeholders. Project design also puts local governors at
the forefront of implementation and dialogue has helped to improve performance under
other investment operations in which the provinces participate.  In addition, the
provincial approach to promoting innovative sector reforms in health and education
appears to be a fundamental complement to the Bank's efforts in these areas at the
national level. Drawing on the recent ICRs, important lessons include:
*  Fiscal adjustment and social sector reforms: There can be tensions in meeting
these two objectives, particularly where fiscal adjustments are not taken upfront and
need to be undertaken in the middle of the reform process. Although the programs
provided for protecting overall spending in health and education, sector reforms often
become associated with fiscal adjustment resulting in unwarranted resistance.
Moreover, urgent needs to downsize staffing may result in losing better qualified staff
before improved human resource management systems can be put into place to
provide incentives for better performance. At the same time, since the bulk of public
spending is in these sectors, their reform is crucial in sustaining fiscal equilibrium.
The lesson is that sequencing is important and that the PRLII approach is more
successful and sustainable for provinces that have already achieved a level of control
in their fiscal and debt situations.
*  Sustainability: The loans were designed to fully disburse within 12-18 months of
effectiveness; however, the reform effort took longer than anticipated and even longer
to begin showing results. This makes more important to consider political cycles. All
the provinces in the program held elections during the last year of implementation,
and in two cases there was a change in governing political parties. While the new
administrations have slowly begun to take ownership of many of the reforms, after
21



first rejecting them outright, there was a loss in the reform momentum and questions
of sustainability persist. The lesson is that reforms have a better chance of being
sustainable if they are fully in place, not just enacting new measures but
institutionalizing new arrangements, prior to any change in administration.
*  Ownership: While all the governors were committed to the reforms, in one of the
provinces the executive branch did not enjoy the support of the legislative branch. As
a result, the reform effort was implemented using executive decrees that could easily
be rescinded by a new administration. The lesson is that ownership needs to be as
broad based as possible and that commitment to the reform program requires the
support of the legislative branch, particularly if it is controlled by an opposition
political party. At the sector level, those with a reform champion with vision
appeared to perform better during implementation, and the overall programs benefited
when the program coordinator had a direct link to the governor and political weight
vis-A-vis the cabinet.
*  Institution  BuildinglParticipation:    The  reforms  introduced  institutional
arrangements that affect incentives governing policymaking and service delivery.
While they combined mechanisms of voice, competition and hierarchy into service
delivery reforms, in some cases there were no clear signals within the public
administration to ensure allegiance to these reforms.   The lesson is that
complementary accountability and transparency mechanisms would help to ensure
improved implementation and greater sustainability. The legitimacy of the reforms
were enhanced in those cases where a participatory process was followed involving
stakeholders such as teachers, medical staff, and parents and where an effort was
made to inform the general public on the nature of the reforms. The participatory
approach facilitated the resolution of the constraints that appeared during its
implementation and provided options to resolve the potential conflicts. Also, this
approach guaranteed the legitimacy of the new formula. The lesson is that project
preparation should be informed by a social assessment and that participatory
mechanisms be provided during implementation.
51. In summary, the provincial reform approach piloted under PRL II is emerging as a
powerful vehicle for promoting innovative sector reforms in health and education as well
as fiscal sustainability, and appears to be a fundamental complement to the Bank's efforts
in these areas at the national level and sector level investment programs. Individual
provincial reform programs, together with continuing support for reform in revenue-
sharing, have been identified in the FY01-04 CAS as the main pillars for the Bank's
continued support for provincial reform in Argentina, with a renewal of the series of
provincial reform loans. To date, among the large provinces, the Bank has already
approved the Cordoba Provincial Reform Loan in FY01 and has prepared this proposed
program with the Province of Santa Fe. Ongoing efforts to engage the largest province,
Buenos Aires, in a program have not been successful to date because of a lack of
agreement on a sustainable fiscal program (the province has generated about half of the
consolidated provincial deficit in recent years),10 although there has been important
10 The Bank's latest analysis of provincial finances reveals that the Province of Buenos Aires is still likely
to be facing a considerable deficit in 2005 if it does not take additional measures to curb spending. Thus,
22



dialogue and assistance in preparing proposals for health and education sector reforms.
The Province of Misiones, with Bank support, is actively engaged in preparing a program
for FY02. Other potential participants include Mendoza and Entre Rios. This group of
five provinces represents about 30 percent of public spending among the provinces, not
including Buenos Aires which itself accounts for another 30 percent.
II. THE REFORMING PROVINCE OF SANTA FE
The Challenge
52. Located in the middle of Argentina, Santa Fe is the country's second largest
province, with a population of 3.1 million. With per capita income of $6,400, about 15
percent below the national average ($7,500), Santa Fe faces serious challenges in
sustaining improvements in social welfare, particularly with the current economic
downturn. Unemployment, which had already been rising during the restructuring of the
local economy during the 1990s, has been exacerbated by the current three-year
economic downturn in Argentina. Rosario, the industrial hub of Santa Fe, has one of the
highest unemployment rates in Argentina of 18.5 percent (May 2000) and in the
provincial capital, the City of Santa Fe, unemployment reached 16.1 percent 1 , as
compared to average unemployment in the Province of 6.9 percent in 1991, and the
current national figure of 15.7 percent. Because unemployment has hit basically heads of
households (70 percent) the impact has had serious consequences, both socially and
economically. The socioeconomic profile of the unemployed suggests serious constraints
for reemployment because low levels of education (66 percent only primary school) and
age (36 percent were 40-49 years old).  There is evidence of increasing family
disintegration, men leaving their families and domestic violence. Unemployment is also
significant among young people, with almost 35 percent of young persons between the
ages of 18 and 24 unemployed and not attending school.12 There is a general perception
of increased violence among youths, particularly in the larger urban areas, contributing to
a feeling of insecurity.  Moreover, with self-employment and an informal sector
accounting for almost 30 percent of the labor force in the main metropolitan areas, a
significant population lives outside the formal social safety net
53. The agenda facing Santa Fe is challenging, and includes alleviating the constraints
on private sector development, assisting the poor in regaining their economic livelihood,
ensuring that the next generation is armed with the tools necessary to compete in the open
economy and strengthening the social safety net for the vulnerable groups. However, the
ability of the Province to respond is constrained by limited fiscal resources and will
require a reorientation of spending to improve efficiency, quality and equity.
The Reform Program of Santa Fe
the performance of the Province of Buenos Aires could significantly affect the chances of Argentina
meeting the goal of fiscal sustainability as now set out in the Law of Fiscal Responsibility.
I I IPEC Data for the Province; IDEC estimates for Rosario and Santa Fe.
12 Sistema de Informaci6n Social (SIS) November 2000 sample.
23



54. The reform program, which was developed with support from the Bank, is designed
to face these development challenges of alleviating poverty and enhancing equity with
actions to strengthen the social safety net during the current economic downturn, as well
as measures designed to promote human resource development and sustainable economic
growth and competitiveness over the longer term. The Province has demonstrated its
commitment to the reform process by successfully implementing a series of first-
generation reforms, including privatization of the public provincial bank and major public
enterprises, and in improving financial management. The proposed program has the
strong commitment of the Governor and the line ministries and has undergone a process
of social consultation (para 110). It also incorporates the main lessons learned from
previous PRL operation (para 92). The program is focused on actions to reduce poverty
and improve equity through public expenditures and service delivery. It is consistent
with the findings of the most recent Poverty Assessment, which highlighted the
importance of growth for supporting reductions in poverty and identified factors such as
education levels and gender as significant in explaining wage differentials. The strategy
would combine direct local actions within the jurisdictional responsibilities and
capabilities of the Provincial Government with other measures designed to complement
and reinforce national efforts to alleviate poverty.
*  Social Protection.  With the Federal Government currently having primary
responsibility for social protection, the provincial strategy is to enhance provincially-
financed programs that benefit from local delivery mechanisms, linking them with
national programs to improve targeting, and strengthening local institutions to assume
greater delivery responsibility in conjunction with national efforts to further
decentralize delivery of social protection. In health care, which has already been
decentralized to the provincial level, the focus would be placed on providing poor
mothers with pre-natal care and children of poor families with primary care. Finally,
measures to harmonize the provincial pension system with the national semi-
privatized system would enhance the national effort to redirect social security system
to provide basic support and broaden coverage to the poor and uninsured.
*  Human Resource Development. Poverty alleviation and equity over the longer term
would be promoted through both human resource development by improving the
efficiency, quality and equity of public spending in education and health. Enhancing
primary care targeted to the poor, noted above, would be reinforced more broadly at
the secondary attention level by improving the efficiency and quality of public
hospitals, where most of the uninsured poor receive health care services. Equity
would be further enhanced by requiring cost recovery from insured patients using the
public facilities.  Similarly, in basic public education, which has also been
decentralized to the province, system-wide improvements would improve overall
efficiency and quality would be combined with targeting curriculum reform and
quality improvements to schools in poorer neighborhoods, and equity would be
enhanced by better targeting of subsidies now provided to privately-managed schools.
*  Sustainable Growth and Competitiveness. The fiscal program of the Province is
consistent with national efforts to strengthen public finances and reduce country risk.
Together with directly reinforcing the national effort, as the second largest province,
24



Santa Fe provides an important demonstration effect for other provinces that have
been reluctant so far to strengthen their public finances. On the spending side, within
an overall framework of fiscal discipline, vital public services in health, education
and social protection would be protected. Fiscally prudent public investment would
be directed to alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks and increased efficiency in power
distribution would allow for reducing tariffs faced by consumers and small and
medium-sized firms (SME), which provide the bulk of employment (about 70
percent). To enhance the sustainability of these investments and to mitigate impacts,
environmental assessments would be required. As a major agricultural producer,
natural resource management is a priority of the Province, which has recently raised
environmental oversight responsibilities  to  the  secretarial level.   Finally,
harmonization of the provincial pension system would not only improve local public
finances, but would also strengthen national efforts to create a system of mobile
coverage to enhance labor flexibility. Labor costs would also be directly reduced by
eliminating local payroll taxes and the Province would begin to reduce other
distortive taxes, such as the stamp tax, that are a burden on local businesses.
Strengthening Public Finance
55.  Over the last decade Santa Fe has enjoyed one of the better and most consistent
fiscal    performances     among                     _            _
Argentine provinces. Many of the I              Deficits as a Sham eofCuueat Re-enues
basic  reforms  and  measures  to        20-/
promote fiscal discipline were put in    15%
place     during     an.    earlier       0%
administration   of  the   current
governor.  The Tequila crisis of          0
1995   exposed  the   continuing
fragility  of the  fiscal  balance,
-10%    .     .
however, and efforts were increased           Pvc L ___ S F -*-- S__ Fe _ _  B
to bring the Province back into
balance, including the privatization of the water utility and the provincial bank. The
latter privatization resulted in another spike in the overall deficit, but the Province was
able to clean up the contingent liabilities associated with the negative net worth of the
provincially owned bank and converted them into straight debt of the province
(approximately $400 million).
56.  In 1999, the recession and election year dynamics again resulted in a deficit in
Santa Fe of $198 million, or 8 percent of current revenues. (Note: the aggregate deficit of
the provinces that year was $4.5 billion, or about 15 percent of aggregate current
revenues.) Given the difficult financial situation of 1999, in September, the Provincial
Government secured legislative approval of an emergency law that included a reduction
in salaries of better-paid public employees, a reduction in pension benefits, and a re-
negotiation of contracts with service providers, seeking out savings.
57. With the emergency law in place, the new Government in 2000 succeeded in
dramatically improving the fiscal situation, despite the slow economic recovery
nationally and locally. GDP was stagnant for the year as a whole, after very modest gains
25



in the first semester. Expenditure adjustments and tax administration measures were
instrumented so as to cut the provincial fiscal deficit virtually in half, to an estimated
$100 million in the year 2000. On the revenue side, the government implemented a tax
amnesty and other administrative measures that have allowed total tax revenues to
increase, despite flat GDP growth. During the year 2000, tax revenues increased 2.8
percent relative to 1999. About half of this growth was due to the payment of back taxes
through the amnesty program.
58.  Indebtedness at reasonable levels. Despite the sharp increase in indebtedness in the
late 1990s due to the provincial bank privatization, the Province's debt stock is estimated
at end-2000 to be $1.1 billion, or a moderate 46 percent of current revenues. In addition,
about thirty-five percent of the debt stock is a stable, short-term "float" from the accrual
accounting system, and the fact that the December payrolls, including semi-annual
bonuses, and some other supplier contracts are traditionally paid in the first few days of
January. The rest of the debt is fairly evenly divided across 3 categories: (1) debt to the
federal government from on-lending of multilateral development banks; (2) debt to the
federal government bank privatization fund; and (3) commercial bank debt. Only the
latter category is somewhat shorter term (4 years on average) and high interest rate (12-
13 percent). Total debt service is projected to be about 6 percent of current revenues
during the 2001 to 2003 period. Both debt and debt service indicators fall well within the
fiscal eligibility criteria established for provinces to access World Bank investment loans.
Following the privatization of the provincial bank, the one major remaining contingent
liability issue lies with the provincial employee pension plan.
59. Employee pension system deficit. The Emergency Law of late 1999 imposed
actions to reduce the system deficit, which reached $130 million, by reducing benefits. A
"solidarity contribution" was imposed -- essentially a deduction from existing pension
levels. For the longer term, the Provincial Government has reached an agreement with
the Federal Government, whereby the Province will gradually enact measures that
harmonize the provincial employee's pension system rules with the national semi-
privatized pension system. In return the Federal Government will gradually begin to
finance the provincial pension deficit, transferring resources for that purpose: 5 percent
retroactively for the year 2000 (already paid), 25 percent for 2001 (currently being
effected on a monthly basis), 50 percent for 2002, 75 percent in 2003 and 100 percent in
2004.
60.  The use of electric company privatization revenues. The government's multi-year
fiscal program is designed to reach fiscal equilibrium in 2003, excluding privatization
revenues. An effort to concession the public electricity distribution company is now
underway. The privatization law earmarks the proceeds, inter alia, for new investment
and a fiscal stabilization fund. This earmarking could present challenges to the fiscal
program; however, there is always flexibility in investment programming in that the
earmarked programs could substitute for some of the regular investments. The fact that
the earmarked federal transfers tied to investments will be 50 percent "un-tied" during the
next five years provides even more flexibility. In brief, the privatization law does not
necessarily imply that total investment spending must increase and jeopardize the fiscal
targets. With or without the proceeds from privatization of the electric company, the
26



Province plans to increase capital expenditures over the next three years to about 10
percent of current revenues, as shown in Table 3, below.
61. The impact of the Federal Agreement of November 2000. The Government is
committed to comply with the Federal Agreement of November 2000. In this agreement,
the provinces and the Federal Government commit to freezing total primary expenditures
so long as a fiscal imbalance is present. The Federal Agreement itself was sanctioned by
the Federal Congress, and it also has been sanctioned by the Provincial Legislature of
Santa Fe. The freeze will be implemented in part by capping federal transfers to the
provinces over the 2001-2002 period. In 2003, a new moving average rule applies where
the provinces will receive an average of the share they would have received in the three
most recent years, under the regular revenue-sharing law. The implications, in terms of
Santa Fe's revenues, are reflected in the scenario below, based on the Federal
Government's assumptions for future growth.
Table 3: Fiscal Program of Santa Fe Province
(Millions of Pesos)                               1999      2000     2001      2002      2003
I - CURRENT REVENUES                             2,376     2,434     2,531     2,585    2,673
Own Revenues                                    976     1,012      993      1,036    1,063
T Taxes                                         874      898       875       893       915
. Non-tax Revenues                              102      114       118       143       148
Revenue-sharing and other Transfers           1,400     1,422     1,538     1,549     1,610
o/w Special Transfers for Pension Deficit       -        -        39        64       96
II - CURRENT EXPENDITURES                        2,390     2,394     2,407     2,412    2,438
. Personnel                                   1,410     1,439     1,404     1,404     1,404
. Good & Services                               188       196      220       220       224
. Interest                                       46        68       63        65        65
. Current Transfers                             747       690      720       724       744
III - CAPITAL REVENUES                              41        38        45        55       65
IV - CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                          224       179       250      250       274
(includes bank privatization "costs" in 1998)
V - TOTAL REVENUES                               2,417     2,472     2,576     2,640     2,738
VI - TOTAL EXPENDITURES                           2,615    2,572     2,657     2,662     2,711
VII - DEFICIT (VI - V) ("-" indicates surplus)     198       101        81        22      -27
IX. FINANCING                                      293       236       161       118       77
-Borrowing                                      279       121       161      118       130
.Commercial Banks (and gapfill for proj. years)  279    121        11        68         -
.Bank PRL Loan                                   -        -       150        50       130
-Use (+) or Accumulation (-) of Assets           14       117         -         -      (53)
X. AMORTIZATION                                     95       135        80        95       104
Memo: Debt Stock                                  1,134    1,117     1,197     1,220     1,246
62.  Reducing distortions in local taxes.  The Government of Santa Fe plans to
implement several measures to decrease economic distortions in the local tax system.
The most important of these measures is the gradual elimination of a provincial payroll
27



tax on the industrial sector. In addition, the Province has eliminated the stamp tax on
transactions that involve the registration, expansion or creation of new companies.
Finally, the Province has enacted reduction in the first quarter of payments of the gross
receipts tax for new small and medium enterprises. These latter measures have a small
fiscal cost; however, the payroll tax reduction carries an annual fiscal cost of $15 million
(less than 1 percent of total current revenues) once fully implemented. These costs are
considered in the projections.
63.  On the expenditure side, the Province plans to freeze primary current expenditures,
but under agreement with the Federal Government there are plans to increase capital
expenditures, resulting in a small increase in total primary expenditures. While such an
increase is not strictly in keeping with a the primary expenditure freeze of the Federal
Agreement, it is within an overall program that would reach fiscal equilibrium by 2003, a
full two years prior to the target under the Federal Agreement.
Table 4: Fiscal Indicators
1999      2000       2001       2002      2003
Expenditure Balance
Personnel/ Current Revenues              59%        59%       55%        54%        53%
Interest/ Current Revenues                2%         3%        2%         3%         2%
Total Debt Service/ Current Revenues      6%         8%        6%         6%         6%
Fiscal Balance
Current Balance*/ Current Revenues       -4%         0%        3%         5%         7%
Primary Balance/ Current Revenues        -6%        -1%        -1%        2%         3%
Overall Balance**/ Current Revenues      -8%        -4%       -3%        -1%         1%
Indebtedness (end of period)
Debt Stock! Current Revenues             48%        46%       47%        47%        47%
Debt Stock/ Population ($)              373.2      364.1     386.9      390.7      395.5
Tax Revenue Performance
Own Tax Rev's/ Current Revenues          37%        37%       35%        35%        34%
Own Tax Revs/ Population ($)            287.4      292.9     282.8      286.1      290.5
*Transfers tied to capital expenditures are deducted from current revenues only for the calculation of
this current balance (50 percent of legally tied transfers).
** Excludes privatization proceeds as revenues. In 1998, includes the absorption of debt from the
provincial bank privatization as an expenditure item.
64.  If the Province succeeds in privatizing the electric company at the expected price,
the Province will be able to reduce the value of its debt substantially.'   Since the
Province has already programmed an increase in capital expenditures, privatization
would imply only a small increase in expenditures relative to the base case displayed in
Table 3.
3 It might be more of "net debt" reduction, in that some receipts would be set aside for fiscal stabilization.
28



Figure 1: Fiscal Indicators
SANTA FE: Key Indicatoms
70%
6 0 %  -- - - - - - - - -                   - - - - - - - - - - - - -
-_ i - PersonneV Current
Revenues
40%     Current Babance*/
/  i.   Current Revenues
3 0 %/                     - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -
20% - -       -        ---------       -----------           A-  Debt Stockl Current
lRevenues
10%  --   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_   _ _   .  _
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~Overall Babance/
0M0 S ~~~~~%\ | \ i e~~~~~ | < ~~Current Revenues
1 6     1997    1998                               2002    23
-20% -- -- --- -      - -- --------------      - -- - -- - -   l -    
65. Below are listed the monitoring indicators for fiscal performance and the
performance targets expected from the Province's fiscal program.
Table 5: Fiscal Targets and Monitoring Indicators
Indicator                                          Performance Target
Debt to Current Revenues                           Ratio less than 50 percent.
Current Balance to Current Revenues                Continuous improvement in current balance
reaching at least 4 percent of current revenues
Fiscal Deficit (excluding privatization            Continuous improvement reaching fiscal
revenues) to Current Revenues                      balance by 2003 or sooner.
Provincial Own Tax Revenues                        Growth at least as fast as national'4 GDP
growth (after compensating for payroll tax
reduction)
66. Sensitivity Analysis and Downside Risks. The revenue assumptions were subjected
to sensitivity analysis to examine the risks from slower than expected economic growth.
The table below shows the results from three different nominal GDP growth scenarios.
14 Provincial GDP is not measured frequently or consistently enough to use for monitoring perfornance.
29



With more robust growth scenario (1), fiscal balance could be achieved already next year
instead of 2003. On the other hand, under the recession scenario (2) or one in which
there is no federal assistance for the pension system reform (3), a balanced budget cannot
be achieved without further adjustment. In addition, under these pessimistic scenarios,
the 50 percent benchmark for the debt to current revenue ratio would be breached by
about 2 percentage points. Thus, the Province's fiscal performance continues to be
highly sensitive to the country's overall growth prospects and the Federal Government's
financial health, as suggested below in Table 6:
Table 6: Fiscal Sensitivity Analysis
Nominal GDP Growth Assumptions          Fiscal Deficit/ Current
Revenues
2001        2002         2003            2001    2002    2003
(1) 3.3%    5%           5%               -3%      0%      2%
(2) 0%      -2%          1%               -4%    -3%    -3%
(3) No Assistance for Pension System*      5%    -4%       4%
*Under Govermnent's assumptions of revenue growth
67. The negative scenarios have been discussed with the provincial authorities, along
with the remedial measures that might be necessary to stay within the program. Given
that the base case already assumes fairly slow medium-term GDP growth, the negative
scenarios above would be considered temporary shocks. As a result, the expenditure
adjustments would be in more flexible areas of expenditure, including infrastructure
investments, rather than adjusting payrolls or eliminating recurrent expenditures in social
programs. This approach is also justified by the tradition of relatively prudent fiscal
policy on the part of the Province.
Modernizing Public Administration
68.  Sustaining the overall fiscal effort and increased efficiency in public spending, the
program would include further actions to modernize the public sector in areas such as
financial management, human resource management, public procurement, tax
administration, pension reform, and power distribution, as well as ongoing efforts to
support modernization at the municipal level. Since the early 1990s, the Province has
implemented a series of efforts to improve public administration, including a number of
projects financed by the Bank through the Provincial Development Projects. More
recently, its has signed an agreement with the Ministry of Interior and the Bank to
accelerate implementation of a number of sub-projects, including financial management,
tax administration and judicial reform that will support the Province in meeting its
obligations under the Compromiso Federal.
30



* Financial Management and Public Procurement. The Government is in the
process of securing legislative approval for a Law of Fiscal and Administrative
Responsibility. The law would put in place new systems for financial and human
resource management, as well as for public procurement. During preparation, the
Bank provided advice on improving these proposals and technical assistance for
implementing the new system would be financed through PDPII. The law is
expected to be approved during 2001, with the major components of the system
operational by 2002. Apart from improved public sector management, measures to
improve transparency through the regular publication of provincial accounts and
procurement on the web would be implemented.
* Human Resource Management. After almost a decade of consistent efforts to
maintain fiscal balance and improve public administration, Santa Fe does not suffer
from major problems in overstaffing in the public sector as seen in other provinces.
At 32 public employees per 1,000 inhabitants, it ranks third among provinces with the
lowest levels of public employment. In addition, personnel expenditures represent
less than 60 percent of total revenues. Greater efficiency in the public sector has been
supported by a number of schemes designed to provide incentives for performance in
areas such as tax administration and electricity distribution. Under the program,
human resource management systems in both education and health sectors would be
upgraded to support reforms in service delivery.
* Public Investment. With prospects for increased public investment, the Province is
moving to improve the transparency and efficiency in procuring public goods and
services, as noted above. Economic and environmental aspects of public investment
are also expected to be improved under the program, with all public works financed
by the Province costing over $7.5 million (about 70 percent of the total based on the
budget for 2001) requiring economic evaluation and environmental screening. This
would build on experience gained in environmental impact assessments already
required under Bank-financed projects in flood protection and roads. During the
program, the Bank would support institutionalizing EIA procedures and oversight
under the newly created Environmental Secretary (SMAyDS).
* Tax Administration. Modernization efforts are ongoing with support from the
PDPII to more fully integrate tax collections efforts and to upgrade technology. The
Bank had previously financed a major effort to improve the land cadaster and
property tax rolls. Since the mid-1990s, the Province has provided incentives to staff
to improve collections. In general, the Province ranks among the top provinces in
terms of real versus potential tax collection. 15   Along with the proposed
modernization effort, the Province would enhance its coordination with the national
tax authority through the SINTyS Project, which would support future efforts at
harmonization.
* Municipal Governments. Local governments include a few large cities (Rosario and
Santa Fe) as well as hundreds of comunas with less than 10,000 inhabitants. Santa Fe
5 Argentina: The Fiscal Dimension of the Convertibility Plan, January 22, 1998 (Report No. 16996-AR)
31



has developed a series of initiatives to help promote fiscal performance among the
municipalities, including incentives in revenue-sharing that award local tax collection
efforts, as well as funds to finance fiscal improvements. Overstaffing at the
municipal government level, common in Argentina, does not appear to be a major
problem (with 10 employees per 1,000 inhabitants it ranks below the average in
Argentina). Santa Fe has also participated in various municipal projects financed by
the Bank and the IDB, including current IDB operations with the city of Rosario in
public sector modernization and the physical and social integration of unregulated
settlements.
*  Electric Company Privatization The Province is in the process of concessioning its
electric distribution company, the largest such company still run by the public sector
in Argentina. Based on the previous successful experience in the country with such
concessions, the improvements in operating efficiency should be significant and
allow for reductions in tariffs. This is particularly the case for "captive" consumers,
both residential and small and medium size enterprises. In addition, the concession
will provide for explicit subsidies to the poor and isolated rural communities. For the
latter, the Province anticipates participating in a program financed under the Bank's
Renewable Energy Project (PERMER) and an associated GEF, which promotes the
use of renewable sources. The Province plans to use these proceeds to finance
investments to help reactivate the local economy and to provide a fiscal cushion.
Some fiscal issues with regards to this plan were discussed above (para 60).
D  Public Sector Pensions  Social security reform in Argentina was launched in the
early 1990s with the creation of a multi-pillar system to include a capitalized pillar.
With the new national system in place, provincial pension systems have been slowly
incorporated subject to the fiscal situation of the Federal Government, which has been
absorbing the transition costs. In the mid-1990s, the Bank financed Provincial
Pension Loan supported the transfer of eight provincial systems. In agreement with
the Federal government, Santa Fe is now negotiating harmonizing contributions and
benefits of its system with those of the national system (para 59).
Social Protection
69. Social Conditions and Vulnerable Groups: As with the rest of the country,
social conditions in Santa Fe have suffered as a result of the prolonged economic
downturn, with restricted employment opportunities and associated social problems; one-
quarter of the urban labor force is either unemployed or underemployed, with growing
problems in crime, drug addiction, and social unrest in the form of protests and road
blockages.16   Statistical data on rural areas (representing 15%  of the province's
population) are virtually non-existent, but anecdotal evidence points to newly emerging
vulnerabilities there as well: in one northern region, the decline of sugar cane production
has left a pocket of over 2,500 agricultural workers without employment. The current
economic situation has also exacerbated the plight of longer standing vulnerable groups,
including children and the elderly.
16 The IDB financed Rosario Habitat Program ($71.7 million) seeks to rehabilitate the unregulated
settlements in Greater Rosario that have sprung up and integrate them physically and socially.
32



70.  Current Reform Efforts: In the past year the Secretaria de Estado de Promocion
Comunitaria (SEPC) has introduced three main initiatives designed to improve its
response to vulnerable groups: (i) decentralization of service delivery: in Santa Fe and
Rosario (two urban areas which together comprise over 50% of the total population),
operations have been decentralized to 31 one-stop-shop centers located in the slums,
where clients can apply for and obtain any of the secretariat's programs and services; (ii)
new social assistance strategy: in order to respond to rising unemployment, SEPC has
developed a combined strategy of immediate assistance (delivered through a new
income-support program which requires volunteer work or training, PPASS) and longer-
term interventions designed to enhance productivity (delivered through micro-credit
services); (iii) better information services. under an initiative called Sistema de
Informacion Social (SIS), SEPC is constructing a unique registry of beneficiaries in order
to better target its programs, a registry of non-governmental organizations (NGO)
counterparts operating in the province, and improving internal tracking of its budget and
expenditures.
71. Nevertheless, the ability of SEPC to respond adequately is undermined by: (i) a
lack of basic statistics with which to obtain reliable and up-to-date estimates of poverty
and the size of at-risk groups who should be targeted for social assistance interventions
(they are using data from the 1991 Census on Basic Needs to distribute resources across
geographic regions, and they cannot calculate provincial poverty rates or other basic
indicators for lack of representative data); (ii) weaknesses in the design of key social
assistance programs, particularly micro-credit programs; (iii) low internal capacity - of
SEPC's 1,500 employees, forty have professional qualifications; (iv) a lack of a clearly
articulated social protection strategy at the federal level, as well as at the provincial level,
across ministries; and (v) a lack of an organized relationship with federal authorities, with
coherent "rules of the game" and reliable follow-through (two major federal programs
they are responsible for delivering, ASOMA and PRANI, consist of food boxes that do
not arrive predictably).
72. While recognizing the predominant role played by the Federal Government for
ensuring the social safety net ($56 per capita in federal spending versus $16 per capita at
the provincial level), the program seeks to improve the Province's capacity to respond to
the needs of prominent at-risk groups. It places emphasis on addressing the weaknesses
in provincial-level capacity identified in items (i) -fiii) above, with issues as the federal-
level more effectively addressed in on-going work and policy dialogue with national
authorities. Specific activities to be supported include:
*  Support for provincial social assistance programs.  Evaluations would be
undertaken to assess the main provincial social assistance programs and action plans
agreed to improve their effectiveness. During this period, the SEPC budget would be
protected.
*  Targeting and Monitoring. Rather than engaging in costly efforts to develop their
own data base to improve poverty monitoring, the Province has agreed to tap into
existing and more updated national household surveys and to use them to monitor
poverty at the provincial level.  These national surveys themselves are being
33



improved through the support of the IDB and the Bank, including plans to extend
coverage to rural areas. Similarly, in terms of improving coordination with national
efforts, the program would also support completion of the Province's registry for
assistance program beneficiaries (currently with 70,000 computerized entries) that
would later be used to cross-check with national data bases under the SINTyS Project.
*  Institutional Strengthening.  The Province also intends to pursue an overall
institutional strengthening of SEPC, which would focus internally on: (i) institutional
image and communication systems; (ii) internal organization and methods, budget
control, and management information systems; (iii) human resource management and
incentives; (iv) beneficiary and programs assessments and impact evaluation; and (v)
poverty  and risk-management issues.  It would also  support the ongoing
decentralization effort, involving municipalities and NGOs; improving coordination
with national and other provincial agencies and municipalities; and, mechanisms to
enhance the opportunities of the clients to voice their demands, and to increase the
level of accountability and transparency of the SEPC.
Health Reform
73.  Health indicators in Santa Fe are reasonable relative to other provinces of
Argentina. Access to health services is universal, life expectancy was 72.3 years in 1995,
the proportion of newborns with low birth weight was 6.6 percent in 1996, and infant
mortality steadily declined from around 26 per 1000 in 1984 to 16.3 per 1000 in 1997. In
addition, causes of mortality are lead by cardiovascular and tumors, mirroring the
experience of upper income countries.
74. However, infant mortality rates significantly vary across the province, with areas
registering in the 24-25 per 1000. Seven out of every 10 deaths of children under one
year of age are considered to be avoidable. In 1998, maternal mortality in the Province -
estimated at 43.5 per every 100,000 live births - was above the national average
(estimated at 38). Two years before, in 1996, studies had showed that 18 percent of all
newborns in the Province belonged to mothers under 20 years of age. The incidence and
prevalence of infectious diseases (such as tuberculosis, AIDS, and Mal de Chagas) are
much higher than those of other provinces at similar income levels, being more prevalent
among the poor and confirming the presence of a yet incomplete epidemiological
transition.
75.  Most of the issues faced by Santa Fe in its health sector are similar to those found
elsewhere in the country, notably, a highly segmented sector, with multiple, uncontrolled
cross-subsidies, important distributive inefficiencies driven by strong supply-side
incentives, poor public hospital performance, and weak regulatory capacity. Within this
overall scenario, some specific features should be highlighted.
76. The health sector accounted for 8 percent of the total provincial budget in 1999.
With this total expenditure level, annual per capita spending in the sector reached $84, an
average considered low when compared to other provinces in the nation (for example,
C6rdoba spends over $124). The Provincial Ministry of Health controls 75 percent of
this public spending, while municipalities manage the remaining 25 percent. Close to 80
34



percent of the sector's budget is dedicated to financing the provision of individual
services; in contrast, only roughly 7 percent is assigned to health promotion and disease
prevention programs. Of the total budget going to service provision, 95 percent is
captured by large hospitals (with in-patient services); merely 5 percent is allocated to
arnbulatory, primary care facilities. Labor costs explain close to 74 percent of all
expenditures in service provision.
77. The uninsured represent 34 percent of the total population in Santa Fe, slightly
below the national average of 38 percent. Those insured are distributed among national-
level insurers (29 percent of the population); the provincial health insurer carrier -
IAPOS - (17 percent of the population); and other private and public insurers, including
PAMI (16 percent of the population). IAPOS, the provincial insurer, covers 450,000
citizens, with a budget equivalent to $320/per capita annually.
78. In terms of health care provision, Santa Fe presents a high degree of diversity
among public, private, and insurer-related providers. Private providers, a growing sector,
account for close to 50 percent of all beds. Public hospitals include in their budget and
administrative sphere numerous peripheral health centers, although usually neglected and
poorly motivated. These larger public hospitals (all those with in-patient services)
received a significant degree of managerial and financial autonomy in 1990 (Ley
Provincial 10.608), which, inter alia, allows them to directly recover costs from third-
party payers.  Finally, close to 80 percent of all physicians in the Province are
specialized; this figure is closely associated with weaknesses in primary care services and
with an increasing pressure for high-cost technologies.
79.  The above issues are reflected in the Province's agreed program which includes the
following elements: (i) expanding and improving primary care, specially for uninsured
citizens, (ii) improving public hospital performance, (iii) strengthening the Ministry of
Health regulatory capacity, and (iv) maintaining the financial stability of IAPOS:
*  Expanding and Improving Primara Care: A recent social assessment done in the
Province concluded that strengthening and expanding primary care is the mostly
valued health sector strategy among its citizens. However, as stated above, only 7
percent of the public budget for the health sector is being dedicated to health
promotion and disease prevention. Meanwhile, complex public hospitals (which use
over 80 percent of the provincial health budget) are crowded with low-complexity
pathology. Aware of this situation, the Province is committed to improving and
expanding primary care. The Ministry will conduct a pilot experience that would
improve access to basic health services in one of the poorest areas in the northeastern
region. This experience would be disseminated throughout the other seven provincial
zones. In this pilot, a basic health "insurance-like" package would be given to poor
beneficiaries through a contracted network of primary care providers, reimbursed
through a prospective payment mechanism and closely monitored. The benefit
package would prioritize basic maternal and child care as well as other selected
highly cost-effective interventions, including reproductive health.
* Improving Public Hospital Performance: As was stated previously, the biggest share
of the public budget for the health sector is tied to the largest hospitals. Management
35



is weak, there are no incentives for improving performance, and a significant subsidy
to social security beneficiaries persists. For 1999, some estimates suggest that
roughly 40 percent of all ambulatory visits and 56 percent of all in-service admissions
were for insured patients, which has led to an increase in cost-recovery from third-
party payers in public hospitals. However, taking into account that the net costs being
recovered only average 5 percent of the total hospital budget, there is still a
significant resource leakage and considerable space for improvement in cost
recovery. To address this situation, the goal is greater autonomy and responsibility,
with improved efficiency and quality. The Ministry would sign performance
agreements with eight of the most important public hospitals in the province,
accounting for almost half of its budget. These agreements would include well-
defined goals to be achieved with respect to service production, cost recovery,
improved quality through better clinical management (including clinical records,
clinical audits, and satisfaction surveys), the implementation of incentive mechanisms
(partially financed through the enhanced cost recovery), and better articulation with
the primary care level. Key to the success of these efforts will be the improvement in
cost recovery, which will allow for economic incentives and for the reallocation of
resources for the expanded primary care services.
* Strengthening the Regulatory Capacity: One of the major concerns of the Provincial
Ministry of Health is being able to properly regulate supply-side variables that greatly
impact costs and quality of the health services. Hence, the program includes efforts
related to high-cost technology regulation, health professional certification
mechanisms, and improved data collection and analysis of health services
infrastructure and provision in the Province.
* Maintaining the Financial Stability of IAPOS: Contrary to what is happening with
most of the provincial run public health insurance services, obras provinciales, in
Argentina, IAPOS is currently at financial equilibrium and has incurred in no lags in
payments to providers. Therefore, the interest for the coming months will be placed
in maintaining such equilibrium and developing a solid financial monitoring system.
Simultaneously, IAPOS has expressed interest in accompanying the primary care
program and possible changes of its current contracting mechanisms.
Education Reform
80. Santa Fe, the second largest province in Argentina in terms of the number of
students, faces similar challenges as many other provinces - the need to improve efficacy
and efficiency while promoting equity in the context of a fiscally tight situation. An
educational reform program has been in place for some time, but much more needs to be
accomplished. The first phase of reforms (beginning in 1991) focussed on bringing order
to the educational sector, which had been afflicted by teacher strikes and absenteeism.
The period following the signing of the Federal Education Law in 1993 saw the
completion of transfers of school management to the provincial level, and a series of
investments to improve the coverage and quality of education, with programs such as the
Plan Social Educativo, PRODYMES, and PRISE. Investments were made in the
educational infrastructure, reforming educational curricula, providing didactic materials,
36



training teachers and scholarships, and regular standardized tests to measure student
learning  achievement.   As resources have  not been  sufficient for a complete
implementation of the Federal Education Law, Santa Fe has placed a priority on reaching
the poor, with a focus on schools in rural and marginalized urban areas.17
81.  Government Strategy. Santa Fe seeks to consolidate the gains of the previous
years in increasing coverage and improving quality of education, especially for the poorer
sections of society. In the coming years, the Province will continue to implement the
federal reforms at the higher secondary or Polimodal level'8, to cover the remaining gap
in the implementation of EGB3, to strengthen curricular reform by improving the skills
and knowledge of teachers, and to improve classroom processes and institutional capacity
at the school level. In order to meet these goals within a tight fiscal constraint, the
Province has begun the implementation of a series of measures to improve the use of
existing resources. The priority activities identified by the Province for the education
sector are as follows:
* implementation of the new Higher Secondary Education cycle (Polimodal)
*  increase coverage of Lower Secondary Education (EGB3)
*  improvement of the functioning of Teacher Training Institutes (IFD)
*  improve school level use of Student Achievement Evaluation
*  strengthening of decentralization to regions and schools
*  improve the efficiency of human resources in the education sector
*  rationalize the distribution of public subsidies to private schools.
82. Public Expenditures for Education. Consolidated provincial and federal spending
for education in Santa Fe amounted to approximately $914 million in 2000, or
approximately 26 percent of provincial public spending, a similar share for the past five
years. However, personnel expenditures account for 98 percent of the Province's own
spending on education and investments in improving the quality and coverage are
limited. The Province plans substantive improvements in the efficiency of personnel
expenditures by implementing a consolidated information system, with continuous
monitoring of variable personnel expenditures and the rigorous implementation of norms
to free up funds for reallocation to investments. In addition, there is also concerned with
the equity of public expenditures. While traditional equity-related programs such as the
" For instance, an innovative federally sponsored program using 'docentes itinerantes' has allowed an
EGB3 cycle (Grades 7 through 9) to be established in 830 rural schools. This program allows students in
schools which offered only 6 grades to complete the federally mandated basic education of Grades I
through 9 without having to transfer to a distant larger school. Enrollment growth in this program has been
robust since its inception.
Is Polimodal consists of three years of education (ages 15 to 17 or grades 10 through 12). Five modalities
are offered: Humanities-Social Sciences, Administration and Management, Art, Industry and Agriculture,
Environment and Health.
37



provision of school meals and scholarships to poor students will continue, measures are
needed to reduce the 'quality gap' between schools attended by children from poor
families and those from rich families.'9 With a spending of nearly $160 million (or
nearly 20 percent of the provincial education budget) on subsidies to private schools, an
equitable distribution of subsidies is also an important equity concern. The proposed
actions to improve efficiency and equity in the use of resources include:
*  Improvement in the Management of Human Resources.  Three major efforts are
planned to increase the efficiency in the use of human resources:  (a) the
implementation of a computerized system of human resources (Sistema de
Administraci6n de Recursos Humanos- SARH) based on a single teacher file (Legajo
Unico) which will ensure the timely availability of relevant information for improved
management; (b) the development of an optimal allocation of human resources, called
the Plantas Orgdnicos Funcionales (POF), and the adjustment of the POF with the
actual allocation of human resources, called the Plantas Orgdnicos Nominales (PON).
This optimization of resources will be made possible by the integration of the SARH
system with a computerized system of school management and administration
(Sistema de Gesti6n y Administraci6n Escolar - SIGAE); (c) a re-examination of the
existing legal and administrative norms to permit the mobility of resources needed to
achieve an optimal allocation. In the case of secondary education, there has already
been an evaluation which led to a new decree that allows teachers to be reallocated
according to the demand from schools.
*  Improvement in Pedagogical Practices and Management at the School Level. The
Federal Ministry of Education has established a series of national achievement tests
for different grade levels, called the Operativos Nacionales de Evaluaci6n de Calidad
(ONE). The tests and the administering process are of high quality, and the Federal
Ministry disseminates test results as well as the analysis of those results. It also
distributes guides for teachers and school principles for improving teaching practices
based on the weaknesses in student achievement revealed by the test scores. While
potentially a valuable tool, the utilization of the test scores at the provincial level and
the schools themselves is undermined by a lack of local ownership and institutional
processes. In order to improve the quality of teaching and learning, a strategic plan
would be adopted to ensure the utilization of the results of the ONE, and the related
data on educational statistics collected from schools (Relevamiento Anuales) by the
provinces with the support of the RED Federal de Informaci6n Educativa (REDFIE).
*  Strengthening Teacher Training Institutes. There are 195 institutes in Santa Fe at the
level of non-university tertiary education, including 30 public sector teacher training
institutes (Institutos de Formacion Docente - IFD) and 44 private sector IFDs. The
Province plans to overhaul and streamline the delivery of services from the IFDs as
well as from the other tertiary level institutes (Institutos Superiores de Educaci6n
Tjcnica-ISETs). The total enrollment is approximately 48,000 students, with public
19 The 'quality gap' is an important manifestation of the equity problem in Santa Fe, as in other Argentine
provinces - even though the mean performance of Santa Fe on the annual student achievement tests are
high as compared to the national average, there is a great variation between schools, and poorly performing
schools are typically schools with a larger percentage of students from poor families.
38



spending at about $50 million (6 percent of the provincial education budget). The
Province seeks to channel the resources for the IFDs into three main functions -
initial teacher training, in-service teacher training, and educational research. As the
content and number of courses which are offered by the institutes have evolved
historically, the current offering has little systematic relation with the demand for
trained teachers, and the capacity of the IFDs to conduct educational research is low.
The Province will consolidate the services offered by the IFDs, based on the norms
approved by the national level Consejo Federal de Educaci6n. The objective is to
have a balance between the supply and demand of training and research services,
which would include the IFDs and the ISETs in the public sector as well as the
private sector through a system of accreditation.
* Improving the Distribution of Subsidies to Private Schools. Approximately $160
million is spent each year in subsidies to private schools. In principle, the subsidies
are designated for schools which have students from families who cannot provide the
full cost of private school tuition, and the subsidies are designated only for the
payment of teacher salaries. In practice, the allocation of subsidies has evolved
historically, and there has been no systematic follow-up to ensure equity objectives
are being met. The Province would move towards a system whereby there is control
and monitoring of the distribution of subsidies based on objective criteria. The
following measures have been adopted: (i) an externally conducted audit of the
private schools which receive the subsidy to check for discrepancies between the
established norms and the actual condition of the schools; (ii) analysis of existing
information about the subsidies received by schools and the existing data about those
schools using educational statistics and data on student achievement; (iii) analysis of
the administrative and management mechanisms currently in place to monitor the use
of the subsidies; and (iv) the development of new objective norms for the distribution
of subsidies, depending upon the outcome of the analysis.
Private Sector Development
83. With the Convertibility Plan and the opening of Argentina's economy in the early
1990s, Santa Fe's industrial and agricultural base was forced to become more
competitive, through investments in new technology and cost cutting measures. The
result is a fairly well diversified body of agricultural and industrial production and
internationally competitive cost structures for certain sectors such as dairy and livestock.
The Province's industrial center is the city of Rosario in the south, where approximately
45 percent of industry is concentrated. The north is mainly used for raising cattle, as it
suffers from structural flooding, and is less populated and industrialized than the south.
Despite these achievements, the private sector in Santa Fe suffers from largely the same
limitations found throughout Argentina, including limited access to financing, inadequate
infrastructure, distortionary taxes, and a cumbersome public sector. (See Annex F)
84. These weaknesses have been exacerbated by the downturn in the economy
beginning in late 1998, including the impact of the Brazilian devaluation, and a fall in
agriculture commodity prices.  Although Santa Fe's local consumption, industrial
production, production of beef, and exports of grains and oils outperformed the national
averages through the first half of 2000, the local economy remains stagnant. The more
39



recent outbreak of foot and mouth disease in Argentina could have an adverse impact on
livestock production (Santa Fe has the third largest cattle herd in the country).
85. While many of the constraints facing the private sector in Santa Fe are national in
origin and would require concerted efforts on the part of the Federal Government along
with the provincial governments, there are areas that might benefit from local actions.
*  Financing. A recently approved IFC operation of $30 million with the privatized
Banco de Santa Fe is focused on enhancing credit access for SMEs, but the public
sector could also take measures further measures. For example, although the law to
privatize EPESF allows the receipts to be used to subsidize interest rates on credit for
local companies, this may not be the most efficient and sustainable use of the funds.
Wlhile it would improve the situation of enterprises that already have access to credit,
it will do nothing for those companies lacking in credit. Reductions in certain taxes
and levies, such as the provincial payroll tax and the provincial levy of on mortgages
used as collateral for loans, would be more efficient uses of funds by lowering the
costs of labor and capital for all enterprises. Support for the use of other financial
instruments might also be beneficial. Since much of Santa Fe's industrial and
agricultural production is concentrated in commodities, the use of financial
instruments to mitigate the effects of major swings in commodity prices, such as
hedging, might be promoted. However, this would only ensure against short-term
price volatility and would not address the decline in terms of trade that Santa Fe's
commodities have been facing.
*  Local Taxes.  The distortionary affects of provincial taxes for turnover (a
disincentive for production linkages between firms) and the stamp tax for transactions
(inhibiting land markets and promoting informal transactions) are well known in
Argentina. Efforts were made in the early 1990s by the Federal Government to
promote changes in local taxation.  The Pacto Fiscal of 1993 called for the
abolishment of both these particular taxes. In return for guaranteed floors in federal
transfers many provinces, including Santa Fe, were induced to lower turnover tax
rates, particularly for primary production. The next step, the creation of local sales or
VAT taxes to piggyback the national VAT, has yet to be introduced. While further
reductions in these taxes are recommended, this should only be undertaken cautiously
in light of the fiscal situation. The current strategy of attempting to target tax breaks
for certain industries should be reviewed and perhaps a more general reduction
pursued to avoid problems in targeting and administrative costs. The Government of
Santa Fe plans to implement several measures to decrease economic distortions in the
local tax system. Under the program, the Province would eliminate the provincial
payroll tax for the industrial sector and the stamp tax on transactions that involve the
registration, expansion or creation of new companies. In addition, it would eliminate
the first quarter payment of the gross receipt tax (turnover) and the provincial payroll
tax for new small and medium enterprises.
*  Infrastructure. Improving coordination of provincial infrastructure would enable
the industrial and agricultural sectors to transport products more efficiently.
Currently, the only point in the province where cargo can be transferred from truck to
40



railway is at the port. Existing railways, roads and ports could be further integrated to
reduce costs and save time for transportation of products.20 In terms of financing
such ventures, half of the funds received from the privatization of the provincial
electricity company are destined to a provincial infrastructure fund. In addition,
existing assets could be better maintained. The Province is committed to gradually
build up maintenance spending on the road network from $10 million to $40 million
within a 5-year period (for periodic and routine maintenance prioritized using modem
tools now at the disposal of the Province). This could result high annual benefits in
the order of nearly $400 million in reduced vehicle operating costs.
* Administrative Burden. To help reduce administrative burdens, the Province has
indicated that it will review requirements for registering firms with the idea of
streamlining procedures. While a weak judiciary clearly suffers from deeper-rooted
issues throughout the country that need time to be overcome, the Province intends to
promote transparceny and timeliness of the provision of judicial services through a
modernization program with financing from PDPII.
* Provincial Programs: The Ministry of Production (MAGIC) is involved in a wide
range of promotional activities that have increased over the years. While most appear
to be targeted at important sectors for the Province, a rigorous review of their
effectiveness would benefit MAGIC by ensuring that its limited resources are well
allocated. It might also review the possibility of increasing its focus on poverty
alleviation in collaboration with the Secretary for Community Promotion (SEPC).
III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Loan Objective and Rationale
86. The objective of the loan is to help the Province of Santa Fe to reform and
restructure its government so as to ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public
services, particularly to the poor, within fiscally sound policies. Santa Fe was selected to
participate in the program because of the opportunity for significant reforms to support
poverty alleviation and equity improvements, its positive track record in reform efforts
since the early 1990s, and the strong demonstration effect it would have on other
provinces, as well as the direct effect of improvements in social welfare in the country's
second largest province (with 10 percent of the population). Recent data on the incidence
of poverty is not available for Santa Fe21 While it is not traditionally considered to be
among the poorer provinces, with a per capita income of around $6,400 (about 85% of
the national average), the upswing in unemployment rates in the two largest cities, which
puts them at or above unemployment rates found in the major urban areas of the poorer
provinces, suggests a shaxply deteriorating situation. This is corroborated by signs of
20 IDB financing ($350 million) is being provided to a private concession to improve linkages to other
provinces and MERCOSUR countries with the construction of a bridge between Rosario and Victoria in the
Province of Entre Rios.
21 Poverty monitoring would be strengthened under the proposed program, as would improved targeting of
social assistance.
41



growing social unrest.  Moreover, the profile of the unemployed suggests serious
problems for reemployment, even with improvements in the economy (para 52).
87.  The fiscal justification for sub-national reform lending, as discussed in the Board
Paper (R96-55) and approved on April 16, 1996, rests on the link between fiscal deficits
and pressures on the current account of the balance of payments. In Argentina, this link
is more critical than in other countries due to the strict rules of the currency board type
arrangement of the Convertibility Law. Persistent fiscal deficits with resulting pressures
on the current account of the balance of payments can place immediate pressures on the
money supply and the financial system. These pressures can reduce the credibility of the
country's long run ability to maintain the Convertibility Plan as evidence by the current
crisis in Argentina. Thus, both the financing and the fiscal strengthening measures of the
proposed operation are critical to helping support National government efforts to regain
confidence. At the level of the reforming Province, there is a need to finance the cost of
fiscal reform. The reform will have a short-run impact on the level of expenditures
(public employee reductions, complementary social investments, and investments in
institutional capacity building) calling for additional resources to ease the transition.
88. The proposed operation supports fiscal reform as well as structural reform in the
social sectors, following on the design of the Second Provincial Reform Loans, approved
in 1997, and the more recent Catamarca and Cordoba Provincial Reform Loans.
Provinces play a large role in the Argentine public sector, responsible for 40 percent of
public expenditures, and in recent years, one-third of the consolidated public deficit.
Reducing the deficit at the provincial level is particularly complicated due to the their
primary responsibility for the social sectors--education and health--which are critical to
the country's long term economic growth and poverty reduction. A few provinces have
managed to keep their fiscal accounts in reasonable balance; however, social services are
provided poorly and inefficiently in almost all provinces, when compared to countries of
similar level of income per capita. The PRLs focus on promoting improved social sector
delivery systems within the context of general fiscal balance.
89.  The proposed loan is consistent with the FY01-04 CAS discussed by the Board on
June 27, 2000 and the goals of the proposed Santa Fe Provincial Reform Loan are firmly
grounded in the agreed development strategy to strengthen social protection, advance
human development and consolidate structural reforms at a level of government
responsible for almost half of public spending and more than 80 percent of spending in
health and education. More specifically, the Loan in supporting the country's second
largest province would directly support achieving the medium and long-term national
development targets of the CAS, presented below (Table 7), as follows: provincial fiscal
discipline would contribute to the overall strategy to lower country risk; and local efforts
to promote private sector development would also contribute to economic growth targets
and measures to reduce labor costs and power tariffs, particularly for small and medium-
size firms, would support reductions in unemployment and poverty. Over the longer
term, poverty and equity targets would be supported by measures to improve human
resource development directed at enhancing secondary education and health care for
mothers and their children.
42



Table 7: Monitoring the Progress of the Argentine CAS
(1) Economic and Financial Variables        Initial Values          Predicted/Target
Values
(a) GDP growth                           -3.5 percent (1999)      Average 4.5 percent
(b) Credit Ratings                        BB for S&P              hivestment grade for
Govemment
paper
(II) Social Indicators
(a) Unemployment Rate                     13.9 percent (Oct 1999)  < 10 percent
(b) Poverty Rate                          29 percent (urban 1998)  <22 percent
(c) Gini Coefficient                      0.49 (1998)             0.46
(d) Secondary Education Graduation Rate   52% (1998)              70%
(e) Infant Mortality Rate                18.8 per 1,000 (1998)   12 per 1,000
(f) Access to safe water                 72 percent (1991)       87 percent
90. Finally, the proposed Santa Fe Reform Loan is also closely linked to the proposed
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan (PSAL) (see para. 29), the center piece of the
World Bank's participation in the international financial package endorsed in late 2000.
The proposed loan for Santa Fe would benefit from the reform effort at the federal level,
as well as act as a leading case for implementing similar and complementary reforms at
the provincial level. For example, under the PSAL's component for reforming federal-
provincial fiscal relations, Santa Fe would be a leading case in for fiscal sustainability
and increased stability in social expenditures, improvements in the equity of public
spending, increasing the efficiency of provincial taxation, improving accountability and
public access to information, and eliminating contingent liabilities. To complement the
health reform component of the proposed PSAL, the Province would maintain the
financial viability of the provincial obra social and strengthen equity in health insurance
by incorporating the uninsured poor. Consistent with the social protection component of
the PSAL, Santa Fe's harmonization of the provincial pension fund with the semi-
privatized national system would further the effort provide a flexible social security
system with extended coverage to the poor and its development of a beneficiary registry
would enable consolidation with national data basis to sharpen targeting and reduce waste
and fraud. Mirroring the state modernization component of the PSAL, tax administration
improvements by the Province would facilitate links to national tax collection helping
both systems to increase their efficiency and reduce fraud. Finally, Santa Fe would also
benefit from a revamped Federal Ministry of Education focused on providing assistance
to the provinces.
Lessons Learned from Previous Operations
91. The Bank has extensive experience in the reform of the public sector through a
series of structural and sector reform loans and with sub-national development projects in
Argentina. Two of the first provincial reform operations approved in 1997 done with
specific provinces-loans for Salta and Tucuman-have been rated as satisfactory while
the other two-loans for San Juan and Rio Negro-have not. Key lessons (as discussed
in more detail in para. 50) from the first four such loans may be summarized as follows.
First, these operations must focus on significant reforms that are hard to reverse -- such as
43



reforms passed via legislation -- and that can be fully implemented during the mandate of
an elected administration. Second, program design and implementation arrangements
must be flexible enough to achieve targeted reform objectives. Finally, to ensure
commitment in implementation, there should be strong ownership of the program.
92.  The proposed loan has been designed taking into account these lessons into account
as follows:
* Potenfial conflict between fiscal tightening and social sector reforms. Santa Fe
has sustained a good fiscal performance for much of the past decade and additional
measures to cut spending were already undertaken in late 1999, no further major are
cuts are likely, particularly to social services, even under extreme scenarios;
* Timing. The Province has already initiated its reform effort and should have more
than two years window prior to the next presidential and gubernatorial elections to
met conditions of the two remaining tranches;
* Ownership. The Governor's reform program enjoys strong support from the local
legislature and required legislation has already been approved, including adherence to
the Compromiso Federal, which sets the fiscal parameters for the coming years.
Legislative actions have already been undertaken to provide the necessary legal
framework envisaged by the program. In the social sectors, a lengthy and intensive
effort at preparation was undertaken with local actors.
* Institution Building and Participation. An institutional capacity assessment was
undertaken during preparation (para 94) to identify possible constraints and a
consultative process was employed in helping to define and design the reform
program (para 1 10).
93. More generally, Argentina's record in satisfying the conditions of reform loans has
been excellent since the implementation of the Convertibility Plan in 1991. The Bank
has extended $6.6 billion in 15 such operations since 1991 (not including a freestanding
FY93 Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan, Ln. 3556-AR), as well as $74.5 million in
four complementary technical assistance projects. These operations, mainly addressing
reforms at the federal level, have met all major objectives in a timely manner. This also
applies to the earlier adjustment operations with the provinces: the Provincial Reform
Loan I, Provincial Bank Privatization Loan, and Provincial Pension Reform Loan have
all been rated as satisfactory or above by OED.  In addition, several completed
investment loans executed by the provinces-such as the Municipal Development I,
Provincial Development I and II, Water Supply II, and the Flood Rehabilitation
Project-have all been rated as satisfactory.
Institutional Capacity and Technical Assistance
94. An institutional capacity analysis was performed to identify the needs for
institutional strengthening to implement the agreed program and possible technical
assistance support. The proposed reforn program is largely within the existing capacity
of the Province, which is being strengthened by its participation in various Bank and IDB
44



operations. Additional strengthening and technical assistance needs are detailed in
Annex H. Staff from the Ministries of Economy, Education, and Health reviewed
preparation and program design, ensuring that the proposed policies were consistent with
national policies and facilitating future coordination. There are considerable synergies
between the reform program and a number of ongoing investment projects in which the
Province is participating.  In education, proposals are in line with the reforms
implemented by the Federal Government. The technical assistance necessary to support
various actions would be financed by the institutional strengthening component of the
IDB-financed PRISE program. The First Secondary Education Project (PRODYMES 1)
has also provided technical support to the Province to improve the management of the
education sector and Santa Fe is a good candidate to participate in follow-up operations
by the two banks in primary and secondary education.  In health, the program
complements ongoing Bank loans, namely PROMIN (maternal and child health care) and
PRESSS (health insurance for the uninsured). Moreover, while the recently completed
Health Insurance Reform Loan addressed efficiency and equity issues pertaining to
national social funds, the program deals with similar issues confronting the Obra
Provincial, helping Santa Fe develop a public health insurance fund (within current
budgetary constraints and with possible support from PRESSS) to finance coverage of the
currently uninsured (mostly the poor). Thus, the proposed program integrates various
elements of Bank-supported initiatives to modernize Argentina's health sector, improve
its efficiency, and protect the poor. For public investment, the Provincial Roads Project
is developing the institutional reforms, including requirements for environmental impact
assessments, within the Provincial Roads Directorate to enhance the effectiveness and
sustainability of proposed increases in road maintenance. Provisions for servicing
dispersed areas included in the electricity distribution concession would enable the
Renewable Energy Project to support environmentally friendly solutions for bringing
power to isolated rural communities.
Coordination with Multilateral Institutions
95. The Bank has consistently worked closely with the IMF in the design and
supervision of reform operations in Argentina, in formulating country strategy, and in
specific economic and sector work. In particular, the IMF shares our concern regarding
the need to help improve the provincial fiscal situation. Bank staff has coordinated with
the IMF to make sure the compatibility of this loan with the current and future Fund
programs. Similarly, there have been a number of exchanges on tax reform and the
measures being introduced to improve federal-provincial fiscal relations. The IDB has
collaborated closely with the Bank on provincial reform and co-financed the completed
First Provincial Development Project and Provincial Bank Privatization Loan. It has
been less successful with its own program of direct reform operations with the provinces
initiated in 1997, with loans to the Province of Mendoza and the City of Buenos
cancelled before signing and a loan to the Province of Buenos Aires, where the original
fiscal targets were not met. More recently it has provided a complementary investment
and technical assistance operation for the Province of Cordoba ($215 million) in
association with the Bank-financed Cordoba Provincial Reform Loan. While a similar
IDB operation for Santa Fe is not anticipated, as noted, the IDB is providing support for
improving unregulated settlements in Rosario and for the Rosario-Victoria bridge.
45



Loan Description
96. The proposed loan would support the Province of Santa Fe in implementing a
public sector reform program with a series of fiscal, administrative and social measures.
The Federal Government would onlend to the Province the counterpart funds equivalent
to the loan amount of $330 million. The loan would be disbursed to the Federal
Government, with immediate transfer of the local counterpart funds to the Province.
97. Borrower and Loan Amount. The Borrower of the loan would be the Argentine
Republic. The beneficiary will be the Province of Santa Fe. The amount, US$330
million including front-end fee, was determined as a function of financing needs and
depth of the reform program, taking into account the population of the Province.22
Disbursements for the loan would be conditioned on Board approval and effectiveness,
and subsequent positive evaluations of the compliance of the Province to loan
conditionality. The attached Policy Matrix (Annex B) contains the performance criteria
agreed during appraisal on how to evaluate compliance with the conditionality. While
the tranche-release actions will be limited to key measures, the full program of the
Province is detailed in the Letter of Provincial Reform (Annex A).
98. Tranche Disbursement. The loan would disburse in three tranches. The first
tranche disbursement of US$153.3 million would be released after loan effectiveness
since actions required for disbursement will have been implemented prior to Board
presentation. A second tranche disbursement of US$50 million would be released at least
six months later, but by about the 4" quarter of FY02. A third tranche of US$126.7
million, at least six months after the second tranche, is expected to be released at the 3rd
quarter of FY03, depending on the pace of reform. The design of the tranching reflects
the major effort already undertaken to put the legal framework in place and the initiation
of reform actions.
99.  Letter of Provincial Reform. As noted above, the Province's comprehensive
program of reforms and development strategies has been set out in the Letter of
Provincial Reform from the Governor of the Province. (See Annex A.)
100. Conditions of Tranche Release. Successful implementation will be assessed by
reference to performance benchmarks as agreed in the Policy Matrix. (See Annex B.)
101. Program  Implementation.  Staff reporting directly to the Governor will
coordinate implementation of the program. The Project Director in Santa Fe, will be
responsible the continuous monitoring of progress in the reform program, the evaluation
of compliance with performance benchmarks prior to tranche disbursements, and
quarterly monitoring reports. Implementation itself would be undertaken by the various
Provincial ministries and agencies involved. At the national level, the Ministry of
Economy will undertake regular supervision of the public finance component; the inputs
will be part of the quarterly monitoring. The Ministry of Interior will provide
coordination with the PDP II.
22 In comparison, the Cordoba Provincial Reform Loan was for $300 million, not including an associated
IDB investment operation of $215 million.
46



102. Disbursement, Procurement and Auditing. Loan disbursements would be made
under simplified SAL disbursement procedures under which proceeds will be disbursed
against satisfactory implementation of the program, including compliance with stipulated
tranche release conditions. Disbursements will not be linked to any specific purchases;
hence evidence will not be needed to support disbursements. However, there will be a
standard reform loan prohibition on using proceeds to cover expenditures incurred in the
borrower's currency; hence loan proceeds can be kept as country foreign reserves or be
used for imports (other than for standard excluded expenditures). Tranche release review
and program supervision will ensure that programs supported by the loans is carried out
as agreed.
103. Once the loan becomes effective, the Borrower will open and maintain a
corresponding deposit account in dollars in the Central Bank. Once the Bank is satisfied
that the Province has fulfilled the conditions for tranche release, it will inform the
National Ministry of Economy. As funds for the tranche are released, the Borrower
(Ministry of Economy) will submit a simplified withdrawal application against which the
Bank will disburse the corresponding loan proceeds into the Deposit account for the
Borrower's use. As soon as the funds are deposited into the Borrower's account there will
be automatic transfer by the Borrower to the Province of local counterpart funds in
amounts equivalent to the disbursed loan proceeds.
104. Prior to the tranche release, and after the Bank has reviewed compliance of the
Province, the Borrower will submit to the Bank a report on the Provincial compliance
with the release conditions. Bank staff will confirm all Provincial conditionality
compliance actions before tranche release. The Province will also submit to the Bank,
every three months, a brief report on the implementation of the program, updated fiscal
accounts, and revised projections for the remaining of the period. Independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank may audit the Deposit Account, if the Bank so requests. Copies of
these audits will be submitted to the Bank no later than four months after the date of the
Bank's request for such audits. A financial management assessment of the Province
found that it was in condition to manage and account adequately for loan proceed based
on its financial management system and previous experience with Bank operations.
Environmental Concerns
105. As required under Bank guidelines, Santa Fe's environmental policies and practices
were reviewed, highlighting linkages between the adjustment program and the
environment, and showing how the program is design to take these linkages into account.
The proposed operation is not expected to have negative environmental impacts. The
only change in the patterns and levels of public spending with potential negative effects
conditioned by the program would be an increase in spending for routine road
maintenance. Over the long term, however, such a shift in spending should be beneficial
to the environment by reducing pressures for new road construction or the need for major
rehabilitation. Routine road maintenance, itself, would be subject to the environmental
safeguards promoted under the Bank-financed Provincial Roads Project. At the same
time, several initiatives under program should also enhance environmental protection and
natural resource management, both locally and globally.
47



106. As a major agricultural producer, Santa Fe has long been concerned with
environmental issues, particularly related to natural resource management, where
incentives are provided to promote sustainable technology (see Annex F). The legal
framework for pollution control and environmental protection has been built up through
the 1 990s, culminating in the creation of the Provincial Secretary for the Environment
and Sustainable Development (SMAyDS) last year. In particular relation to the program,
SMAyDS would serve to institutionalize oversight of environmental impact assessments
(EIA) of public works, building on experience garnered by the province in implementing
sub-projects under a series of Bank-financed operations (Provincial Roads, Flood
Rehabilitation and Flood Protection, and Provincial Agricultural Development
(PROSAP)). Environmental aspects of public investment are also expected to be
improved under the program, with all public works financed by the Province costing over
$7.5 million requiring economic evaluation and environmental impact studies (about 70
percent of all works).  During program  supervision, the Bank would support
institutionalizing SMAyDS oversight responsibilities and provide advice on establishing
an appropriate EIA mechanism for screening and monitoring.
107. As regards electricity distribution, the private concessionaire would be subject to a
well developed body of environmental regulations established over the years by the
National Secretary of Energy and the National Energy Regulatory Agency, as detailed in
the Provincial Law authorized the privatization.  Contract performance would be
monitored by the new provincial regulatory agency (ERCE), with support from SAlyDS
on environmental issues. In conjunction with the privatization, an environmental review
was conducted to identify and rectify potential liabilities prior to launching the public
offering and PCB contamination was identified in several installations. Cleanup is being
undertaken by an international specialized private firm within national regulations and
international standards of disposal and would be completed prior to the transfer of the
concession. In conjunction with the proposed privatization, the Province is expected to
participate in a program financed under the Bank's Renewable Energy Project
(PERMER) and an associated GEF which promotes the use of renewable sources.
Gender Analysis
108. A specific gender assessment was undertaken to identify possible gender issues that
could be addressed by the reform program, including those that could lead to negative
impacts. The assessment found that Santa Fe displays similar gender challenges to the
rest of the country, where traditional and new gender issues co-exist. In education, a
gender gap in school performance has been identified as against boys. In health, gender
roles and relations influence the exposure to risks and access to services for both men and
women. In general, changes in the economy have challenged traditional gender roles at
the family level. For example, female spouses who have entered the paid labor force
generally retain their traditional family roles as care-givers, jeopardizing their capacity to
provide adequate care to their children or alternatively to develop labor skills and
positions. For men, increased unemployment rates have hampered their traditional role
of being the family provider and undermined mechanisms (e.g. identity and belonging)
that men count on to interact with their families and society. Anecdotal evidence
suggests that these problems might explain the increase in family disintegration observed
48



in the Province. These are some of the issues which would be addressed on a pilot basis
nation-wide under the proposed Family Capacity Building LIL (PROFAAM).
109. Specifically in the case of Santa Fe, the gender assessment concluded that the PRL
provides an opportunity to address some of these gender issues by integrating gender-
targeted interventions. Gender plans are being elaborated by the Government to integrate
a gender approach into the reform effort. For example, in the education sector, concrete
actions will be carried out to address the gender differences found in student
performance. In health, institutional arrangements will be developed to guarantee that
both men's and women's main health needs are being adequately addressed through
better access to and quality in service delivery, particularly those related with
reproductive health and accidents. In the case of social protection, a gender approach
would be integrated into efforts at assisting at-risk groups, including programs to provide
equal access and benefits for female and male heads of household.
Social Consultation
i iO. A social assessment was undertaken to measure the concerns of the population in
the delivery of social services by the public sector and to engage participants in-depth on
their reactions to possible solutions. A representative survey of the province was made
based on income level, gender, age and occupational situation. To understand better the
results, in-depth interviews were carried out with 100 of the participants. Finally,
interactive sessions were carried out with three focus groups. The draft report was
discussed by the technical teams in each sector as to the issues identified and possible
solutions to the concerns raised to help ensure the design of reforms that would meet the
development objectives and reduce implementation risks, as discussed below:
Health
* There is a high level of satisfaction with the current system, but the need for further
investment is seen as a priority. An important segment supports cost recovery in
public hospitals. A pilot approach focusing on a selected number of hospitals would
help to demonstrate the benefits ofproposed changes.
* Negative reaction to the idea of providing health insurance to the poor. Again, this
counsels for a pilot approach, including a promotional campaign should be pursued
to gradually show the benefits of this approach in terms of access. A phased
approach is also justified by potentialfiscal costs.
*  The program to improve access to primary attention, particularly among the poor, has
been received favorably. This is a favorable sign, as the burdening of public
hospitals with primary attention could undermine reform efforts.
Education
* Passive resistance to the effort to extending compulsory education. The poor are not
convinced of the benefits of more schooling.  The lack of local ownership,
particularly among school staff, is a serious risk that will require efforts to garner
49



support for the reforms. The lack of support by the poor indicates that the intended
beneficiaries are not convinced of the value of education. Targeting of the program
to poorer areas is likely to require, along with school improvements, continuing
scholarship programs for students from poor families.
*  Little understanding of the introduction of the new national system of polimodal
(three additional years at the upper secondary level associated with labor market
specialization). Greater publicity efforts are in order, along with collaboration with
the private sector to enhance the benefits of the approach.
*  An understanding that lax administration of teacher leave policy contributes to poorer
quality education, apart from raising costs. While general sympathy among the
populace for improved administration would reduce implementation risks, teachers
themselves need to be convinced of the benefits of improved controls.
*  Resistance to student assessment among teachers.  Although national testing
instrumentals of student attainment are of high quality, there is little ownership of
them at the local level; developing and local tests would be costly. A more formal
mechanisms to use national test results needs to be developed, with input from local
teachers, and participation by parents and students at the school level.
Social Protection
*  Little understanding of existing programs. Publicity programs, including diffusion
through NGOs and churches.
*  Some fear of clientelism and abuses. Greater delivery role for churches and NGOs.
Social independent audits with publicized results.
*  Social programs seen as handouts. Promotional and self-help programs should be
given greater prominence.
Social Impact Analysis
111. Looking more specifically at some of the reforms, an analysis was made of the
social impact of proposed measures. Potential negative social impacts were identified
with the privatization of EPESF, the power company, and the pension reform (Annex G).
In both cases, while expected benefits would greatly outweigh potential negative impact,
mitigory measures would be pursued to reduce the impact and implementation risks. A
staff reduction plan for EPESF is underway using voluntary and anticipated (those within
seven years) retirement mechanisms. Of those workers actually transferred to the
concessionaire, further reductions of about 500 workers are anticipated, as the company
becomes more efficient. These workers would have the option of either taking severance
or returning to the public sector with reinsertion training programs, albeit at reduced
compensation (EPESF workers currently enjoy much higher wages and benefits that
other public sector employees). As regards the reform of the pension system, it would
not only benefit the provincial fiscal accounts and allow for greater equity in public
sector spending, it would also strengthen national efforts to enhance the equity of the
50



social security system by increasing coverage and ensuring benefits for the poor currently
outside the formal system, including those in Santa Fe, and contributing to the creation of
greater mobility in labor markets and equity between the private and public sectors. In
any event, in order to mitigate social impacts among provincial employees, the
harmonization process to be negotiated would be phased in gradually, and those currently
receiving benefits would likely be grandfathered. The Province intends to undertake a
social impact analysis of proposed changes.
112. Beyond identifying possible negative social impacts, a more comprehensive social
analysis was undertaken to guide program design and to offer recommendations for a
social development strategy to deal with the challenges facing Santa Fe and its social
situation characterized by a more heterogeneous private sector facing difficulties to cope
with macroeconomic changes, growing unemployment, increasing vulnerability of some
groups and social unrest. Recommendations (detailed in Annex G) focus on economic
recovery and promoting equity and have largely been taken into account in the design of
the program within the given fiscal constraints and jurisdictional responsibilities.
Benefits and Risks
113. Benefits. The main benefits of the loan would be a strengthened and more
sustainable fiscal position, improvements in key social sector services and reducing the
constraints on private sector development. Together these reforms are expected to
generate a better investment climate for the Province while improving the quality and
equity of key social services. In the case of education, this should lead to better
investment in human capital with the long run attendant impacts on employment and
poverty reduction. In particular, lower income groups are expected to benefit through the
reorientation of public spending to support poverty alleviation and equity improvements
over the long term and to strengthen the social safety net during the current economic
downtum. Actions to strengthen the social safety net include: support for a new income
support program for over 16,000 poor families, most with female heads of households,
while promoting efforts to enhance its effectiveness; ensuring that poor pregnant women
receive pre-natal care; and improving primary care for children of poor families. Poverty
alleviation and equity improvements over the medium to long term would include actions
to support human resource development, including providing basic health coverage to the
non-insured poor, redirecting public spending towards schools in poorer neighborhoods;
and measures to enhance sustainable economic growth and competitiveness, including a
fiscal program consistent with national efforts to strengthen public finances and reduce
country risk, investment to alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks, power tariff reductions for
small and medium-sized firms, and lower labor costs by eliminating local payroll taxes.
Indicators of the outcomes expected to have a positive impact on reducing poverty,
below, have been developed and would be monitored, along with a more comprehensive
set of program process, outcome and impact indicators.
51



Table 8: Poverty Outcome Indicators
Program        Povery Objective       Indicator/Baseline *    |      Data Source
Education
Pedagogical and     To prioritize poor     % of poor schools benefited  Ministry of Education
Institutional      schools in the         from Strategic Plan.       Statistics.
Management at the    application of the
School level.      Strategic Plan.
Improvement in the   Increase low-income   - % of low-income students  Report on Provision of
use of subsidies to    students benefited by  benefited by subsidies and    Subsidies to Private
Private Schools     subsidies.             type of school.           Schools.
Health
Strengthening      Increase health coverage  - % of poor people within    - Beneficiaries
Primary Attention    for the poor.        total population served.   identification system.
- % of poor children within   - Use and satisfaction
program beneficiaries    survey.
- % of poor pregnant
women within program.
Autonomous         Increase hospital       - % of poor people within    Hospital records &
Hospitals          coverage for the poor.   total population served.  Satisfaction Survey.
Social Protection
To protect most        % of total SP budget      Beneficiary register &
vulnerable groups.     allocated to the poor.    Evaluation Results.
Note: These indicators would be disaggregated by gender when pertinent.
114. It is important to highlight the synergy between reforms at the federal level and
those by the provinces. While local actions are important, further reform and additional
benefits would require national efforts. For example, while the provincial government
can cut local payroll taxes, further reductions in labor costs would require cuts in national
payroll taxes and legislation to reduce labor market rigidities. In addition, while the
provincial government can strengthen its fiscal position, this in and of itself is unlikely to
reduce interest rates for local borrowing, either by the public or private sectors given the
predominance of country risk. Likewise, while some tax rates might be changed on the
margin, within local fiscal possibilities, major reform of the tax structure at the provincial
level to eliminate distortionary taxes is likely to required a coordinated efforts by all
provinces and the Federal Government and changes in the revenue-sharing system.
Finally, with limited budget and responsibilities, the Province can only compliment
national efforts to strengthen the social safety net by concentrating its efforts on poverty
pockets and in programs appropriate for local delivery mechanisms.
115. Risks. The proposed operation involves three major risks. First, although the
fiscal program is based on conservative projections on the revenue side, a significant
downturn in the economy could derail the program, if the Federal Government was not
able to meet its commitments for transfers or for financing the deficit of the state pension
system under the harmonization agreement. Apart from such a negative scenario, the
Province is well placed to absorb an economic shock at the magnitude simulated in the
sensitivity analysis presented earlier (i.e., a decline in growth of 2 percent in 2002
following by no growth in 2003) and still meet its fiscal target of no deficit in 2003. The
resulting deficit equivalent to 3 percent of current revenues could be absorbed by cuts in
the investment program or if the concessioning of the electricity distribution company
52



were successful, by tapping into the anti-crisis fund. A less severe variation of this
macro-level risk would be the failure of the Federal Government to meet its commitment
to the macro framework and the overall program to support adjustment at the provincial
level. Under this scenario, the Province would fulfill its commitments under the
program, but the Bank would not be able to disburse. Second, political commitment to
the program could waiver as the Province cannot isolate itself from adverse political and
social developments at the national level or other major provinces. Although the
program does not require further cuts on the spending side, following on the tightening in
2000, pressures could mount to increase spending. The Compromiso Federal, with its
restrictions on increasing primary expenditures was adopted by the Provincial legislature,
and would inhibit such an event. Third, the concessioning of the electric distribution
company might not occur, if an adequate offer is not received (i.e., if the offer is below
70% of the valuation). While not critical to the fiscal program, it would reduce the ability
of the Government to push efforts to support private sector development and poverty
alleviation, as well as to provide a cushion if expected revenue levels were not realized.
Investment spending would need to be reduced and efforts to increase efficiency and
promote tariff reductions would have to be met within the context of a public enterprise.
IV. RECOMMENDATION
116. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank and recommend that executive directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Sven Sandstrom
Attachments:
Washington D.C.
June 21, 2001
53






Annex A-Page 1 of 8
Argentina
Santa Fe Provincial Reform Loan
Letter of Provincial Reform
May 28, 2001
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
This letter describes, on the one hand, the principal political, economic, and social
conditions of the Santa Fe Province up until end 1999, when my administration took
office again (I had been Governor previously during the 1991-1995 period), and, on the
other hand, the reform program we are putting into place to increase the competitive
capacity of our economy, improve the efficiency, quality and equity of social service
delivery, and create a new relationship between citizens and the state, all within a
framework of fiscal equilibrium. The technical and financial assistance we are requesting
from the World Bank will be vital for us to reach our ambitious objectives of fostering
economic growth and development, alleviating poverty and improving equity in the
Province of Santa Fe and reinforcing the ongoing efforts being undertaken throughout
Argentina.
Background and Recent Reforms
Santa Fe is situated in the litoral region of the Republic of Argentina. The
Province covers an area of 133,007 square kilometers, equal to 4.7 percent of the national
territory. Its population of more than 3 million inhabitants represents 8.3 percent of the
total population of Argentina and is distributed between 315 communities and 48
municipalities. Ninety-one percent of the province is urban. Santa Fe is one of the most
important productive provinces of the country. Along with Buenos Aires, C6rdoba,
Mendoza, and the city of Buenos Aires, Santa Fe constitutes one of the more developed
areas of Argentina. The province generates more than 7 percent of GNP and about 20
percent of the county's exports, mainly through industrial and agricultural activities. Its
product per capita reached $6,240 during 1999, representing 85 percent of the same
indicator at the national level.
Notwithstanding its strong points, Santa Fe faced 1999 in a delicate fiscal
situation, which led us to push for the approval of the Emergency Economic and Security
Law. The Province is making a great effort to regain fiscal equilibrium, which should
allow us focus . Around mid-1999, finances were projected to reach a deficit of $300
million for the year. With the measures we took, this deficit was reduced to less than
$200 million in 1999, and was further reduced to $143 million in the year 2000. This
represents a achievement in the battle against unproductive expenditures, and a large
effort to improve tax collection. For the future, the budget for 2001 aims at a new



Annex A-Page 2 of 8
reduction in the fiscal deficit to reach less than $100 million at year end. We would like
to emphasize that the province has signed the latest federal fiscal agreement and thus has
committed itself to collaborating with the reduction of the national fiscal deficit, in order
to allow the Nation to absorb a greater portion of revenue-sharing during this difficult
period.
Although Santa Fe is one of the most developed Argentine provinces in terms of
social indicators, it also needs to modernize, improve, and increase the provision of social
services, especially in terms of healthcare, to children, young women, and the elderly.
Almost 18 percent of the population does not have its basic needs met and the
unemployment rate in the two main cities are above the national average and principally
affect young people with low-to-average resources and heads of families. In addition, it
is estimated that approximately 40 percent of the population of Santa Fe is not covered by
the social welfare system. As a consequence of this and the crisis of the insurance
system, urban public hospitals are overwhelmed, and the doctors and healthcare staff are
often too few to manage the large demand for their services. In education Santa Fe is
also at a relatively good level in national terms, with an illiteracy rate of 3.6 percent.
However, the need to enhance the quality and equity of the education system is pressing,
in order to improve our competitiveness and enhance equity.
The Province of Santa Fe has been developing important processes of state
transformation over the past ten years with special emphasis on fiscal management. The
World Bank financed projects such as the modernization of the land cadastre and
property tax rolls and the transfer of cadastre data to a territorial information system. The
provincial financial management system is underway, and will allow the management of
the budget, accounts, results, treasury, hiring, and performance to be equal to similar
systems in modern public institutions. The cadastre project, its initial phase completed,
and the provincial tax collection agency modernization are linked directly to the need to
increase the efficacy and efficiency of the province's collection and management of fiscal
revenues.
It is important to note that Santa Fe has progressed in the process of structural
reforms. Almost all first-generation reforms have been finalized, with the privatization of
the Provincial Water and Sewage Company and the Banco Provincial. The transfer to the
private sector of the Provincial Energy Company is well underway, with the passage of a
law to this end having been passed at end 1999. As is to be expected with such public
sector reforms, they have engendered an important increase in private investment in the
province. It has also recently come to an agreement with the national government on
reforming the provincial provisional system to gradually and completely reduce its deficit
within a period of three years, with the province of Santa Fe taking responsibility for
making sure the laws of the provisional system are in line with national regulations in
return for financial support from the federal government.



Annex A-Page 3 of 8
The Reform Program
It is now clear that provincial reform efforts need to be focused on the principal
service sectors of the province, such as education, health, and social welfare within a
framework of medium- to long-term sustainable fiscal equilibrium. These so-called
second-generation reform projects are oriented towards efficacy, efficiency, transparency,
and equity in governmental management.  Important improvements in social sector
programs are foreseen, especially in education and health, and in programs aimed at those
with the lowest incomes. This will lead to the provision of more and better services, and
the strengthening of the organizational capacity of the government. In order for the
proposed changes to be lasting, it is considered indispensable to organize and balance the
public accounts. Through continued reductions of the public deficit, it is hoped to reach a
balanced budget within three years. Specific reforms will be undertaken for this purpose
in financial management, tax collection, human resources management, control systems,
and transparency, among others.
Reform Components
12.   One of the objectives of the province of Santa Fe is to contribute to the reduction
of the costs of production for the private sector and promote production, attract
investments, and increase employment. We will achieve this through comprehensive and
integrated reforms in public finance, public administration, and social sector operations.
13.   Public Finance Reforms. We are committed to re-establishing a solid system of
public finance. Proof of this was the approval, at the request of the current government,
of the Emergency Economic and Previsional Law which permitted the generation of
savings and the presentation of a budget for 2001 which included the reduction of one
third of the provincial public sector's deficit with respect to the previous year. In this
area we are committed to controlling government expenditures with the objective of
increasing public savings and, at the same time, eliminating our deficit by 2003. These
ambitious objectives demonstrate our comnmitment to a solid budgetary policy. Our fiscal
reform program will also contribute to the fulfillment of the federal government's
macroeconomic objectives. We will also try, within the context of wider discussions on
this issue, to reach agreement on the harmonization of norms which regulate the social
security system for public employees of the province, guaranteeing its long-term financial
sustainability.
The government will also develop initiatives linked to the improvement of
administrative processes, human resource management and information, the improvement
of training programs and opportunities, the introduction of administrative re-engineering
processes, the installation of a modern, integrated system for financial management, in
line with international accounting standards, and organizational improvements based on
performance and results, especially in the health and education sectors. By complying
with the new fiscal pact, the provincial government will add to its Internet page detailed
information about the manner in which public funds are utilized. Data on its debt and
various budgetary expenditures will be updated on at least a quarterly basis. Such



Annex A-Page 4 of 8
transparency will make possible greater oversight by our citizens and will contribute to a
more efficient functioning of the government, as well as being a weapon in the battle
against corruption. In this way, the use of modem technologies will allow for improved
transparency in expenditures and will be an important step forward in the protection of
public wealth and the rights of taxpayers.
We are reducing taxes to productive sectors, eliminating the stamp tax on
contracts when new corporations are formed, eliminating the tax burden of small tax
contributors (monotributistas) during the first months of a new productive activity, and
establishing the progressive elimination of payroll taxes for the entire industrial sector.
As a consequence of the finalization of the cadastre project and the establishment of
moratoria, fiscal revenues have increased, the behavior of the province's taxpayers has
become more responsible, and taxpayers have improved compliance with their tax
obligations. In addition, the province has agreed with the national government to join the
National Tax and Social Identification System (SINTYS) in order to coordinate,
exchange, and link existing information-gathering organizations and to update the various
related databases with actualized tax and social data of its citizens.
With these results and with the completion of the privatization process initiated
during our previous stay in office, the Privatization Law for the Provincial Energy
Company was approved, with the objective of producing a sensible decrease in the tariff
structure for the productive and residential sectors, and, on the other hand, generating a
process of increased private investment in this sector, so very important to the province's
economy. It is important to note that this privatization law expressly establishes the
destination for the funds received from the privatization and to which end these funds
will go. With these funds, the objective is to create a positive impact on income growth,
production, and employment in the province
With a main industrial center for the country in the City of Rosario, a regional
center in Rafaela, and the importance of agriculture in the local economy, we are keenly
sensitive to the need for environmental protection and natural resource management. The
province has enacted a series of laws and norms during the last decade to this effect.
More recently, we have elevated public oversight on these issues to a new Secretary for
the Environmental and Sustainable Development. We look forward to the active support
of the Bank in helping us to develop this institution over the coming years, particularly in
the screening and environmental assessment of public works.
18.   Social Assistance In order to strengthen the social safety net during the current
economic downturn we have developed a new program that benefits largely female heads
of households from the lower economic levels, that complete national social assistance
programs as well as other local programs. We would continue to help improve the
effectiveness and targeting of our programs and to develop a data base to improve our
coordination with national efforts. To enhance our efforts to reach the most vulnerable
groups we are counting on further assistance from the Bank in providing advice the
Secretary for Community Promotion.



Annex A-Page 5 of 8
Education Sector Reforms. Of all the nation's provinces, Santa Fe is rated
second in terms of number of students, and has a high rate of graduation as a product of a
sustained effort over the past ten years to improve the fairness, quality, and efficiency of
the education system. Within the implementation framework established by the Federal
Education Law and the Agreements of the Federal Council, the extension of schooling.
This important effort poses challenges in terms of the quality of learning and the
efficiency of resource use. For this, the provincial government has defined the following
as central points in its priority for the sector: (i) the application of the new Higher
Secondary Education Cycle (Polimodal Module); (ii) the improvement of human resource
and financial management; (iii) improvement of pedagogical and institutional measures,
especially the consolidation of the third cycle of the EGB in vulnerable sectors; and (iv)
the strengthening of the Superior Institutes of Educational Training and Technical
Education.
The province has given high priority to education in terns of budget allocation (in
the 2001 budget, the expenditures of the Ministry of Education represent 39 percent of
total expenditures of the Central government), and will continue to do so. It is important
to emphasize that any savings generated from greater efficiency in resource use will be
reassigned within the educational system.
During 2000, the experimental development and application of a Polimodal
Program was undertaken in a group of schools, and the preparation of the program
(curriculum design, selection of foci, definition of institutional organization) was done
with a wide participation of the middle level educational communities. Starting in 2001,
all schools from the previous middle level will be transferred, and the students who pass
9th grade of the EGB will be able to enter the first year of the Polimodal Program. The
mobility of teachers currently in the system will be facilitated by permitting a rapid
relocation according to personnel needs that emerge from the implementation of the new
study plans corresponding to each orientation within the Program.
The Ministry of Education is decentralizing its administrative circuits, delegating
central duties to regional institutions and it has designed a Human Resource Management
System (SARH) that will undertake the electronic processing of data for teaching and
non-teaching staff based on the model of "the single electronic file." This will allow for
greater control of assets, registration of absences, and compliance with norms regulating
the accumulation of responsibilities and teaching hours to obtain greater fairness in the
distribution of the labor supply and to avoid conditions where too many accumulated
hours conspire against proper performance of the teaching professionals. This system
will also make possible each school's strict compliance with norms established by the
system of optimal allocation of human resources according to the number of students and
the study plans (POF), a decisive factor in the improvement of the student-to-teacher
ratio. In addition, a School Management and Administration System (SIGAE) is also
being developed and will permit a precise knowledge of the enrollment of each school,
without repeats, and of the curriculum of each student, in order to facilitate adequate
supervision and the prevention of abandonment by problematic students.



Annex A-Page 6 of 8
Optimal resource allocation includes the analysis of contributions to privately-
managed schools, for which an exhaustive review will be made of the actual distribution
of such schools and the procedures used for documentation and control. Depending on
the results that emerge from this review, the norms to be applied will be revised.
In order to strengthen pedagogical and institutional performance of the schools, it
is important to improve the use of information generated by each school and the
provincial educational system. In particular, the results from national achievement tests
(ONE) will be used in a more integrated fashion. These actions are based on the giving
of greater emphasis on rural and marginal urban schools in order to consolidate the
process which allowed for a higher rate of curriculum completion and the promotion of
students to the third cycle of the EGB.
The evaluation of careers and superior teaching institutes are undergoing a full
evaluation process which will be done in accordance with the current Federal Education
Council Agreements. This will allow for the adjustment of supply according to the needs
of the province's teachers and the deepening of technical education at the superior, non-
university level.
Health Sector Reforms. In this sector, the province of Santa Fe demonstrates the
same inconsistencies and unfairness suffered by our nation as a whole. Data on mortality
in the province show that, amongst the top ten causes of death, cardiovascular
complications and tumors are particularly prominent, and this is in line with the
epidemiological profile of upper income countries. Mortality rates from automobile
accidents have risen sharply in the past 5 years, directly related to growth in the number
of automobiles. Nevertheless, infectious pathologies (tuberculosis, AIDS, hepatitis,
chagas, etc.) continue to be highly prevalent in the province, in particular among the
poorest of the population. This superposition of chronic infectious pathologies in a
region as large as the province of Santa Fe constitutes an epidemiological model in
transition (from the disease model of the underdeveloped world to that model in
developed nations), which, in light of the current socioeconomic situation, tends to be
perpetuated in an indeterminate manner since both pathological groups carry the same
weight in the "global disease burden."
Infant mortality, which in 1999 was at 15.6 per thousand births, is drastically
higher than average in the northern and coastal departments (Vera, Garay, General
Obligado, and San Javier), implying a clear association between infant mortality and
income level. When observing the evolution of infant mortality indices during 1988-
1998, the province was able to decrease mortality rates on average by eight percentage
points. Nevertheless, in the departments of Garay, Vera, 9 de Julio, San Javier, and
General Obligado, the mortality rates decreased by only 2 percentage points in the same
time period.
The public health system of the province depends heavily on its hospitals and
operates with supply subsidies based on historical budgets, without a clear policy on the
strategy to be followed for primary health care. To add to this, demand for health



Annex A-Page 7 of 8
services by the populace has increased by more than 20 percent in the past two years, in
line with the progressive increase in unemployment and the lowered consumption power
of families.
The health sector has benefited from substantial investments during the last few
years, which have led to service improvements. However, the sustainability of these
investments and the increase in their effectiveness require a restructuring of the system to
improve the provision of services by the public health network to low-income, uninsured
sectors of the population as well as to redirect the network towards primary health care
and ambulatory medical services.  There is also the opportunity to reinforce the
promotion of healthy practices and disease prevention.
The province's strategy is aimed at strengthening health coverage for the
population, particularly those who are most vulnerable, improving the options available
to the populace, and guaranteeing the sector's fiscal viability. The actions to be taken
include:
a) Strengthening Primary Health Services. This will allow for better coverage of
public health services to low-income sectors of the population. To accomplish
this, a first-level module will be implemented and will give priority to prevention
and promotion of healthy practices in low-income sectors of the population. As
part of the preparatory work, a revision of public health expenditures was made
and it showed that current health expenditures in Santa Fe are sufficient to finance
a health benefits package for low-income and uninsured members of the
population as well as programs for promotion of public health and disease
prevention for all the populace. Nevertheless, some budgetary changes will need
to be made. The new health strategy will tend towards: (i) changing the allocation
of jurisdictional resources with the objective of implementing a pilot health
coverage program for low-income sectors with health teams that will offer
primary health prevention and promotion services, including other services aimed
at reducing the principal causes of loss of healthy years of life, especially for
maternal-child care, preventable diseases, and frequent adult pathologies; and (ii)
create an Assistance Program for the Non-Insured as a means to direct health
services to those most in need and measure the demand for secondary and tertiary
health services. The program will include: 1- a system to identify those who need
services and are uninsured; II- a medical assistance plan with preventive
components and primary services for prevalent, seasonal, maternity, and infant
diseases, access to ambulatory services, and the provision of auxiliary diagnostic
services; III- training of the primary attention team; IV- a community
participation scheme; and V- an audit of services given and program user
satisfaction.
b) Autonomous Hospitals Providing Secondary and Tertiary Services. The
province will complement the focus on primary health services with a gradual
reduction in the intervention of hospitals for primary services, allowing them to
concentrate their efforts on secondary and tertiary services. At the same time the



Annex A-Page 8 of 8
province will implement a new modality for linking the ministry with the
providers, making the distinction between the roles of financier and policymaker,
for the former, from that of service provider, for the hospitals. The province will
establish agreements with decentralized service establishments which will include
cost recovery (as a way to limit cross subsidies to insured primary service
receivers). The agreements will be an instrument through which to introduce
improvements in administrative management, the volume and quality of services
provided, the model of health service provision, and customer service. At the
same time, monitoring systems for these improvements will be developed and
reward systems will be linked to the performance of the sectors.
c) Strengthening of the Ministry of Health. This will be accomplished in the area
of health policy and administration. The program will strengthen the Ministry's
ability to: (I) regulate, monitor, and evaluate the need for incorporating new
technologies and new health establishments; (II) create an information system to
evaluate the qualifications of and grant accreditation to health establishments; and
(III) promote the re-certification of health professionals in their specialties.
Implementation and Monitoring
The loan requested from the World Bank will assist the province of Santa Fe to
put into practice the group of measures that comprise the reform program mentioned
above. The implementation of the public sector reform program will be coordinated by a
unit that, through the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, will report directly to the
executive branch. The actual execution of the program will be carried out by the various
ministries and heads of decentralized organizations involved in the reforms, reinforcing
their efforts when necessary with technical assistance. Ample consensus has arisen from
the discussions held up until now with various sectors of the community on the contents
of the program.
Mr. Wolfensohn, we are firmly convinced of the necessity to undertake the
proposed reforms. For this, we consider it of vital importance to have the financial and
technical support of the World Bank, as we will also benefit from the experience that the
institution you lead has to offer. We want and believe that, through this important reform
program, we will continue to cultivate the highly productive relationship that the
province of Santa Fe has maintained with the World Bank over the previous decade.
Sincerely
Dr. Carlos Alberto Reutemann
Governor of the Province of Santa Fe



Annex B-Page 1 of 6
Argentina
Santa Fe Provincial Reform Loan
Policy Matrix
Objective/Program                Accomplished                    Second Tranche                      Third Tranche
FINANCES AND
ADMINISTRATION
Fiscal Targets             Fiscal measure adopted in late 1999    At least a balance in current result  Current savings equivalent to at least 4
have reduced the fiscal deficit from    during the preceding six month  percent of current revenues during the
8% of current revenues in that year to  period.                   preceding six months.
4% of current revenues in 2000. The
Province has signed an agreement  Debt stock equal to or less than 50  Debt stock equal to or less than 50 percent
with Federal government to achieve    percent of current revenues.  of current revenues.
fiscal equilibrium by 2005.
Financial Management       Draft law for improving financial  Draft financial management bill of  Financial management law has been
management and procurement        law submitted to the Legislature.   approved and regulations have been issued
systems and establishing criteria for   Fiscal accounts made available on   by the executive branch.
fiscal solvency. Financing for    the Provincial web site would
implementation of new systems has   include budgetary execution,
been agreed with the National     treasury balance and debt service
Ministry of Interior.             obligations.
Public Investment          Economic appraisal and            Public works of more than $7.5  Mitigation measures as indicated by
environmental impact screening now   million included for the first time   environmental assessments are being
being carried out for flood protection  in the provincial budget presented  implemented.
works and road maintenance with  to the Legislature have been
external financing.               evaluated using economic
appraisal techniques and have been
carried out environmental impacts
assessments and are implementing
mitigation measures.                  .-



Annex B-Page 2 of 6
The annual budget for routine road  The annual budget for routine road
maintenance budget is at least $15   maintenance budget is at least $20 million
million.
Tax Reform and             Province has agreed to begin       Province and Federal Government  Software for tax forms for gross receipts
Administration             eliminating the payroll tax for    are sharing tax data in accordance  tax have been available to provincial
industrial activities (Aportes Sociales) with the National Identification  taxpayers.
under Law 11876. It has also agreed   System for Tax Payers and Social
to eliminate through Law 11863 the    Assistance Beneficiaries
stamp tax for the creation and    (SINTyS).
expansion of new enterprises; and for
small business (Monotributo) the first Payroll tax reduced by two-thirds
quarter payment of the turnover tax    on the industrial sector from its  Payroll tax on the industrial sector reduced
(Ingresos Brutos) and the payroll tax.  original level by 2002    to zero by 2003
(Aportes Sociales)
Subproject to modernize tax
administration has been agreed with
the National Ministry of Interior.
Privatization of Public    Privatization Law (Law 11727) has    EPE has been publicly tendered.    If EPE stock has been purchased by the
Electricity Distribution   been approved.                     Clean-up of contamination       private sector, (a) the executive has
Enterprise (EPE)                                              identified by environmental review  forwarded to the legislature nominations
has been completed.             for the council of the provincial regulatory
agency; (b) regulations for the use of the
proceeds have been issued and reports on
the use of the funds made available as
requested by the Bank.



Annex B-Page 3 of 6
SOCIAL PROTECTION    Province has agreed to protect the     Budget for current year of at least  Budget for current year of at least $50.9
Secretary for Community Promotion   $50.9 million for SEPC approved   million for SEPC approved by the
(SEPC) from budget cuts. New      by the Legislature completed for at Legislature. Action plans agreed for
social assistance program (PPASS)    least two of the ongoing provincial improving the effectiveness of at least two
benefiting largely poor female heads   social assistance programs.  of the provincial social assistance
of households has incorporated and                                programs.
benefits 16,000 families.
Unique beneficiary registry has been
initiated with 70,000 names in the                                Registry operational and linked to national
computerized system                                               system.
EDUCATION
The total provincial budget for   The total provincial budget     The total provincial budget approved by
Educational Expenditure    education, including that financed by  approved by the Legislature for the  the Legislature for the Year 2003 is no
other sources, in 2001 is $914    Year 2002 is no less than that of   less than that of the year 2001.
million. A simulation model has been  the year 2001.
prepared to measure the fiscal impact
of the educational reform and the
measures taken to improve efficiency
in the use of resources.
Human Resource             A normative framework has been    At least 50 percent of the teaching  All teaching staff has been incorporated
Management                 enacted for the implementation of a    staff has been incorporated into the  into the SARH.
human resource management system    SARH.
(SARH).
A school registration module based    50% implementation of       100% implementation of the SIGAE.
on a single electronic file (Legajo  the School Management and
Unico) for each student has been  Administration System (SIGAE).
established.
Mechanisms for the mobility of    SIGAE and SARH systems have    Redefined POF applied throughout the
teaching staff at all educational levels  been integrated to define the Planta  school system.
have been studied and new norms to   Organica Funcional (POF)
facilitate staff mobility are being
developed.



Annex B-Page 4 of 6
Pedagogical and            A Strategic Plan is being prepared for  At least half of the secondary  All secondary schools in the system have
Institutional Management   the use of the ONE and other existing  schools in the system have PEls    PEIs incorporating the ONE.
educational information in School    incorporating information from
Development Plans (PEI)           ONE.
Strengthening of Teacher   An institutional analysis of the  Action Plan which presents the  Accreditation of IFDs of both public and
Training Institutes        Institutos Superiores de Formacion    consolidation of the supplv of the   private schools consistent with Action
Docente (IFD) has been developed to  IFDs by function and courses with  Plan.
map the services being provided in    the demand for services, for the
context of the demand for such    purposes of accrediting public and
services.                         private IDFs in accordance with
the framework of the existing
Provincial Evaluation Commission  norms of the Federal Education
report on the status of IFD's of both   Council (Consejo Federal de
public and private sector..       Educacion)
Improving Equity in Private  A concept paper has been prepared    Develop new regulatory norms for  Issuance of regulatory norms to Law 6437.
School Subsidies.          regarding objectives in equity,   the allocation of subsidies with
efficiency and quality in the     criteria of equity, efficiency and
allocation of subsidies to private  quality.
schools.
An auditing system will be     A permanent auditing system has been
Audits of 60 schools have been    developed based on the lessons  established which will reach at least a
completed in 2000.                learnt from the audit of 2000.  10% of private schools each year.



Annex B-Page 5 of 6
HEALTH
Database of uninsured population in   The Primary Care Program for the   The Primary Care Program for uninsured
Strengthening Primary       Zone HI is ready, as well as a      uninsured population is operating   citizens is functioning in Zone HI and in
Care for the Uninsured      beneficiary identification system, a    in Zone m.                    other areas (covering an additional 150,000
health benefits package and an                                       beneficiaries).
assessment of potential health care
providers in the Zone. Designs have   Utilization and consumer surveys   During the six months prior to tranche
been completed for service, utilization  have been applied prior to the  release in Zone m:
and consumer surveys.               beginning of the Program.              - at least 60% of all children are
included in the Program.
-at least 2 on-site audits on health
care providers have been realized,
assessing services.
-All women with 4 months or more
of pregnancy will have had at least
two prenatal controls.
Improving Public Hospitals  A performance baseline has been     A performance baseline has been
completed in seven hospitals and the   done for all 55 reference-based
Ministry of Health (MOH) and four    public hospitals. The MOH has
hospitals have signed performance   adopted a resolution to monitor
agreements, which include           and supervise (at least every four
measurable objectives regarding (i)    months) the performance of its
cost recovery, (ii) monitoring      public hospitals.
consumer satisfaction, (iii)
articulating services with peripheral   At least seven hospitals have  At least 70% of the goals defined in the
health centers, (iv) improving      signed performance agreements    initial hospital agreements with four
indicators identified in the baseline    Patient admission and discharging   hospitals have achieved a minimum of
and (v) changing the health care    services are in place in at least  50% of the define target.
model.                              seven hospitals, including
Mechanisms have been designed for   procedurs for identifying and
identifying insured patients and   billing ins. e patients.
___ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ _.   .   ,~ I   .- _-   __    J._ lmgisrdptes.___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



Annex B-Page 6 of 6
effectively billing and recovering  At least 60% of identified insured   Cost-recovery systems have been
these service costs. A cost-recovery   patients have been billed.    implemented in all 55 reference-based
baseline has been done for seven                                     hospitals. In at least seven hospitals billing
public hospitals. Evaluation of                                      is done to 80% of identified insured
mechanism for redistributing cost-                                   patients.
recovery in four hospitals is underway
to serve as a basis for providing
incentives for improving productivity
of health professionals.
Strengthening the           The following studies have been     A census has been completed of    20% reduction in the number of facilities
regulatory role of the      completed or are underway (as proven  the licensing status of         without accreditation (either by being
Ministry of Health          by terms of reference discussed with   professionals performing medical   accredited or closed).
the Bank, signed contracts for      services in medical facilities
consultants and/or final results                                     The norm for re-licensing professionals has
available): correspondence between                                   been approved.
population needs and technological
supply capacity; current status of                                   Random field-controls audits of at least 5%
facilities without accreditation; and a                              of the total number of registered
census of licensed health care                                       institutions provider facilities have been
professionals                                                        completed.
Provincial Insurer          Design of the financing monitoring  LAPOS is in financial and         LAPOS is in financial and economic
Carrier (IAPOS)             system that will enable regular     economic equilibrium. This        equilibrium. This equilibrium is defined as
follow-ups of the IAPOS balances   equilibrium is defined as annual    annual revenues equal or greater than
and financing status, to assure its  revenues equal or greater than  annual expenditures The evaluation should
equilibrium                        annual expenditures The           be done for 12-continus months
evaluation should be done for 12-   immediately preceding the date of tranche
continus months immediately      release.
preceding the date of tranche
release.



Annex C-Page 1 of 1
Argentina
Santa Fe Provincial Reform Loan
Documents in the Project File
Santa Fe Public Expenditure Review
Financial Management Assessment
Procurement Review
Social Consultation
Social Development Strategy
Tax reformn and Administration






ANNEX D (IBRD) Page 1 o12
ARGENTINA - SANTA FE PROVINCIAL REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Stln-t of L-n, nd Credits
A. 0FS eD/f5512&01
Clo..d Prej.OI      71
18RWDA1 '
T.%I D..d (A0e                                               2,0.20
W~h-b-~.d                                   270 48
TO.I Di8d (CI-d)                                             11,74.00
0?S ARI,oIo.n mod                                       05.031 W
ToNe. DMOd (AoII  .                                          13, 177417
er ~ h0 o 1p d                                           5,300 48
TON U..-d (A.'.)                                             2Aze 37
TONfI Ur,..d (CI-d)                                             000
TONI UrdM,0d (A.&. CI.Wd)                                    2.4.37
Aafve P,jd                                                                                                                                                                                 Diter 81.tw
Last PSR                                                                                                  EEped-td .48 Ael
Sup-nrion Rating                                         Or:tgin Ame.tIn. USI Mi0Ift                            Dsb.u,-ntsI
Prqj.ot D                  Prit NaN..                                    D-*O l  mt             '        Fi-oaI Ye             ISRO             IDA         GRANT           Cne.el.   Undi.b.    Orig. FM RevWd
P044447                    AR Catamarca Provincial Reform                     S              S             2001                70.7              0              0               0      70.7      25.7        0
P068344                    AR Cordoba PRL5                                   NA             NA             2001                303               0              0               0       303         0        0
P057473                    AR INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LIL           S               S            2001                   5               0              0               0         5         0        0
P050713                    AR MODEL COURT DEV.                                S              S             1998                  5               0              0               0       3.9       3.9        0
P046821                    AR PENSION TA                                     S               S             1997                 20               0              0               0       5 9       5.6        0
P006018                    ARPROVDEVTIt                                       S             HS             1995                225               0              0               0      51.4      -09         0
P037049                    AR PUB.INV.STRENGTHG                               S              S             1996                  18               0             0              5.5      6.5        12        0
P055461                    AR SOC&FISC NTL ID SYS                            HS              5             1999                  10               0             0                0      47        4.7        0
P062992                    AR SPEC REPURCHASE                                 S              S             1999                 505               0             0                0      500         0        0
P057449                    AR State Modemization                              S              S             1999                30.3              0              0               0      25 9      22.5        0
P057459                    AR Sustainabla Flshenes Management Proj            S              S             2001                  5                0             0               0         5         0        0
P064614                    AR- Second Secondary Education Project            NA             NA             2001                  57               0             0               0        57         0        0
P043418                    AR-AIDS AND STD CONTROL                            U              S             1997                 15                0             0               0       2.3       2.2        0
P063388                    AR-HEALTH INSURANCE FOR THE UNINSURED              S              S             2000                 4.9               0             0               0       4.9         3        0
P045687                    AR-HEALTH INSURANCE TA                            S               S             1996                 25                0             0               0       0.4       0.4        0
P034091                    AR-HIGHER ED, REFORM                               S              S             1996                 165               0             0               0      63.8      63 6        5
P006059                    AR-MATERNAL & CHILD HLTH & NUTRITION 2            S               S             1997                 100              0              0               0      52.2       8.6        0
P006030                    AR-PROV. HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT                 U              S             1996               101.4               0             0              0.2     33.4      33.6        0
P055482                    AR-PUB. HLTH. SURV. & DISEASE CONTROL             S               S             2000                52.5               0             0               0      48.6      18.2        0
P005992                    AR-SECONDARY ED 1                                  5              5             1995                 190               0             0             21.3     15.9      37.2      17.2
P006057                    AR-SECONDARY ED. 2                                 5              S             1996               115.5              0              0               0      54.3      52.7        0
P050714                    AR-SECONDARYEDUCATION3                             5              S             1998                 119               0             0                0      157      157         0
P049269                    AR-SOCIAL PROTECTION 3                             S              S             1998                284                0             0                0     19.9      19.9        0
P006058                    AR-SOCIAL PROTECTION 4                             S              S             1999                90 8               0             0               0      66 5      18 4        0
P039584                    B.A.URB.TSP                                        U              U             1997                200               0              0               0    125.9       81 2      -0.1
P039787                    BIODIVER.CONSEV PROJ                               S              S             1998                  0                0           10 1               0      8 3         0        0
P055935                    EL NINO EMERGENCY FLOOD PROJECT                    5              5             1998                 42                0             0               0      26.5      26 5     22.2
P006052                    FLOOD PROTECTION                                   5              5             1997                 200               0             0                0    145.2    121.2      84.9
P006040                    FORESTRYIDV                                        S              S             1996                  16               0             0                0      7.4       5.2        0
PO03055                    MINING SCTR DEVT                                  HS              S             1996                  30               0             0               0        1 8      1.4        0
P055477                    MINING TA                                          S              S             1998                39.5               0             0                0     12.1      12.1        0
P006060                    MUNICDEVTIt                                       HS             HS             1995                 210               0             0                0     52.5    -32.1         0
P040808                    N.FORESTIPROTC                                     5              5             1997                19.5               0             0                0     121        -0 4       0
P052590                    NAT HWY REHAB&MAINT                                5              5             1998                 450               0             0               0     187.3    128 4         0
P051695                    P.RFM(R.NEGRO)                                     U              U             1998                  0               0              0                0        0         0        0
P051694                    P RFM(S.JUAN)                                     HU              U             1998                  0                0             0                0        0         0        0
P006050                    POLLUTION MGT.                                     5              5             1998                  18              0              0               0      16.9      117       4.3
P006010                    PROVAGDEVrI                                        S              S             1997                 125               0             0               0       112      43.4      172
a. Inlended disbursements to dae minus actual disbursements to date as projected 9t appraisal.



ANNEX D (tbRD) Page 2 of 2
Active Prd                                                                                                                                                                                 Dwrx llet
L"A PSR                                                                                                     xpEpctad E d A b.
Sup.rvi.ion Reth                                        OQraiet Amuet in S3 Mtilt;n.                            Dbblulwn m9-
Prr4uet D                  Pojei N. D,.Ibn                                             I                 Rewt_ol Ftl Y-r       IBRD             IDA        GRANT            C    1.  Lindlnb.    Odg. Frm Reed
P005980                    PROV ROADS                                        S               5             1997                300               0              0               0       236       187        0
P005920                    REDUCTION OF OZONE D                              S               S             1997                  0               0             25               0      12.3      -9.5        0
P045048                    RENEWvENERGY R.MKTS                               S              NA             1999                  0               0            9.1               0       8.8       2.5        0
P006043                    RENEW.ENERGY R.MKTS                               S               S             1999                 30               0              0               0      29.1       6.7        0
P005968                    SEGBA V                                           U               U             1987                276               0              0             10.5     17.2      27.7        0
P006041                    SMALL FARMER DV.                                  S               S             1998                 75               0              0               0      42.3      30.5     30.5
P006046                   WATER SCTR RFRM                                    S               S             1999                 30               0              0               0      28.2      15.9        0
Overal result                                                                                             Resutt            4,576.1              0           44.2             37.4  2,498.7   1,001.4    181.3
a. Intended disbursements tI date minus actual disbursements to data as prOjeCted at appraisal



ANNEX E
Page 1 of 2
Argentina at a glance                                                              2910512D01
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   middle-
Argentina   & Carib.  Income
1999                                                                                 Development dlamond'
Population, mid-year (millions)                        36.6       509       573
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    7,550      3,840     4,900                 Life expectancy
GNP (Atlas method, US$Sbillions)                      276.1      1,955     2,811
Average annual growth, 1992-99
Population (I%)                                         1.3        1.6       1.4
Labor force (%)                                         2.1        2.5       2.1     GNP                             Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                per                            primary
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    1 8                         capita                       enrollment
Urban population (% of total population)                 90        75        76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         73        70        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 19        31        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                2         8         7
Access to safe water (% of population)                   65        75        78                Access to safe water
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      3        12        10
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)    111       113       109
Male                                                  111         .Argentina
Female                                                111                                   Upper-middce-income group
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                            77.0    141.4      283 3     285.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 25.3      140       17.9      16.0                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              5 1     10.4        9.8      10.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    23.8     19.7       16.2      16.9
Gross national savings/GDP                    22.8      15 4      13.5      14.3
Current account balance/GDP                    -6.4      1.2      -4.4      -3.3     Dmsi
Interest payments/GDP                          3.8      4.6        4.0       4 4      omInvestment
Total debt/GDP                                35.3     44.0       51.5      51.6     Savings                      I
Total debt service/exports                    47.6      18.7      85.6      93.0
Present value of debtGDP                                          503 
Present value of debtexports                                     403 7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  -0.7      4.4     -3.4       -0.5       3.7               Argentfina
GNP per capita                       -2.5      3.7     -4.9       -1.4       21          -Upper-middeincome group
Exports of goods and services         3.8      8.2     -1.4        1.8       2.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMYW
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of invesinent and GDP1%)
(%6 oF GDP)
Agricuiture                                    6.4      8.1        4.4       4.5    20
Industry                                      41.2     36 0       26.0      26.0
Manufacturing                               29.5      26.8      17.0      16.7
Services                                      52.4     55.9       76.0      76.5     10a v7   98
Private consumption                           762      77 8       70.1      69.3    -20
General government consumption                16.1     17 2       13.7      138 
Imports of goods andservices                   6.5      7.4       11.5      11.4              -GD            *GDP
(average annual growth)                    198090  1990-00       1999      2000      Growth rates of exports and imports 1%)
Agriculture                                    0.7      3.6        1.6      -2.7    40
Industry                                      -1.3      3.9       -6.7      -3.0    30
Manufacturing                                -0.8      2.9      -7.7       -2 8    20
Services                                       0.0      4.5       -1.5       0.5    10 i
Private consumption                            -04      5.2       -2.7      -0.1                  go   97
General government consumption                 2.6      2.2        0.8      -0.4                             le 9W       a`
Gross domestic investment                      -8.3     9.2      -12.8      -863    -20
Imports of goods and services                  -15     12.6      -11.7       0.2                -Exports    lO mports
Gross national product                        -0.9      4,0       -3.7      -0.7
Note. 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete



ANNEXE
Page 2 of 2
Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1980    1990       1999      2000      Inflation ()
(% change)                                                                           l-
Consumer prices                             100.B  2,314.0       -1.2      -0.8       o 4    5    96    9     9      9     00
Implicit GDP deflator                        90.8  2,076.8       -1.9       1.1
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                              32.2                24.7      24.1    -20
Current budget balance                        4.0                -1.8      -2 1                    GDP deflator  _>   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       -3.7        -       -31      -3.4
TRADE
(US$Smillions)                               1980     1990       1999     2000      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                 12,488    23,333   26,642       35000
Food                                                1,374     2,063     2,356     30,000
Meat                                          ..    873         829       946     25000
Manufactures                                  .. 3,364        6,952     7,938     2005
Total imports (cif).    4,197    25,508   26,011                                    i5saac.
Food                                           ..    366      4,522     4,611     10ooso
Fuel and energy                                     133423      730       745      5s000
Capital goods                                 .. 1,338    11,902    12,137 
I   94   95   go   97   go   99   00
Export price index (1993=100)                             -        87       96
Import pnce index (1993=t100)                            .         91       89                aExports     iltmports
Terms of trade (1993=100)                                          95      108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1980    1990       1999      20        Currentaccount balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and services               9,893   14,727     27,76.4  30,828      0
Imports of goods and services              13,081    6,954    32,630    32,594
Resource balance                            -3,188    7,773    -4,866    -1,766
Net iricome                                 -1,609   -6,203    -5,247    -5,061
Net current transfers                        -101       71    -2,331    -2,533    -3
Current account balance                    -4,898    1,641    -12,444    -9,361     4
Financing items (net)                       6,776    1,352    13,645      8,921
Changes in net reserves                     -1,878   -2,993    -1,201      439   |-6
Meno:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          .   10,814    27,831    26,465
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)               0.0      0.5       1.0       1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990       1999      2000
(US$ millions)                                                                            Composition of total debt, 2000
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       16,774   48,676   145,955   147,186                      (USS mi.)
IBRD                                        367    2,281      8,314    8,789                  2009   476 161
IDA                                           0        0         0         0
Total debt service                          3,190    4,953    23,140   24,343
IBRD                                         60      423       998     1,239
IDA                                           0        0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               2       21          6        6          3274
Official creditors                           58      456      1,538     1,957                                    0 7
Private creditors                         6,038     -974      3,977    -3,752
Foreign direct investment                   678    1,836      8,236    10,696                369
Portfolio equity                              0       13       -112       15
World Bank program                                                                |                                           I
Commitments                                  27        0        132      441      A - IBRD                      E - PlrateraI
Disbursements                                71      405      1,573     1,019     C IMF                        G - Short-term
Principal repayments                         34      233       445       538
Net fows                                     37      172      1,128      481    1                           _
Interest payments                            37      181       553       701
Net transfers                                 0       -9       575      -220



Annex F-Page I of 11
Argentina
Santa Fe Provincial Reform Loan
Private Sector Development
Overview
1.    With the Convertibility Plan and the opening of Argentina's economy in the early
1990s, Santa Fe's industrial and agricultural base was forced to become more competitive,
through investments in new technology and cost cutting measures. The result is a province
with a fairly well diversified body of agricultural and industrial production and
internationally competitive cost structures for certain sectors such as dairy and livestock.
The province's industrial center is the city of Rosario in the south of the province where
approximately 45% of industry is concentrated. The north of the province is mainly used
for raising cattle, as it suffers from structural flooding, and is less populated and
industrialized than the south.
2.    The current state of the private sector in Santa Fe is decidedly influenced by the
overall downturn in the performance of the Argentine economy during the past two years,
including the impact of the Brazilian devaluation, and a downturn in agriculture related
commodity prices. Although increases in Santa Fe's local consumption in supermarkets,
industrial production, production of beef, and exports of grains and oils have outperformed
the national averages for the first half of 2000, the province's industry has been adversely
affected by the stagnant domestic economy, including a downturn in the construction
sector. For example, currently Rosario, the industrial hub of Santa Fe, has one of the
highest unemployment rates in Argentina of 18.5% (May 2000), as compared to the
national figure of 15.7 percent. Finally, the recent outbreak of foot and mouth disease in
Argentina is likely to have an adverse impact on livestock production (Santa Fe has the
third largest cattle herd in the country.
3.    Mercosur also directly impacts the province, since many of its products compete
directly with Brazilian products (i.e. milk, furniture, auto parts, chicken, pork, shoes,
agricultural equipment). The Brazilian devaluation in early 1999 made it difficult for
Argentine companies to remain competitive vis-a-vis their Brazilian counterparts. In
particular, local companies with operations in Brazil reportedly shifted some activities to
that country to take advantage of relatively lower costs there. At the same time, however,
Santa Fe was expected to receive US$60 million in investments during 2000, in areas such
as telecommunications, services, chemicals, meat packing, dairy and industrial equipment.
In addition, over the next three years, the province is expecting to be host to more than
US$350 million of investments from Telefonica of Argentina, la Compafiia Minera El
Aguilar of Bolivia, and Compafiia Cervecerias Unidas (CCU) of Argentina.
4.    Beyond the influenced of the current downturn, the private sector in Santa Fe
suffers to one degree or another from largely the same limitations found throughout
Argentina, including access to financing, infrastructure, distortionary taxes, a cumbersome
public sector, and a weak judiciary.



Annex F-Page 2 of 11
Production in Santa Fe
5.    Agriculture. The bulk of Santa Fe's agricultural activities are concentrated in two
"traditional" sectors for the province, grain and cattle raising.
* Grains. Santa Fe primarily produces corn, wheat, sorghum, rice and malt, which
constituted a 17% participation in national cereal production for the planting year
1998/1999. The province of Santa Fe is the second largest producer of corn, wheat and
sorghum in Argentina, producing 2.5 million tons, 1.7 million tons, and 856,000 tons,
respectively, in 1998/1999.
*  Livestock. Santa Fe is the third largest cattle-raising province in Argentina. The
province has 6.3 million head of cattle, or 12.6% of the national total. Similarly, the
province is increasing the importance of pork in the mix of livestock, and for 1998 the
province had 557,610 pigs, or 16.7% of the country's total. The recent outbreak of foot
and mouth disease in Argentina may have an adverse impact on local production.
6.    In addition, the following "non-traditional" products are also cultivated in the
province:
*  Strawberries. Santa Fe is the number one producer of strawberries in Argentina. The
province produces on average 7 million to 8.5 million kg of strawberries per year
(US$9-1 1 million in sales), or 40% of the country's annual production. Provincial
companies (8 companies) process the strawberries for use in the elaboration of pastries,
yogurt, ice cream, and preserves.
*  Honey. Santa Fe produces 14% of the country's honey. Argentina, with 70,000 tons
production for 1998, is the third largest producer of honey in the world, ranking behind
China and the US. Since Argentine consumption of honey is relatively low, the
majority is exported (98% is exported in barrels and 2% in jars). Historically Germany
was the principal destination for exports, but in the recent past the US has become the
number one buyer of Argentine honey.
*  Cotton. For the planting year 1998/1999, Santa Fe produced 35,280 tons of cotton, or
5.7% of the national total.
*  Sugar. For 1999, Santa Fe produced 13,634 tons of sugar, or 0.9% of the country's
total. There are 2 sugar mills in the province. A small amount of sugar is exported by
to Uruguay.
7.    Industry. Santa Fe's industry is concentrated in the three sectors described below:
* Edible Oil and Flour. Santa Fe is the largest producer of oils and flour in Argentina
(68.7% of total). The province has crushing capacity of 40,000 tons/day. For 1999, the
province produced 3.2 million tons of oils, 12.2 tons of by products (pellets), and



Annex F-Page 3 of 11
508,506 tons of wheat flour. The principal oils produced in order of importance are soy
(74%), sunflower (6%), and cottonseed (20%). The provincial industry is made up of
21 companies that have 66% of the country's crushing capacity and 76% of the
country's storage capacity. The provincial ports have enabled the oil industry to take a
dominant position, since exports of approximately US$1 billion are shipped primarily
from the local ports. Approximately 20% of edible oils produced in Santa Fe are
consumed in Argentina and the rest is exported. The wheat flour industry also has
given way to industries that elaborate flour based products. The province is home to 55
companies that produce pastas, and 453 companies that produce bakery products
(cookies, breads, etc.). In the last few years, specialty sectors have developed, such as
ready mixes and specialty flours.
*  Dairy Products. Santa Fe is the number one producer and exporter of dairy products in
Argentina. For 1999, the province processed 3 billion liters of milk, of which 62% was
used for the production of cheese, 18% for powdered milk, 14% for milk, 4% for dulce
de leche, and 2% for desserts and butter. A liter of milk costs about US$0.57 per liter
to produce and the average sales price is US$0.80 per liter.
- Meat Processing. Santa Fe processes about 30% of the country's beef. The province
exports 42% of its production, and accounts for about 45% of the country's high value
exports (such as the Hilton quota). The province also produces sausages and cold cuts
primarily for internal consumption.
8.   Industrial activities also exist in the following areas:
* Autos, parts and spares. A General Motors factory is based in Santa Fe. The province
produces auto parts and spare parts for the domestic market as well as for export.
* Agricultural machinery. As a result of its significant agricultural activities, the
province has developed an agricultural machinery industry. The province manufactures
about 50% of Argentine agricultural equipment, mainly manually operated equipment.
Also items such as silos milking machines and crushing equipment is manufactured in
the province.
* Steel. The province is home to two steel factories belonging to Acindar and Sipar. The
production is of non-flat items used in the construction industry. For 1999, the
province produced 917,948 tons of steel.
*  Chemicals and Petrochemicals. In the past, the chemical and petrochemical industry
played a more significant role in the provincial economy. Currently, various plants are
located in the province (ICI, BASF, and Dow, as well as local companies like Resinfor
Metanol).
*  Ceramics. The province produces ceramic tiles for floors and roofs, as well as a
porcelain factory.



Annex F-Page 4 of 11
*  Furniture. The province has a significant furniture industry, for both high end products
and standard items. Due to the stagnant domestic economy, the sales for high end
products have fallen, and standard products are forced to compete with imports
primarily from Brazil.
*  Textiles and Footwear. The province's textile industry is changing its focus from
production (much is being outsourced) to design and distribution and
commercialization. In terms of footwear, small family run companies produces leather
shoes. The province cites dumping (from Asia and other Latin American countries),
and corruption in customs as problems for these industries.
Development Constraints
9.    Beyond the influenced of the current downturn, the private sector in Santa Fe
suffers to one degree or another from largely the same limitations found throughout
Argentina, including access to financing, infrastructure, distortionary taxes, a cumbersome
public sector, and a weak judiciary.
10.   Financing. The financial system is underdeveloped in Santa Fe. The province is
underbanked, with only 20-25% of PBI held in financial assets. In spite of the liquidity in
the Argentine financial system at the present time, credit continues to be prohibitively
expensive and only of a short-term nature, especially for SMEs.
11.   Companies usually take on short term rolling credit lines with relatively high
interest rates for lack of other options. In addition, banks usually require loans to be
secured by a mortgage for a multiple of the value of the loan. Notary fees and provincial
taxes for mortgages make transactions prohibitively expensive for many companies. For
exarnple, notary fees are around 2% the value of the mortgage, and another approximately
2% at the time of dissolution of the mortgage. In addition, the province levies a 1-2% tax
on the value of the mortgage. As most credit is granted on a short-term basis, the impact on
the cost of capital can be substantial. For example, a one-year loan at 16%, the best rate an
SME can currently access, would result in an effective rate of 22%, and increase of 37% in
the cost of capital. This increase in the cost of capital for longer term loans and rolling
credit lines is not as significant, but credit for over three years is unavailable in the province
and there is no guarantee for SMEs that their credit lines will be renewed. In the absence of
access to credit from commercial banks, companies may take high interest loans from
"mutuals", or non-profit financial institutions that are outside of the Central Bank's domain.
In Santa Fe, mutuals do about US$600 million of business each year.
12.   Another issue putting SMEs at a disadvantage in terms of their capital costs is the
national tax on interest payments on bank financing, which is usually the only source of
external funding accessible to SMEs. Alternative methods of financing, such as negotiable
securities, an instrument available only for larger corporations, do not pay this tax.



Annex F-Page 5 of 11
13.  In addition, the province is in the process of changing its provincial development
bank (Corporacion Economica Financiera) from a lending institution to an advisory
institution that would promote investments, rate companies and aid companies in the search
for financing and technical partners. Santa Fe privatized the provincial bank, which is now
called the Nuevo Banco de Santa Fe. The new operator is Banco General de Negocios
("BGN", a local wholesale commercial bank). BGN claims that beyond performing a
normal portfolio restructuring after taking control of the provincial bank, access to credit by
SMEs has not been negatively impacted by the privatization. A recent line of credit to the
bank for $20 million provide by the IFC is designed to support SMEs with investment
credits and would support further business development in this area.
14.   Infrastructure and Services. The major production centers are well served by the
transportation network, consisting of river ports, roads, airports and railway. However, the
local infrastructure is not very well integrated. Currently, the only point in the province
where cargo can be transferred from truck to railway is at the port. In addition, the
province suffers from a lack of adequate maintenance of the road network. This network of
approximately 13,000 km, with about 22% paved, represents an asset valued at about $1.5
billion, but receives a rather modest 0.7 percent of its value to its preservation. Site visits
confirm that the most commonly observed deficiencies on the paved network are lack of
cracks sealing, pothole patching and the poor condition of road safety equipment including
horizontal marking and vertical signs. The optimum allocation level for the entire network
would be about US$ 40 to 45 million to be compared to the actual US$ 10 million spent.
15.   The supply and price of power, gas and water are competitive in Santa Fe vis-a-vis
most other provinces, particularly for the larger industrial consumers. The strategy of the
province is to continue with a process of privatization in order to increase coverage and
efficiency. In the short run these would provide benefits for smaller size consumers and
those in more isolated areas. The water company, which was concessioned several years
ago and is operated by Lyonnaise des Eaux, benefited from support under the Bank's
Second Water Supply Project and is currently a client of the IFC. The power company is
now scheduled for privatization and expected efficiency gains would be translated into
lower tariffs for smaller size consumers. The privatization would also result in substantial
resources for the province (as much as $700 million), which by law would be allocated as
follows:
- Fund to subsidize interest rates for SMEs
- Fund for provincial infrastructure (50% of the total)
- Fund for municipalities and communes
- Anti-crisis fund.
16.   Regulatory Burdens. Onerous compliance costs are recognized as contributing to
the growth of the informal sector in Argentina, although it is also true that such businesses
benefit from avoiding taxes and labor (but cannot access the bank loans). While many of
these barriers are national in nature, a survey of several local firms suggests that municipal
and provincial requirements may present at least 20 steps for registering a business. At the
same time, national labor regulations to register an employee in Argentina require 16
different forns must be provided. Much of the information is repetitive, and
inconsistencies are created. Each time an employee is registered, the company, the



Annex F-Page 6 of 11
employee and the employee's family are all evaluated from scratch. The process is
impossible to control, which leads to inefficient inspections by the authorities. As a result,
according to the national survey, the cost of the registration process for companies is high
(1% of the employee's salary for companies with over 100 employees), especially for
SMES (6-7% of the employee's salary for a company with 1-5 employees, and 3-4% for
companies with 6-40 employees). The high cost of registration leads to a substantial
amount of black market employment. Almost 40% of company employees are not
registered, while the figure is a staggering 73% for self-employed individuals and 89% for
SMEs with 1-50 employees.
17.   Local Taxes. The main provincial taxes are similar to those found in other
provinces and include:
* Property tax - ranges on a scale from a minimum fixed fee of $40 to a maximum of
$850,000, depending on the value and location of the property.
* Tumover tax (Ingresos Brutos) - standard rate of 3.5% of gross income, with
preferential rates for certain sectors, such as agriculture 1%, industry and construction
1.5%, agricultural services 2.5%, and commerce 2.8%. A rate of 4.1% applies to
companies that sell directly to the public.
* Stamp tax - charged in varying amounts, normally fractions of a percent, on every
contract and official document undertaken in the province, as well as on transactions on
the provincial grain market. The most notable example is the stamp tax on real estate
transactions, which ranges from 1% of the value to a fixed fee of $2,250 plus 2.5% of
the property value (with a cap of $100,000).
* Labor tax - a special payroll tax on labor, leveled at 3% of wages, is applied in the
province.
* Vehicle tax - ranges from 0.5% for vehicles used in public transportation, 1.5% for
trucks and agricultural vehicles, and 2% for all other vehicles.
Local Government Programs
18.   The province also attempts to promote private sector development, and SMEs in
particular, through the Ministry of Production (MAGIC), which has five main objectives:
to strengthen productive enterprises; to position the province's products in Argentina and
worldwide; to develop markets for SMEs; to develop infrastructure for the private sector;
and to decentralize municipalities. For 1998, MAGIC's budget was US$32 million, with a
staff of 670, the majority of which are technical and administrative staff. In addition,
MAGIC has assisted in the creation of 14 sectorial counsels comprised of representatives
from the private sector, universities and technological centers. MAGIC's private sector
agenda is described below.



Annex F-Page 7 of 11
19.   Tax Breaks. As of 1999, certain industries and construction companies are exempt
from the provincial turnover tax, which implies an estimated fiscal cost of approximately
US$27 million to the province. In addition, MAGIC recently proposed a package of tax
cuts, whereby industrial ventures and SMEs that undertake capital investment programs
would be reimbursed 50% of their turnover tax. Additionally, companies that are
considered to be major employers could also be exempt from the provincial payroll tax and
the turnover tax.
20.   Increase the stock of cattle. Grazing is the primary method used to fatten cattle in
Argentina. However, in Santa Fe grazing has not sufficed to maintain the stock of cattle,
which has fallen due to climatic factors. In addition, Argentine eating habits have changed,
and consumers demand relatively more veal products, which has also contributed to the
lower stock of cattle. MAGIC is working on a program to increase the province's stock by
1.5 million head of cattle, or approximately 20% of the current stock. MAGIC has also
worked diligently to irradicate bovine disease in the province in order to promote beef
exports. On a related note, MAGIC is also promoting an increase in the production of pork,
and is working to irradicate porcine disease.
21.   Develop forestry industry. In addition to the national promotional regime for
forestry products, Santa Fe decided to support the forestry industry at the provincial level as
well for three main reasons:
-  The province is apt for forestry plantations in terms of its land and climate. Three
particle board plants, as well as several forestry plantations, are already located in the
province, which also has a significant furniture industry that could stand to benefit from
lower costs that the proximity to raw materials could provide;
*  The use of economical pre-fabricated houses that are based on a wood frame, rather
than the traditional Argentine cement structure, is increasing in the local construction
industry. The Santa Fe forestry industry could provide the timber or even develop pre-
fabs for this market; and
*  By promoting the development of the forestry industry, MAGIC also plans to capture
additional benefits for the province from "green bonds". The ministry has created an
office for climate change, whose function is to certify plantations that are suitable for
participating in the bond program.
22.   The provincial government has created a "Forestry Fund" which provides a
preferential interest rate equivalent to prime rate for a period of ten years for projects that
qualify under guidelines established by MAGIC. MAGIC defined the species of tree that
can be planted (pine, eucalyptus, and alamo) and its planting conditions, as well as the cost
structure per hectare. As a result of this promotional regime, from 1996 to 1998, a total of
8,260 has were forested, producers increased to 500, and 9,500 jobs were created.
23.   Promotion of sustainable technology for agriculture. In order to prevent erosion
and soil degradation, the province grants a tax break of up to 40% of the property tax over a



Annex F-Page 8 of 11
five-year period to producers who employ sustainable agricultural technology. The most
common form of sustainable technology used in the province is direct seeding, which
captures carbon in the topsoil. Direct seeding uses an accurate tractor-like machine, which
can plant 1,500 hectares per year on average. Due to its accuracy, direct planting increases
the surface area that can be planted. Each machine costs about $ 100,000, and those smaller
organizations that cannot purchase the machines, various outsourcing companies are
available for planting and charge on average $1 8-20 per hectare. With the implementation
of direct seeding, harvests have doubled in the past ten years.
24.   Support for biotechnology. MAGIC has a program for the classification and
certification of genetically modified seeds for use in the province. Genetically altered seeds
can significantly lower certain production costs (such as pesticides) since the seeds are
modified to yield more resistant crops. MAGIC believes that the use of genetically
modified species will help keep its agricultural sector competitive. In order to leverage the
province's existing seed production industry as well as its university system, MAGIC is
promoting research in second generation genetically modified seeds (or seeds that modify
nutritional value of products). The ministry is developing departments of biotechnology at
three different institutions of higher learning to develop human resources for the
biotechnology industry.
25.   Support for "non-traditional" sectors. MAGIC provides assistance for the
development of non-traditional agricultural activities, normally in the form of technical
support to producer associations in the classification and certification of products. Such
non-traditional sectors encompass 200 producers, in areas such as wild game and
mushrooms. In addition, the province is actively supporting the development of fish
farming, thereby hoping to take advantage of the Rio Parana which runs through the
province for 700 kilometers. MAGIC has identified several areas in the river apt for such
activities, as well as various native species of fish (and one non-native species) that could
be raised.
26.   Promotion of tourism. Although the Rio Parana already attracts a certain amount
of tourists, MAGIC is considering ways to support local tourism. As the province has
relatively few historic attractions, the ministry's idea is to attract weekend visitors from
neighboring provinces for "agrotourism", or trips to estancias, fishing trips, etc.
27.   Incentives for use of agro-energy. Santa Fe consumes about 10% of liquid fuel
used in Argentina. However, the province has no oil reserves. As a result, the province is
promoting the use of alternative energy sources, in particular biodiesel. Biodiesel uses
inputs readily available in Santa Fe, such as crude edible oil and alcohols which can be
obtained from grains. To date, the province has a programn for the agricultural industry to
exchange traditional oil for biodiesel, and is negotiating with the federal government to
achieve a tax break for the use of biodiesel.
28.   Promotion of provincial sales and exports. MAGIC actively promotes provincial
exports, visiting banks, international agencies and consulting firms around the world,
encouraging trade mission to and FDI in the province, and distributing detailed promotional
materials about Santa Fe's exports. From 1996 to 1999, MAGIC organized and contributed



Annex F-Page 9 of 11
finance towards the participation of almost 2,000 local companies in over 70 regional,
national and international trade fairs. As a result, Santa Fe's population of exporters
increased from 498 in 1996 to 641 in 1998, and exports for the three-year period totaled
US$13 million. For 1998, Santa Fe's exports comprised 17% of the country's total exports.
29.   Development of rural change program. In order to improve the productivity of
small agricultural producers, the province provides technical assistance as well as training.
The program requires a second step to reinforce management and marketing practices. As
of 1999, about 230 producers have participated in the program which at that date had
received contributions of US$2 million from the province.
30.   Technical assistance and training programs. MAGIC provides technical
assistance and quality control training to manufacturing facilities, from which a total of 991
companies (2,105 individuals) have benefited over the past three years. Cooperatives also
receive specific training designed to up-date technology and management practices, in
which 570 companies have participated. In addition, 520 businessmen and designers have
been united by MAGIC in a training program to improve industrial design in the province.
From 1997 to 1999, about 12,500 companies received training in thirteen different areas.
31.   Regimen of industrial incentives. The industrial promotion regime, consisting of
tax breaks and industrial parks, applies to new ventures as well as to the expansion of
existing ventures. From 1996 to 1999 this regime implied a fiscal cost of almost US$20
million to the Government of Santa Fe.
Conclusions and Recommendations
32.   The private sector in Santa Fe suffers from largely the same limitations found
throughout Argentina, including access to financing, infrastructure, distortionary taxes, a
cumbersome public sector, and a weak judiciary. While many of these constraints are
national in nature, there are clearly areas that would benefit from local actions.
33.   Financing: Although the province's intention to use part of the funds to subsidize
interest rates will lower costs for the provincial companies that receive such loans, this may
not be the most efficient use of the funds. This will certainly improve the situation of
enterprises that already have access to credit, but it will do nothing for those companies
lacking in credit. Reductions in certain taxes and levies, such as the 3% payroll tax and the
provincial levy of 1-2% on mortgages used as collateral for loans, would be more efficient
uses of funds by lowering the costs of labor and capital for all enterprises.
34.   Since much of Santa Fe's industrial and agricultural production is concentrated in
commodity type products, the use of financial instruments to mitigate the effects of major
swings in commodity prices, such as hedging, would be beneficial. However, this would
only ensure against short-term price volatility and would not address the decline in terms of
trade that Santa Fe's commodities have been facing.



Annex F-Page IO of II
35.   Taxes: The distortionary affects of provincial taxes for turnover (a disincentive for
production linkages between firms) and the stamp tax for transactions (inhibiting land
markets and promoting informal transactions) are well known in Argentina. Efforts were
made in the early 1 990s by the Federal government to promote changes in local taxation.
The Pacto Fiscal of 1993 called for the abolishment of both these particular taxes. In return
for guaranteed floors in federal transfers many provinces, including Santa Fe, were induced
to lower turnover tax rates, particularly for primary production. The next step, the creation
of local sales or VAT taxes to piggyback on the national VAT was never introduced.
While further reductions in these taxes are recommended, this should only be undertaken
cautiously in light of the fiscal situation. The current strategy of attempting to target tax
breaks for certain industries should be reviewed and perhaps a more general reduction
pursued to avoid problems in targeting and administrative costs. The property tax is a good
candidate for increasing local resource mobilization and benefits from the potential to
increase equity. The province has updated its cadaster and tax administration, and has
begun efforts to increase the tax yield. Under the PRL, it is also committed to gradually
reducing a 3 percent tpayroll tax on labor.
36.   Infrastructure: Improving coordination of provincial infrastructure would enable
the province's industrial and agricultural base to transport products more efficiently.
Currently, the only point in the province where cargo can be transferred from truck to
railway is at the port. Existing railways, roads and ports could be further integrated to
reduce costs and save time for transportation of products. In terrns of financing such
ventures, half of the funds received from the privatization of the provincial electricity
company are destined to a provincial infrastructure fund. A separate and more complex
issue that influences the costs to Santa Fe's industry is the state of the roads and available
infrastructure in other provinces to which the province ships products.
37.   Finally, it is recommended that the province gradually build up maintenance
spending on the road network from $10 million to $20 million over the next 2 years,
building it up to $40 million within a 5-year period. Although the necessary budget
allocation may be small in relative terms, it can generate considerable savings for the
community of road users. A rough calculation indicates that rising the budget level from
the current $10 million to $ 40 million a year would yield disproportionately high annual
benefits in the order of nearly $400 million in vehicle operating costs.
38.   Administrative Burden: The province should review requirements for registering
firms with the idea of streamlining procedures. While a weak judiciary clearly suffers from
deeper-rooted issues regarding independence they need to be overcome, streamlining of
procedures and modernization could help in reducing the time of proceedings. Under the
PRL, the province is committed to implementing a modernization program.
39.   Provincial Programs: MAGIC is involved in a wide range of promotional
activities that have increased over the years. While most appear to be targeted at important
sectors for the province a rigorous review of their effectiveness would benefits MAGIC in
ensuring that its limited resources are well allocated. It might also review the possibilities
of stepping up activities in support of poverty alleviation in support of the Secretary for
Community Production. MAGIC has set up a network of municipal offices that might be



Annex F-Page 11 of 11
useful in this regard (Santa Fe is divided into 44 municipalities, each of which has a
municipal office of production).






Annex G-Page 1 of 7
Argentina
Santa Fe Provincial Reform Loan
Social Impact Assessment and Social Development Strategy
1.   The proposed reforms are not expected to cause major social impacts though in the
case of the pension reform and EPE privatization mitigation measures should be
incorporated to address identified social impacts.  Specific recommendations to
incorporate a more pro-active equity approach in the case of education and health reforms
have been prepared. Moreover, a comprehensive Social Development Strategy has been
outlined to address identified social risks and new challenges and to guide preparing
social protection programs. Background, main findings and recommendations from the
Social Impact Assessment are summarized below. A whole report is included in the
project's files.
Background
2.   Lessons learnt from  previous PRL experiences indicate that a participatory
approach enhances legitimacy of the reforms and improves its implementation and
sustainability. Under this line of action, a social impact assessment was implemented to
assess socioeconomic conditions affecting poor population and eliciting their views about
social risks to be taken into account in project design. This process will allow
incorporating into Santa Fe provincial reform specific tools to mitigate impacts and social
risks, promote equity and poverty reduction.
Objectives
3.   The objectives of this social impact assessment are: (i) to assess social risks that
might result from the proposed reforms; (ii) to identify vulnerable population to better
target social programs; (iii) to promote the reforms under a participatory approach to brig
into the effort social capital; and (iv) to provide guidance for institutions involved to
improve their response to social issues.
Social Risks and New Challenges
4.   The socioeconomic situation of Santa Fe has been changing dramatically in the last
decade opening new opportunities for development and overall increases in welfare, but
it the transition has also brought to light the need enhance labor skills to reduce poverty
and improve equity. In addition, increases in the population at risks has uncovered the
weakness of the exiting framework for social protection.
* Economic Re-Structuring. To face external competition and globalization many local
industries have successfully transformed while others have been closed, sometimes
provoking the decline of formerly flourishing cities and their middle class population.
Santa Fe and Rosario are the most critical examples of industrial loss though smaller
cities reliant on export agriculture products and agribusiness activities have also been



Annex G-Page 2 of 7
undergoing a difficult transition, as changes in development opportunities associated
with both the general opening of the economy and the MERCOSUR have recently
been coupled with declines in commodity prices. For example, during the 1996-1999
period primary product exports from Santa Fe dropped 25% in total value , while
some manufactures like transport materials increased dramatically and others such as
machinery and electric materials have declined more than 10%.1 This situation
aggravated by a series of consecutive external shocks and sluggish growth affecting
Argentina has also had an impact on Santa Fe, which is one of the provinces where
unemployment has reached higher levels.
* Unemployment. Unemployment, which was on average 6.9% for the Province in
1991, has fluctuated between 14-20% during the 1990s. In the year 2000 it stood at
16.1 %, compared to a national average of 15.7%, reaching 18.5% in the Rosario
metro area2. Additionally, according to some estimates about 164 000 (28% of the
labor force)3 is self-employed in the metropolitan areas of Gran Santa Fe and Rosario,
thus adding to the instability of the labor force.
* The New Poor. Unemployment has hit basically heads of households (70%), with
serious social and economic consequences for families. In the case of Rosario4, 50%
of the unemployed reported no income and 27% have a monthly income equal or less
than $200. Moreover, the socioeconomic profile of this group suggests serious
constrain for reemployment: 66% have been looking job for more than a year. Two-
thirds of the unemployed had educational levels of only primary education or less;
one-third were 40-49 years old and 28% older (50-59 years). Similar situation
prevails in the city of Santa Fe. This group of middle-aged people with low skills are
having a dificult time in the new competitive open economy. "Men lose their dignity"
was a common expression used in relation to the affects of this situation. Many also
mentioned an increase in the number of family disintegration, men leaving their
family back, and domestic violence, as confirmed by the Gender Analysis.
* Poor Rural Population. The rural population at around 13% is relatively small, but as
might be expected it includes a high level of people not meeting their basic needs (the
NBI measure includes such things as adequate housing and access infrastructure and
services). There are no reliable estimates of rural poverty, but with decreasing
income from agriculture exports and recent major episodes of flooding resulting in
the loss of assets and working capital, unemployment is likely to have increased
stimulating the migration of the better skilled and young population.
* Increased Vulnerability. NBI population has been estimated in 475,000 persons,
17.6% of the total, although this estimate is based on the 1991 survey. More recent
'INDEC Programa de Informaci6n Estadistica y Apoyo a los Municipios.
2 IPEC Data for the Province; IDEC estimates for Rosario and Santa Fe.
3 IPEC Monthly Labor Market Report, October 2000
4Indicators elaborated with EPH Data.



Annex G-Page 3 of 7
sampling of this population by the Santa Fe Sistema de Informacion Social (SIS)5
indicates that in the year 2000 around one-third of the heads of NBI households were
unemployed, half of whom had a per capita monthly income of less than $30 (i.e., not
enough to afford the basic consumption basket. As a result of perceived deterioration
conditions among NBI population, and the "new poor" phenomenon, vulnerability of
some segments of population has increased mainly among women, young people and
the elderly. According to available information6 in 2000, 29% of teenagers in NBI
households did not study or work while 34.7 % of the 18,757 young persons between
18-24 years old was in the same situation. According with the same source, of the
2,563 persons over 60 years old registered, almost 64% were defined at risk.
* Social Unrest. As with many other provinces, with the sustained economic downturn,
Santa Fe has been experiencing increased social unrest. In Rosario it is common to
come upon thunderous demonstrations and to see around the city worker picketing
next to closed businesses. Violence has been increasing, particularly among young
people. Delinquency rate has increases from 198,3 in 1991 to 234.2 in 19957.
* Partnerships and Social Capital. On the positive side, partnerships between private-
public sectors and workers have developed innovative initiatives to reduce the impact
of economic re-structuring. Examples of this are some modernized industries in
Rafaela and the rescue of Mocovi Rice Mill in San Javier now handled by its workers
Proposed Social Development Strategy
5. The PRL presents an opportunity not only to address the possible social impacts of
agreed reforms, but also to begin addressing the new challenges and risks identified and
promote poverty alleviation efforts within a sound fiscal framework. In additional to
proposed mitigation measures to address possible social impacts resulting from the
pension reform and privatization of EPE. A series of recommendations within the
framework of a proposed Social Development Strategy were developed to assist in the
design and preparation of the PRL by enhancing the effectiveness of the reforms through
a participatory approach and further promoting equity towards poverty reduction.
Although not all the proposed actions were subsequently incorporated fully in the
operation itself, they provide the Province an initial guidepost for framing future possible
activities:
* Economic recovery, through focus selected public sector interventions building the
climate for investment and growth for poverty reduction; and
* Promoting Equity, through a comprehensive social protection interventions targeting
vulnerable population and promoting productivity enhancement initiatives for
sustainable self-development and social capital strengthening.
5 Gobierno de Santa Fe: Secretaria de Estado de Promoci6n Comunitaria: Sistema de Informacion Social
Registro Unico de Beneficiarios has registered 40% of NBI population comprising 48,095 households with
217,689 members.
6 Sistema de Informacion Social (SIS) Sample at November 2000.
7IPEC; Delinquency rates estimates ratio of crime per 10,000 inhabitants.



Annex G-Page 4 of 7
6.   Economic Recovery. To promote economic recovery a more pro-active public
sector intervention could address social risks and build the climate for investment and
growth towards poverty reduction. Recommended interventions comprise: (i) selective
investments on infrastructure targeting areas with potential to expand export
competitiveness; (ii) investment and technical assistance for rural areas recovering
competitiveness; (iii) selective and more efficient support of small and medium-sized
enterprises (PyMEs); and, (iv) reducing the impact of economic restructuring through
selective cofinancing and technical assistance and promoting joint ventures for rescuing
economic activities of regional importance. In addition, a more active deregulation
process to promote micro-business incorporating into the formal sector and reducing the
obstacles to accessing to credit is critical.
7.   Promoting Equity. Promoting equity should be a priority of social sector reforms.
In the case of education this approach includes: (i) support for poor students enrolling and
completing EGBS and/or Polimodal cycle: (ii) development of education alternatives
providing skills for employment opportunities and (iii) assess public transfers to private
schools from an equity point of view. In regard to Health the main recommendations are:
(i) ensuring coverage of poor and vulnerable population, particularly in rural areas; (ii)
implementing programs to specifically reduce incidence of identified infectious diseases
(TB, AIDS, "mal de chagas"); (iii) broadly implementing a health reproductive program.
A public awareness campaign should complement these efforts. Both sectors should
design and implement a participatory monitoring and evaluation system to incorporate
beneficiaries feed back to improve responsiveness and quality. In the case of Social
Protection the main recommendation is to prioritize productivity enhancement programs,
in particular PMSP redesigned as a three-fold program to support identified social groups
carrying out productive initiatives, to be implemented under a gender approach. A
comprehensive institutional strengthening program is required for SEPC to carry out a
more relevant role in social protection.
8.   This Social Development Strategy8 would integrate ongoing efforts of Santa Fe and
municipal governments, and expansion of social protection efforts, which presently
receive less than 3% of the provincial budget. Resources from the Compromiso Federal
and privatization proceeds, as well as sector savings would be allocated to finance this
effort.
Impact Mitigation Measures
9.   Pensions. Public employee pension have become a burden that might be hindering
government capacity to intervene in other social sectors thus it has become a priority to
regain financial stability. To address this issue the provincial government is discussing
8 This initiative fits within the Plan Social under the SEPC proposed by Government to Santa Fe
Legislature on May 2000.



Annex G-Page 5 of 7
with the Federal Government on a harmonization process to incorporate some of the
reforms already implemented at the national level into the provincial system. To mitigate
social impacts the proposed pension reform would incorporate in the process: (i) a study
to identify population affected by the reforms through a beneficiary assessment to be
carried out under a gender approach; and, (ii) the design and implementation, of
mitigation measures if necessary.
10. EPE Privatization. Discussions on EPE privatization foresee as a positive outcome
a possible tariff reduction if productivity and performance improvements are achieved.
However, because extremely high staff cost downsizing is likley to affect a large part of
the estimated 4,000 employees. To mitigate these impacts the privatization process
should include: (i) compensation packages comprising severance payment, training and
support to find alternative jobs; (ii) sequenced downsizing to avoid a shock on local
economy; (iii) ensure that consumers benefit from the rationalization process through
reduced tariffs and/or improved quality; (iv) establishing a tariff category specific to
dispersed customers in the tariff schedule; and (v) strengthening of regulatory agencies
regarding consumer protection, quality of service, tariff regulation, and environment
impact mitigation. Because privatization is always controversial, a public information
campaign explaining its advantages in the case of EPE is also recommended.



Annex G-Page 6 of 7
Social Development Program
Action Line    Activities Recommended                                        Project
Component
Selective investments on infrastructure to develop areas with
Infrastructure to    potential to expand export competitiveness and develop new
promote           market opportunities, thus creating temporary and long term
development       employment;
1. Public
Investment program for rural areas recovering competitiveness    Finance and
Addressing rural   by: (i) transforming existing agricultural pattern to higher value    Administration
poverty           crops; (ii) facilitating integration with industry to produce more
value added exports and agribusiness development taking into
account international trends; (iii) cofmancing technical assistance  1.1 Fiscal
to increase productivity; and (iv) promoting credit opportunities.   Targets
Supporting        Selective and more efficient support of PYMES within the
PYMES             framework of the ongoing restructuring of Santa Fe's economy.
Positive Economic  Selective cofmancing and technical assistance to promote joint
Restructuring     ventures rescuing economic activities of regional importance.
Deregulation to   Continuation of deregulation process and better coordination of
promote business   national, provincial & municipal regulations to avoid overlapping
development       and facilitating new investments and initiatives.         1.2 Tax Reform
and
Formal Sector     Simplification of procedures and incentives for micro-business    Administration
Promotion         moving into the formal sector and accessing credit.
il_Wjy|                                                   ________ ,    ,
Improved          To carry out beneficiary assessment of SEPC's assistance
Responsiveness in  programs to define priorities in resources allocation. Assessing
Social Assistance   PASS sustainability and possible negative side effects and
alternatives for its improved effectiveness.
Productivity      To prioritize productivity enhancement strategy through more
Enhancement and   focused and better targeting interventions for which the following
Social Capital    adjustments are recommended: (a) to redesign PMSP as a three-
Development       fold program to support identified social groups carrying out
productive initiatives; (b) to modify the ongoing Special Training
program to better target address skill improvement needs of
unemployed young people; and (c) to modify and expand
community-based productive initiatives program to focus on the
development of social capital through in-service initiatives.
1.3 Social
Productive Enhancement Pilots. These initiatives would be tested  Protection
trough pilots financed with resources from the Compromiso
Federal and proceeds from EPE privatization.
Gender Equity     Social Protection strategy should incorporate a gender approach
to better respond to women demand and support their effort to
incorporate their families into the process. This approach can
help to balance power within the families and address integrally
family needs to benefit all its members.



Annex G-Page 7 of 7
SEPC Institutional  To support SEPC institutional strengthening to better managed
Strengthening     the proposed social protection strategy through technical
assistance, training and organization improvement.
SEPC should continues its decentralization efforts building
partnerships with municipalities and local organizations such as
Regional Development Associations (Asociaciones Regionales
de Desarrollo) that have proved to be successful.
To incorporate incentives for poor students enrolling and
Increasing        graduating from EGBs, Polimodal, and tertiary level (grants)  2. Education
opportunities for   Development of alternative education options and new curricula   Reform
poor youth       to enhance employment opportunities of poor young people.
(Alternative institutional delivery options special training,
flexible curricula, etc.)                                2.1. Educational
Assessing         To evaluate the whole subsidy system under equity criteria  Expenditure
subsidies to      assessing its effectiveness in achieving education goals for the
private schools.    majority and integrating criteria to enhance enrollment of low-
income students.
Ownership and                                                               2.2 Improvement
empowerment to    To integrate a participatory approach including parents and  of Institutional
enhance           students in the monitor and evaluation of reform actions.  Management.
sustainability
To ensure coverage of poor and vulnerable population     3. Health Reform
particularly in rural areas.                             3.1. Primary
Improving poor    To introduce a gender approach on service delivery to improve    strengthening.
population health   quality (health reproductive programs and accident treatment)  gt g.
To develop special programs on highly transmittable diseases  20 and 3 level
such as AIDS, tuberculosis and mal de chagas.            improvement.
Establishment of an Information System to improve management
Ownership and     of the health sector infrastructure, biomedical equipment,  3.3 Health
empowerment to   processes, and human resources.                            Ministry's
enhance           Implementation of a participatory Monitoring and Evaluation  regulatory role
sustainability    System to provide better quality feedback and promote higher  Strengthening
ownership.
The proposed pension reform would incorporate the study of the
Pension reform    possible social impact arising from the ongoing harmonization
under equity      process. The study should include: (i) a beneficiary assessment to
principles.      identify vulnerable groups under a gender approach; (ii) the
design and implementation, if necessary, of mitigation measures;
and (iii) an equity approach to address the issue of population
lacking protection.
To design and include in privatization process mitigation  1.4 Financial
measures comprising: (i) mechanisms to ensure that productivity   Management
Privatization of    gains benefit consumer through reduced tariffs and improved
Public Electricity   quality service; (ii) establishment of a tariff category specific to
Distribution      dispersed customers in the tariff schedule; (ii) minimizing
Enterprise (EPE)   employment severance pausing cuts to avoid a sudden
promoting broad    unemployment shock; (iii) provision of a compensation package
benefits.         comprising severance payment, training and support to facilitate
reinsertion in labor force; and (iv) strengthening of regulatory
agencies regarding consumer protection, quality of service, tariff
regulation, and environmental impact mitigation.






Annex H-Page 1 of 6
Argentina
Santa Fe Provincial Reform Loan
Institutional Capacity
Main Findings and Recommendations
1.    The social service reforms under the proposed operation are generally well grounded
within existing institutional capabilities of the Ministries of Education and Health, which
are being strengthened further by activities initiated during preparation. In the case of
education, a major institutional strengthening program is being carried-out first, to provide
the necessary capacity and ownership for implementing policy reforms, and to define
quantitative reform goals. Also, the studies being conducted within the reform context,
would facilitate the design of feasible institutional arrangements for the reform
implementation. In the case of health, both the efforts being implemented to modernize the
Ministry of Health management and inclusion of institutional arrangements for the different
phases of reforms, guarantee a successful implementation of the health reforms. Moreover,
the new management style of the Minister of Health facilitates the support of different
actors of the system to the reform. In addition, both ministries have identified their needs
of technical assistance and are in the process of securing its financing. On the other hand,
the institutional assessment of the Secretary for Community Protection (SEPC) found that it
is necessary to carry-out an institutional strengthening program to fortify the SEPC
capacities on resource-allocation and impact evaluation, so as maintain and capitalize the
results achieved by the SEPC in policy formulation for combating poverty.
Education
2.    The strategy followed by the PRL in the case of education is to build institutional
capability at the Ministry of Education while implementing the reform. This strategy aims
at achieving a better formulation of both reform goals and institutional arrangements
consonant with the developing capacities of the Ministry. As a result, better opportunities
for achieving legitimacy from crucial actors (e.g.. MOE staff, teachers) could be obtained,
which would also have positive impacts on the reform ownership and sustainability. To
enhance the MOE institutional capacity, a major institutional strengthening program
(PRODISE) is under implementation to provide the necessary instruments, skills and
information to identify and correct the main focus of inefficiencies and inequities in
management and service delivery. For example, the program will permit the generation of
base line data to assess the level of efficiency and equity in operations and to set
quantitative targets. Also, the PRODISE through the SIGAE (School Management and
Administration System) project will generate valuable information on school resource
allocation and performance planning tools that could enhance the design of the reform
components such as the quality-enhancement policies.
3.   In addition, the PRODISE will provide the MOE with accurate information and
enhanced skills to discuss and try-out institutional arrangements options consonant with the



Annex H-Page 2 of 6
reforn objectives. Among possible options to be analyzed and discussed are, inter-alia: (i)
non-pecuniary incentive mechanisms (e.g., dissemination of best practices in using the
different feedback information component of the Operativos de Evaluacion) to promote the
utilization of evaluation feedback; (ii) a monetary incentive to promote closer links between
research and instruction; and (iii) a per-capita-based distribution formula for the allocation
of subsidies to private schools to increase enrollment and equity. Likewise, this approach
will provide better opportunities to analyze mechanisms aimed at enhancing the feasibility
and sustainability of the reform such as the inclusion of participatory mechanisms in the
reform phases of implementation and monitoring. However, to facilitate the achievement
of reform objectives of enhancing efficiency and responsiveness in the delivery of the
education services, ex-ante performance indicators should be developed. These indicators
would help to develop a joint vision for the purpose of and realistic expectations for the
reforrm outcomes and impact.
4.     To ensure the existence of adequate resources for program implementation, the
MOE has identified the needs of technical assistance, its costs, and other outlays related to
the implementation of the reform components. So far, the Ministry's estimation for
technical assistance is around $350,000 and for implementation is around $3,800,000 or
4,600,000 if the resources from Nation are not available (see table below). The source of
financing of the expenditures related to implementation will be mainly from savings to be
obtained by the consolidation efforts and from efficiency gains.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE To IMPLEMENT EDUCATION REFORMS
Reform Component                           Second Tranche    Third Tranche
(Pesos)            (Pesos)
Education Expenditure                      - 60,000            - 24,000
Improvement in Humait Resource Management:
- Counterpart for TA from Sector Investments  - 150,000
Projects (PRODYMES).
- Resources for Implementation for         - 224,000           - 144,000
Decentralization, SAHR & SIGAE Projects.
Improvement in School Quality:
- TA for the design of the external monitoring  - 30,000       - 15,000
methodology and training modules.
- Implementation of External Monitoring    - 73,500             - 75,000
Reform of Teacher Training Institutes:
- TA for the design of the Research Program  - 24,000          - 24,000
- Implementation of the Curricular Designs,                    - 12,000
Financing of Research Projects & Training
Subsidies to Private Schools
- TA for Institutional Strengthening of the Unit    - 64,000   - 32,000
- Implementation of Audit Review           - 20,000            - 10,000
Total
- Technical Assistance                     - 328,000            95,000
- Implementation outlays                   - 317,500            241,000
Health



Annex H-Page 3 of 6
5.     The institutional assessment found that the Ministry of Health has adequate
institutional capability to carry-out the reforms. In the first place, the reform is part of an
integral modernization plan, led by the Minister's office, to improve the MOH's
performance in the provision and financing of health care. This plan introduces a new
client-oriented management approach that aims at enhancing the planning and resolution
capacity of the MOH, and includes among other elements: the setting of quantitative targets
on specific health outcomes (i.e., infant mortality rates), the decentralization of decision-
making and provision of management tools (e.g., management information systems) to
direct providers, the introduction of modern management and service delivery techniques
including the utilization of modern technology (e.g., telemedicine); and the improvement of
communication channels with service providers, including those managed by
municipalities. Second, ownership for the reform is being built by involving an intra-sector
team of MOH's key staff and of officers from other organizations of the health system
(e.g., the director of the Obra Social Provincial and the coordinator of the national
maternal-child programs (PROMIN) in the preparation and implementation of the reform.
6.     The mission found adequate the institutional arrangements and accountability
mechanisms contemplated for the different stages of the reform, which would play a key
role in the achievement of the desired reform impacts as they enhance the reform feasibility
and sustainability. As shown in the table below, they would provide incentives to health
providers and staff to accept and follow the new model of health care and financing. Other
arrangements will introduce norms, regulations and procedures to generate the appropriate
conditions for implementing the reforms. In addition, accountability mechanisms - such as
the client satisfaction survey -- will provide elements to make these arrangements binding.
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND ACCOUNTABILITY FOR HEALTH REFORM
Reform Components         Institutional Arrangements          Accountability
Expanding and Improving    - Monetary incentive to counterbalance    Client Satisfaction Surveys to
Primary Care             the risks of shirking in the attention of    guarantee adequate quality of
patients.                           services.
- New regulation for public sector labor
requirements & conditions.
- Obra Social Provincial will reimburse
services according to the new health care
model.
Improving Public Hospital   - Monetary incentives to improve staff    Client Satisfaction Survey.
Performance               performance.
- Reinforce the systems of referral &
counterreferal to guarantee adequate flow
of patients.
Strengthening MOH         Partnership with the Obra Social
Regulatory Capacity       Provincial to: (a) introduce technology-
use criteria in reimbursements; (b)
conduct information campaign to the
population on the benefits of generic
_  medicines.



Annex H-Page 4 of 6
7.    In terms of technical assistance requirements, the MOH has elaborated a plan
detailing the activities for each reform component. Given the complexity of some of the
reform activities, the access to technical assistance in time and content becomes crucial for
the implementation of the reform. Thus, the MOH has already agreed with the Ministry of
Finance and PRESSAL the financing of part of these activities. In addition, the MOH will
apply to the gender fumds to finance the technical assistance related to integrating gender on
reform actions. However, the mission recommends that the MOH should guarantee the
total financing of the technical assistance before loan negotiations to avoid potential
drawbacks during its implementation.
Social Protection
8.    The institutional assessment centered on analyzing the institutional capacity of the
Secretaria Del Estado De Promocion Comunitaria (SEPC) to implement social policies
and programs. Within the first year of operations, the Secretaria has shown sound capacity
to formulate innovative social policies and programs responding to a modem vision for
addressing poverty challenges. The SEPC introduced a two-tier strategy for combating
poverty and promoting social development, which consists of: (i) providing social
assistance to the poor through in-kind and money transfers (including the income-support
program PPAS, which is unique in the country); (ii) and promoting human development
through productivity-enhancement and social capital strengthening programs (see table
below). In addition, the SEPC enhanced its responsiveness capacity to the clients' needs by
performing changes in its organizational arrangements. Examples of this are the
decentralization of the SEPC operations to 31 "one stop shop center" located in poor
neighborhoods and the promotion of public-private partnerships for the provision of
specific services. Also, the SEPC is exploring different coordination mechanisms in the
provision of social assistance with other sector ministries and municipalities.
PROGRAMS OFFERED BY THE SEPC AND THEIR MAIN BENEFICIARIES
Programs                              Beneficiaries
Social Assistance Programs            - Low-Income Household Heads
(a) Money/In-Kind Transfers:   - Vulnerable/At-Risk Groups (Children, Youth,
- PPASS                 Elder)
- Food                  - Psychological-challenged groups (e.g., battered
- Construction Material    women)
- Emergencies
(b) Provision of social aid services:
- Board & Lodging
- Social Work
- Recreation Activities
Human Development & Community         - Institutions/NGOs
Promotion                             - Civil Society Organizations
(a) Human Development Interventions   - Low-Income Families
(b) Social Capital Strengthening
(c) Productivity-Enhancement Projects



Annex H-Page 5 of 6
9.    To consolidate the benefits from the achievements above, the main challenge for the
Secretaria is to enhance its resource-allocation and program impact evaluation capacity.
Although the SEPC has good information on the social demands and causes of poverty and
important efforts has been undertaken in the identification of beneficiaries (e.g.,
coordination with SINTYS and IPEC), additional skills and instruments are required to
systematize the main needs and demands of its clients, and to set priorities accordingly.
Also, the SEPC needs to improve its capacity to assess the effectiveness of their programs
vis-a-vis their operation costs to guarantee sound decisions on which programs should be
continued, expanded and dropped. In addition, the SEPC needs to strengthen its capacity to
generate information that could be employed in intertemporal budget allocation decisions
since the various programs being implemented requires different magnitude of resources in
time to guarantee their sustainability. This is the case of the PPASS. Its potential demand
of beneficiaries (unemployed households heads without income) have about less than 50%
of chances to revert this situation', which will make become dependent on this type of
assistance for a very long term.
10.   The assessment also found that expanding the coordination with municipalities
offers a great potential for achieving greater efficiency and responsiveness in the delivery of
services. Municipalities carry-out similar functions than those of the SEPC. They execute
national, provincial and own programs of social assistance (e.g., nutrition and PPASS) and
of community-strengthening. In addition, they are responsible for the identification and
assessment of beneficiaries, elaboration of socio-economic reports for national institutions,
and as broker of social services including handling for subsidies award. Interviews with
personnel from the municipalities of San Lorenzo, San Martin and Carcafiaran suggest that
they have experience and comparative advantages to identify the poor and their major
needs, and to deliver social assistance in an efficient way.2 Also, the presence of
overlapping in the financing of social services between the SEPC and municipalities could
be reduced. Currently, the SPEC has delegated the identification of beneficiaries to most
municipalities. However, financing and delivery mechanisms and institutional
arrangements could be established to introduce and formalize incentives for closer and
better coordination with municipalities. For example, the Secretaria could decentralize the
administration of particular programs by establishing management contracts including
monitoring indicators and supervision arrangements. These coordination mechanisms
could also include incentives to promote private/public partnerships in the provision and
evaluation of services.
11.   Another institutional challenge that the SEPC has is to modernize its organization
structure and functioning to allow better coordination work both at the inter and intra-
agency level. The present organization of the Secretaria conducts the operation of the
different programs through separate units, which limits the incentives for exchanging
information to prevent possible overlapping and/or gaps in the delivery of services. Also,
l This figure has been estimated based on the employed and unemployed profile (e.g., education, age, time
unemployed) of the labor force of Rosario for May 2000.
2 This presumption is based on the ratio of employees required to deliver services (as a proxy of the costs) vis-
a-vis the number of beneficiaries.



Annex H-Page 6 of 6
this structure provides few opportunities to offer an integral package of social assistance to
clients due to the lack of coordination mechanisms among the SEPC units. In addition, the
fact that the current administrative practices do not link program operations with resource
planning and monitoring, hinders the estimation of costs per program, and thus, the
assessment of the levels efficiency achieved in the delivery of services. Finally, the little
flexibility to redefine or assign new tasks to the units by the organization structure, reduce
the incentives for coordination with other agencies.



Annex I-Page 1 of 3
Argentina
Santa Fe Provincial Reform Loan
Electricity Distribution
1.    EPESF (Empresa Provincial de Energia de Santa Fe) is a province owned electricity
distribution company. The province intends to privatize or concession the company's
assets with the aim to reduce costs, increase investment, improve services, reduce tariffs for
residential users and small and medium-sized forms, and provide explicit subsidies for
vulnerable groups including the poor and isolated rural communities. It also expects to use
the privatization receipts to support economic growth and job creation in the province and
to provide a fiscal cushion in the event of an economic shock.
Performance
2.    With almost 900,000 customers and 4200 Gwh of energy sold in 1999, EPESF
ranks third among distribution companies in Argentina and the largest still under state
control. About 90 percent of the population is served directly by EPESF, largely in urban
areas, with the remaining 10 percent serviced by 64 cooperatives that buy electricity at
wholesale prices from EPESF. Total income in 1999, was $394 million.
3.    Despite improvement in recent years, with some reductions in personnel, increases
in productivity and improvements in service quality, the compcny still ranks as one of the
poorest performers in the country in terms of users/employees (at 270), losses (21 percent
technical and non-technical), and the highest in terms of salaries to operation costs (33
percent). Based on the experience in Argentina in the performance of other privatized state
distribution companies (Edenor and Edesur in Buenos Aires), there appears to be
significant scope for efficiency gains.
4.    Current tariffs are characterized as follows: the deregulated sector, or larger private
firms that can purchase directly from generators or retailers, pay tariffs that are competitive,
whereas the "captive" clients (both residential and commercial) pay tariffs that support the
inefficiencies of the EPESF.
Privatization Plan
5.    The privatization law was sanctioned in December 1999, which allowed the
province to intervene EPESF and transform it into an incorporated enterprise to effect the
concession. An investment bank was hired, through a competitive public process, to
develop a marketing strategy and to elaborate the technical and legal documents required
for the process of privatization, including the regulatory framework. Regarding EPE's
transmission assets (2,032km of 132kV lines), two options were reviewed by the Province
and Federal authorities, with support from the privatization advisor: (i) sell these assets to
the regional transmission company (TRANSNEA-that already covers the provinces of



Annex I-Page 2 of 3
Fornosa, Chaco, Corrientes and Entre Rios), that would operate them under a concession
contract regulated by ENRE, the national power regulatory agency; (ii) privatize EPE's
transmission and distribution assets together, but establish separate concession provisions
for the distribution and transmission functions regulated by a provincial regulatory agency
to be established, in order to ensure free access to the interconnected transmission grid , and
fair and transparent pricing of this access.
6.    Public offering is expected to occur by mid-2001, with the new concessionaire
expected to take over by July 2001. The concession is established for 35 years. The
Governor is empowered to accept offers within 70 percent of the company's value. Ninety
percent of the shares would be sold, with the remaining 10 percent reserved for the
company workers and their organizations and to cover contingent liabilities related to issues
of backpay and benefits and not related to the current privatization process. An existing
debt of around $56 million to the Banco de la Nacion would be assumed by the
concessionaire. Large international operators have expressed interest for this transaction,
that has good chances for success given prospects for efficiency improvements, strong
political support, and transparent bidding conditions. Risks of transaction reversal or
regulatory disputes appear to be small. The Government is also creating a provincial public
utilities agency to regulate the electricity sector (ERCE). The regulatory framework draws
on the experiences in Argentina with previous concessioning of power distribution, and the
province's own experiences with regulatory agencies for the concessioned water company
and toll roads.
7.    The proposed changes in tariffs are designed to benefit the "captive" sector and are
subject to revision every five years. Any tariff subsidies would be explicit for groups such
as the poor, cooperatives, pensioners, and isolated rural. For the latter, the province is
discussing with the Federal government its participation in the Bank's PERMER Project,
which includes subsidies for conversion to renewable energy sources financing under a
GEF grant.
Downsizing and Social Mitigation Plan
8.    Over the past few years the level of staffing in the EPESF has been gradually
reduced. About 450 workers have accepted voluntary-base reduction system, and there are
about 3,000 employees. It is estimated a privatized EPESF overtime might require
somewhat less than 2,000 employees. The Government has launched a new program of
anticipated retirement for the 650 employees that are within seven years of retirement.
Thus, around 2,500 workers might be transferred to the concessionaire, which would then
be responsible for further downsizing in line with its needs. Those workers not needed by
the new operators would have the option of accepting severance packages or could be
integrated into the provincial government, where they would receive training required for
placement, but would be under normal civil service pay regime (current EPESF employees
receive compensation well above that of those in the public administration).



Annex I-Page 3 of 3
Environmental Cleanup and Safeguards
9.    An environmental audit was conducted to identify and rectify potential liabilities
prior to launching the public offering. PCB contamination was identified in several
installations. Cleanup is being undertaken by an international specialized private firm
within national regulations and international standards of disposal and would be completed
prior to the transfer of the concession.
10.   EPESF operations would be governed by the extensive body of existing national
and provincial environmental laws and regulations. Local compliance is monitored by the
newly-created Secretary for the Environment and Sustainable Development. Contract
performance would be monitored by ERCE.
World Bank User
A:\SantaFe.Annexl.doc
05/05/01 2:59 PM






Annex J-Page 1 of 4
Argentina
Santa Fe Provincial Reform Loan
Social Consultation
1.    A social consultation was undertaken to measure the concerns of the population in
the delivery of social services by the public sector and to engage in depth participants in
their reaction to possible solutions.
Methodology
2.    A representative survey of provincial population was made based on income
level, gender, age and occupational situation during the period from August to October
2000. The survey instrument was applied to 303 people. To understand better the
results, in-depth interviews were carried out with 100 of the participants. Finally,
interactive sessions were carried out with three focus groups. The draft report was then
discussed by the technical teams working in each sector as to the issues identified and
possible solutions to be responsive to the concerns raised to help ensure the design of
reforms that would meet the development objectives and reduce implementation risks.
Health
3.    The delivery of public health services was seen as a priority issue among 20
percent of those surveyed. About 60 percent of this group were current users of public
hospitals and services, the grand majority of whom were satisfied with the services
received, but also felt that resources should be increased. They identified hospital
infrastructure and highly complex services as most urgently requiring more resources.
Mainly lower income groups, who were largely satisfied with the services received, used
health centers at the primary level of attention.
4.    More than 90 percent of those surveyed felt that public hospital resources should
be increased. About half of these felt that recovering costs from those patients with
health insurance was a viable approach to increasing resources available. To improve
targeting for the poor, most felt that increasing the availability of health center services
would be effective. The notion of providing health insurance to the poor as an alternative
for increasing their access met with little sympathy, with only 6 percent accepting such a
solution.
Education
5.    The survey focused on the national education reform effort launched in the mid-
1990s to increase obligatory attendance from 9 to 12 years and to introduce career tracks
for secondary level students. About 70 percent of those surveyed were aware of the
reform and efforts to implement it in the Province. However, there was little
understanding of the career tracks except among those 20 percent who had received



Annex J-Page 2 of 4
informnation through more formal means, i.e. communications from the schools, teachers
and the mass media. While some questioned the reforms, the vast majority accepted
them as being inevitable. Among those directly affected 62 percent of teachers and
students agreed with the reforms. About half considered the increase in obligatory
education to be appropriate, only about one-fourth of those with lower incomes were
positive about the change.
6.    Issues of school quality were also explored. More than 80 percent gauged the
quality of public education to be very good or good. Private schools were also rated
highly, if somewhat lower than public schools, at 74 percent positive. Among the
teachers surveyed, there was little sympathy for the use of national tests to assess quality.
Among the factors affecting school quality, 40 percent felt that the quality was negatively
affected by overly generous leave policies for teachers, which resulted in a high level of
substitute teachers and disrupted continuity. School violence was also seen, by 70
percent of the respondents, as negatively affecting quality, particularly student/student
violence. There was significant support for the implementation of a school violence
program, particularly training for teachers.
Social Assistance
7.    About 60 percent of those surveyed were aware of specific social programs.
While knowledge of such programs was higher among those with lower incomes, still 30
percent of this group were not aware of such programs. People where mostly aware of
feeding programs. Those aware of programs rated them highly, 80 percent overall, and
90 percent of the poor. Of the 20 percent of respondents participating in such programs,
only 15 percent were not satisfied. Social assistance was overwhelmingly viewed as a
handout for those in need. Only 17 percent viewed them as instruments to assist them in
improving their situation. Issues of clientelism and leakage were not a major concern
among those surveyed. A large segment (60 percent) was not aware of requirements to
access the programs and only 35 percent felt that such requirements were important for
targeting. Among the favored solutions to improve social assistance were to provide
direct payments to heads of households (73 percent) and to provide a greater role in
delivery to NGOs, particularly church groups (44 percent). Only 10 percent felt that
municipal government should have a greater role.
Issues Raised and Possible Responses
The conclusions of the social assessment and the issues raised by the participants were
reviewed by the technical groups working in each sector to discuss possible responses,
which are presented below.



Annex J-Page 3 of 4
HEALTH
ISSUES                             RESPONSES
There is a high level of satisfaction with  A pilot approach focusing on a selected
the current system, but the need for further  number of hospitals would help to
investment is seen as a priority. An  demonstrate the benefits of proposed
important segment supports cost recovery   changes.
in public hospitals.
Negative reaction to the idea of providing   Again a pilot approach, including a
health insurance to the poor. Lack of  promotional campaign, should be pursued
consideration about a possible role for a    to gradually show the benefits of this
poor people health covered            approach in terms of access. A phased
approach justified by potential fiscal costs.
The program to improve access to primary  This is a favorable sign, as the burdening of
attention, particularly arnong the poor, has  public hospitals with primary attention
been received favorably.              could undermine reform efforts.



Annex J-Page 4 of 4
EDUCATION
Passive resistance to the effort to increase   The lack of local ownership, particularly
compulsory education. The poor are not    among school staff, is a serious risk that
convinced of the benefits.            will require efforts to garner support for the
reforms. The lack of support by the poor
indicates that the intended beneficiaries are
not convinced of the value of education.
Targeting of the program to poorer areas
will require, along with school
improvements, continuing scholarship
programs for students from poor families.
Little understanding of the polimodal.  Greater publicity efforts are in order, along
with collaboration with the private sector to
enhance the benefits of the approach.
An understanding that lax administration of While general sympathy among the
teacher leave policy contributes to poorer   populace for improved administration
quality education, apart from raising costs.  would reduce implementation risks,
teachers themselves need to be convinced
of the benefits of improved controls.
Resistance to assessment among teachers.   Although national testing instrumentals are
of high quality, there is little ownership of
them at the local level; developing and
local tests would be costly. A more formal
mechanisms to use national test results
needs to be developed, with input from
local teachers, and participation by parents
and students at the school level.
SOCIAL PROGRAMS
Little understanding of existing programs.   Publicity programs, including diffusion
through NGO's , church ,etc.
Some fear of clientelism and abuses.  Greater delivery role for churches and
NGOs. Social independent audits with
publicized results.
Social programs seen as handouts.     Promotional and self-help programs should
be given greater prominence.



Annex K - Page 1 of 2
Argentina
Santa Fe Provincial Reform Loan
THE PROVINCES
1.    The Argentine nation was born out of the union of various colonial regions with
differing economic and social characteristics. The first two decades of independence
(1810 to 1830) were characterized by struggles between unitarian and federalist groups.'
Under the strong hand of Rosas (1830 to 1851), a federalist nation emerged. This process
was consolidated with the Constitution of 1853, establishing a constitutional federal
republic. The provinces were granted autonomy in the administration of their territories,
a limited set of federal government functions was established, the provinces were granted
residual powers over any matters not specified to be federal functions, and the internal
economic union was promulgated with the elimination of internal customs controls.2
Despite some modifications (including the recent reform of 1994), the essential federalist
structure of the 1853 Constitution remains in force today.
2.     The contemporary Argentine Republic is divided into 23 autonomous provinces
and the autonomous Municipality of the City of Buenos Aires (with legal status similar to
the provincial governments). The provinces are the principle providers of health, primary
and secondary education, and public safety functions in the Argentine public sector.
They are also responsible for most transportation and housing investment and share
responsibility with the federal govermment for regulation of privately provided
infrastructure and utilities,.3 and account for about 40 percent of public spending.4
3.     Each province has autonomy to organize its territory into local municipal
jurisdictions, according to its provincial constitution and supplementary provincial law.
There are approximately 2,150 municipalities and towns (comunas) in Argentina.' The
legal autonomy, expenditure responsibilities and financing arrangements of local
governments vary across provinces. Municipal governments are responsible for about 7
percent of total public sector expenditures in Argentina.6 In most cases, their activities
are restricted to traditional urban functions of local street maintenance, street lighting,
municipal parks, and solid waste disposal.
4.     The provinces have diverse geographic and demographic characteristics. The
Province of Buenos Aires is by far the largest, with nearly 14 million people. Then there
are three jurisdictions with about 3 million people each (C6rdoba, Santa Fe and MCBA)
Mendoza has 1.5 million inhabitants, followed by 7 provinces with populations in the 0.7
to 1.3 million range (Tucuman, Salta, Entre Rios, Corrientes, Chaco, Misiones and
Santiago del Estero). Another 12 jurisdictions have populations that range from 160,000
' Alemann (1992) and Skidmore and Smith (1984).
2 The establishment of constitutional federalism was not accomplished inmmediately, as the Province of
Buenos Aires refused to endorse the new Constitution until the 1860s.
3For example, see World Bank Report, Argentina - Transport Privatization and Regulation: the next wave
of challenges, or Argentina-Reforming Provincial Utilities: Issues, Challenges and Best Practice.
4See Argentina: Provincial Finances Study, World Bank Report No. 15487-AR, Februaryl2, 2001.
5 Argentine Ministry of Economy, Informe Economico Regional; July, 1998.
6Argentina: Provincial Finances Study, page 5.



Annex K - Page 2 of 2
to 550,000. Finally, there is Tierra del Fuego, at the tip of the continent with about
100,000 inhabitants. The level of economic development varies dramatically, as well.
The high population provinces are at the top of the scale, while other provinces are
blessed with particularly strong natural resource bases (prime land in the humid pampas,
or the oil riches of the south). There is a concentration of lesser developed provinces in
the northwest and northeast. In addition, even in the more developed regions, migration
has led to pockets of poverty (for example, in the province of Buenos Aires, there are
densely populated slums outside the federal capital).
TABLE 1: Basic Characteristics of the Argentine Provinces
G.CB.A.                      3046 US            302@   8,1                200          10.5%    99.2%         13.0
Buenos Aires                14,214,701           8S    17,2            307,571         12.3%    97.4%         19.1
Catamarca                     318,147            61   28,2             102,602         10.7%    95.0%         23.3
C6rdoba                      3,090,803           95    15,1            165,321         14.2%    96.5%         16.8
Corrientes                    921,933            53    31,4             88,199         14.0%    89.7%         23.8
Chaco                         951,795            49    39,5             99,633          9.5%    87.6%         31.8
Chubut                        448,028           112    21,9            224,686         12.4%    94.9%         19.7
Entre Rlos                   1,113,438           72    20,6             78,781         13.4%    94.6%         18.8
Formosa                       504,185            45    39,1             72,066          8.6%    90.6%         26.9
Jujuy                         604,002            54    35,5             53,219         16.3%    92.1%         21.5
La Pampa                      306,113           106    13,5            143,440         11.6%    95.5%         14.0
La Rioja                      280,198            73    27,0             89,680          8.3%    95.6%         22.9
Mendoza                      1,607,618           93    17,6            148,827          7.6%    94.9%         15.6
Misiones                      995,326            52    33,6             29,801          5.7%    90.8%         20.0
Neuquen                       560,726           132    21,4             94,078         13.7%    93.9%         14.8
R[o Negro                      618,486           92    23,2            203,013          7.9%    93.7%         17.7
Salta                        1,067,347           54    37,1            155,488         14.6%    92.3%         22.6
San Juan                      578,504            67    19,8             89,651          8.1%    95.3%         21.7
San Luis                      363,345           105    21,5             76,748          7.3%    95.3%         20.6
Santa Cruz                    206,897           170    14,7            243,943          4.3%    97.5%         18.0
Santa Fe                     3,098,661           92    17,6            133,007         16.9%    96.0%         16.2
Santiago del Estero           725,993            42    38,2            136,351          7.2%    90.4%         18.1
Tucuman                      1,293,349           60    22,4             22,524         19.2%     94.5%        19.9
Tierra del Fuego               115,538          219    27,7             21,571         15.3%     98.8%        11.9
All Provinces               37,031,802        $8,323    19,9         2,780,400        14.5 %     96.0%      19.1 %
7 Population: INDEC's projection based on 1991 census and forecasted growth rates.
8GDP per capita: Projection based on 1998 estimation.
9% of population in NBI: Percentage of the population living in dwellings with unsatisfied basic needs (lacking in some
basic access to service/minimum quality of construction).
0 Unemployment rate is only for urban areas (where more than one urban area is surveyed, both rates are reported).
I Literacy: INDEC's projection based on 1991 estimation, percentage of population over 15 yrs. of age that is literate.
12 Infant mortality is per 1,000 live births, (1998).



Annex L-Page 1 of 3
Argentina
Santa Fe Provincial Reform Loan
Environmental Aspects
Background
I .    As a major agricultural producer, Santa Fe has long been concerned with
environmental issues, particularly related to natural resource management. The legal
framework for pollution control and environmental protection has been built up through
the 1 990s, culminating in the creation of the Provincial Secretary for the Environment
and Sustainable Development (SMAyDS) last year. Existing legislation, complementing
in some cases national legislation, covers the hunting, fishing and extraction to protect
flora and fauna (Ley 4830); the use of chemicals in agricultural and industrial activities
(Ley 7461); as well as specific legislation covering native forests; soil conservation and
management(Leyes 9004, 11111, 11121), and 10552); land use in flood plains (Ley
11730); water quality and effluent management; and the management of hospital wastes
(Decreto 388/00).
2.    The enhanced framework for environmental issues has been promoted through the
participation of the Province in a series of Bank investment operations. For example, the
land use restrictions in floodplains were supported under the Flood Protection Project.
Requirements for environmental impact assessments under Bank operations, including
the Flood Project, as well as the Provincial Roads Project, have also given the Province
valuable experience in this area, which is now being operationalized for public works in
general with the support of the PRL.
The Secretary for Environmental and Sustainable Development
3.    The creation of the new Secretary for the Environment reflects the importance
given by the Province to environmental concerns. The Sub-secretariat that it replaces
was initially charged with general responsibilities for promotion and technical aspects of
policy. Over the years its authority was expanded to include, in association with an
enlarging body of environmental law policy, control over hunting, fishing and extraction
of flora and fauna and the formation and enforcement of plans to protect ecological
systems. Under Law 11717, which creates SMAyDS, it is now responsible for:
*  Elaborating and proposing policies for environmental protection and sustainable
development;
*  Managing protected areas with a mandate to enhance the participation of local
communities in their management, monitoring and vigilance;
*  Environmental education;
*  Setting the physical, chemical and biological parameters for determining acceptable



Annex L-Page 2 of 3
standards for environmental quality in conjunction with the national authority under
Article 41 of the Constitution;
*  Screening, clearance and monitoring of environmental impact assessments;
*  Regulating the generation, transport and treatment of toxic wastes;
*  Convening audiences for public consultation on environmental issues, as well as
establishing a Provincial Council to serve as a permanent consultative body made up
of representatives from municipalities and comunas to deal with inter-jurisdictional
issues; and
*  Imposing administrative sanctions for non-compliance with environmental
regulations.
4.    The staff of SMAyDS has been reinforced to undertaken these new
responsibilities through the incorporation of professionals and technicians for existing
agencies, including the General Directorate for Protection of Fauna, General Directorate
for Pollution Control and Environmental Protection; Directorate for Water and Soils; and
the Directorate for Water Resource and Liquid Effluents. Of the 70 people in the
SMAyDS, 48 are at the professional or technical level.
Environmental Aspects of the Program and Proposed Support
5.    As required under Bank guidelines, we have reviewed Santa Fe's environmental
policies and practices, highlighting linkages between the adjustment program and the
environment, and showing how the program is design to take these linkages into account.
The proposed operation is not expected to have negative environmental impacts. The
only change in the patterns and levels of public spending with potential negative effects
conditioned by the program would be an increase in spending for routine road
maintenance. Over the long term, however, such a shift in spending should be beneficial
to the environment by reducing pressures for new road construction or the need for major
rehabilitation. Routine road maintenance, itself, would be subject to the environmental
safeguards promoted under the Provincial Roads Project. At the same time, several
initiatives under program should also enhance environmental protection and natural
resource management, both locally and globally.
Public Works. With prospects for increased public investment, the Province is moving
to improve the transparency and efficiency in procuring public goods and services, as
noted above. Economic and environriental aspects of public investment are also
expected to be improved under the program, with all public works financed by the
Province costing over $7.5 million requiring economic evaluation and environmental
impact studies. This would build on experience gained in environmental impact
assessments already required under Bank-financed projects in flood protection and roads.
Based on the 2001 budget, and 2002 investment plans under Provincial Roads and Flood
Protection, the share of public works receiving EIA would be about 70 percent in 2002.
During program supervision, the Bank would support institutionalizing SMAyDS
oversight responsibilities and provide advice on establishing an appropriate EIA
mechanism for screening and monitoring.



Annex L-Page 3 of 3
Electric Company Privatization. The private concessionaire would be subject to a well
developed body of environmental regulations established over the years by the National
Secretary of Energy and the National Energy Regulatory Agency, as detailed in the
Provincial Law for Privatization. Contract performance would be monitored by the new
provincial regulatory agency (ERCE), with support from SMAyDS on environmental
issues. In conjunction with the privatization, an environmental review was conducted to
identify and rectify potential liabilities prior to launching the public offering and PCB
contamination was identified in several installations. Cleanup is being undertaken by an
international specialized private firm within national regulations and international
standards of disposal and would be completed prior to the transfer of the concession. In
conjunction with the proposed privatization, the Province is expected to participate in a
programn financed under the Bank's Renewable Energy Project (PERMER) and an
associated GEF, which promotes the use of renewable sources.






E   o    r      60O    75                                soo         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 29348
i201              BOLIVIA            !1200-
11  \  i&\-WSN., PARAGUAY 
'1   w. SSaujuydor  3fOo,                   X      ~B R A  Z I L                 X
1   _   _  ~SA LTFA      /       .S                                                     -- 
t  > C     g ~ATudirnan      |N   CC<i                 , eG  f       
.)  X     NSANTIAGO       eitni<,  oa,\c\,,
X  L    sq \ ^{ <geSobtiEa?o del lstkr(L   _Corrientes        r
L L      t-i8Ct   ESTERO|                 I                                      ,
,      La ~RI(ia OJA\R    ~\ SA N TA_. *                              ! /
u  r J AN!               C    --2FE  )        X       ,.( 
-- N-CORDOBAW  e1PrNTZ    
Z   , x  MndoaX   Lui /    /   \       i'URUGUAY 
'  i          t ~~~UIS ! 4                      Aires   >
JfMENDOZA:              I,
\   9   ~Santa RosaS  |AUNS               -2  T L A  N  T I C
2,   1  5>            L~~~LA         A IR ES 
PA MPA     If
{NEUQUEN; (                               /
< 0 ,\ ~Neuquen6 - *| -                                                       0   C E A  N
Q-    I     .           RIO!
e . \ . .  --  .1ARGENTINA
? W- /CHUBUT
->   .   .                                   S~~~~~~~~~~~~(  PROVINCE CAPITAlS
tr~~~~ f  *~~~~~~ -                           6~~9)   NATON  CAPITAL
x f < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE BVJNDARIE-S
<<F;t;   08   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~          .       --- ~~~ INfERNATICNAL BOUNlOARIES
X   V   S A NTA
A  A   . >C R UZ   .FALKLAND ISLANDS
-/W 3 > SS -                {~~MALVINAS)
-50v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0I 2 30L AM SWwo                                     6M uG600KlER5
a=eJ[/zA~~        ~~~~ N$Nq.
%;tX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i m-X %- pmwe by ?w ma Dei                t ^w? Unt ofs The w?id &"k, 
4W A>S;, 1 .TIERR?A                   an1h*n*mtd&not impl,on theport of T WarMBp, jsd any
't'-SaDEL FUEGO                                                     =10.11?r5a?4Q 
70,'                                                 -   -                                       ---:. 
APRIL I1998



