Report No. PID10004
Project Name                     Argentina-Santa Fe Provincial Reform Loan (@)
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                           PREM
Project ID                       ARPE69913
Borrower                         Argentine Republic
Implementing Agency              Provincial Government.
Date PID prepared                January 15, 2001
Appraisal Date                   To be determined
Proposed Date of                 May 15, 2001
Board Presentation
Background
1.      Argentina's public sector is highly decentralized.    The 24 provincial
governments are responsible for almost half of public sector expenditures,
including over 90 percent of public spending in health and education.
However, provincial fiscal performance has often been poor, as has been the
quality and efficiency of public expenditures in health and education.
During the 1980s, high inflation rates, lack of budgetary discipline, easy
access to borrowing and reliance on the Federal Government for transfers and
bailouts all contributed to persistent fiscal deficits. The situation
improved in 1992, due to the reforms that the Federal Government had
initiated under the Convertibility Plan, and a major national tax effort.
However, this deteriorated again soon after due to excessive spending by the
provinces, given their inability to manage the rapid increase in the funds
transferred from the center. The financial crisis of 1995 aggravated the
critical situation of the provinces, once again, when the pool of total
public revenues fell dramatically. In 1995-96, out of 24 provinces, only four
had balanced fiscal accounts. Most of the others faced important liquidity
shortages, increased borrowing, and accumulated arrears. While the situation
improved as Argentina saw considerable growth in 1997, it deteriorated once
again as a result of the external shocks emanating from the crises in East
Asia, Russia and Brazil. The aggregate deficit for the provinces reached an
estimated $3.2 billion in 1999 (excluding privatization of $640 million) and
some provinces now faced high debt burdens.
2.      Recognizing the importance of provincial finances to macro-stability in
a federal state, provincial reform has been a priority for the Federal
Government since the early 1990s. The provinces have agreed to improve own-
source mobilization, restructure provincial taxes and eliminate distortionary
taxes, privatize public enterprises, including the provincial banks and
utilities, deregulate the provincial economy, and transfer the provincial
pension funds to the national system. In exchange, the Federal Government
has guaranteed a shared-revenue floor to each province, sheltering them from
any downfalls in revenue, and has offered to help several smaller, more
deprived provinces address their debt load. It also provided a
Transformation Fund, which helped finance those reforms and provide technical
assistance and advisory services. While a number of provinces began



implementing a program of reforms during 1993-94, it was not until the
financial crisis of 1995 that a number of provinces began to reform in
earnest. The latest recession has once again impressed upon the provinces
the need to take action.
3.      The situation today is vastly different than it was ten years ago
despite the need to continue with reforms. Progress has been achieved in
many areas. Almost half of the provincial public enterprises were
privatized, including 18 out of the 31 provincial and municipal banks. Many
provincial utility services are now run by the private sector and eight
provinces have transferred their pension funds to the national government.
The Bank actively supported these efforts through a series of successful
completed operations, including First Provincial Development Project (Ln.
3280), First Provincial Reform Loan (Ln. 3836), Provincial Bank Privatization
Loan (Ln. 3878), and Provincial Pension Reform Loan (Ln. 4116). All
provinces are also engaged in various ways in improving the delivery of basic
health, social protection, and education services, often with the support of
complementary loans from the World Bank and IDB.
The Provincial Reform Program
4.      By 1996, the federal government recognized the need for a second phase
of provincial reforms beyond what was already started to reorient the role
of the state and to improve fiscal management. In particular, it was seen as
highly desirable that these reforms would help the Governors to improve
efficiency in public spending, secure and maintain fiscal balance, reduce
debt stock and debt service to manageable proportions, and enhance
responsiveness, quality and equity in the provision of social services. The
national government and the Bank jointly agreed on the eligibility criteria
and the focus of the program. The loans would be available to provinces
that: (i) have introduced significant structural reforms in terms of size of
the provincial government and privatization of major public banks and other
enterprises; (ii) have accepted the transfer of the provincial pension funds
to the national system; and (iii) have demonstrated ability and political
commitment to further reforms. In 1997, the first of these loans were
approved for the provinces of Salta, Tucuman, San Juan and Rio Negro.
Subsequently, in the year 2000, operations were approved for the Province of
Catamarca and Cordoba.
Santa Fe Provincial Reform Loan Objectives
5.      The objective of this loan is to support the Province of Santa Fe in
its comprehensive reform program which seeks to reestablish fiscal
discipline, restructure government, and improve social sector operations so
as to achieve a more efficient, effective, and transparent delivery of public
services. Since Santa Fe has not participated extensively in the earlier
round of reforms, its program covers some aspects of first generation
reforms, combined with those of second generation. The three main components
of the Province's program are:
Public Finance. The Provincial Government is committed to reaching a
sustainable fiscal situation. Specific aims are to: (a) achieve a balanced
- 2 -



budget; (b) strengthen tax administration; (c) set the government's pension
system on a sound financial basis in line with national policies; and (d)
incorporate private capital into electricity distribution to improve services
and reduce the burden on the province's fiscal position. These fiscal
objectives are to be achieved while protecting spending for vital social
services and reducing tax rates in order to better promote investment needed
for increased growth in Santa Fe.
Public Administration. An important complement to the government's longer
term goals of fiscal stability and economic growth is to improve the
efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency of government services to
citizens. This will be attained through a series of activities relating to
government financial management, and increasing transparency and
accountability.
Social Sectors. Efficient and effective health care, education, and
protection for the poorest citizens are necessary investments to strengthen
Santa Fe's competitive position and better meet the needs of its people.
Programmatic policy reforms will be pursued in all these sectors. The
education program for the coming years involves a series of actions to
generate improvements in administrative efficiency and education quality.
Selected reforms include actions to allow for class consolidation, control of
absenteeism, reduction of overhead costs, conversion of public teacher
training institutions; and new subsidies systems for the private schools. In
health the provincial strategy is oriented towards ensuring the coverage of
the population, particularly uninsured indigents, with a package of public
health benefits and personalized medical care; improving the population's
choices; ensuring the financial feasibility, efficiency and quality of the
public health system; and modernizing the role of the Ministry of Health.
Efforts will also be undertaken to strengthen the government's social
protection programs in order to provided greater stability in resource flows,
equity, and improvements in selected social indicators.
6.      Borrower and Loan Amount.   The borrower of the loan would be the
Argentine Republic, which would on-lend the proceeds of $300 million on the
same terms to the Province of Santa Fe. The loan would disburse in several
tranches the size and amount of which are still to be determined. The first
tranche would be conditioned on Board approval (effectiveness) and subsequent
positive evaluations of the compliance of provinces with reform actions
agreed during negotiations. While the formal tranche-release actions will be
limited to key measures, the full program of the province will be detailed in
a Letter of Provincial Reform.
Environmental Aspects
7.      Although this type of operation is not formally subject to an
environmental rating, the Provincial authorities will conduct an
environmental audit of the inclusion of private capital in the electricity
distribution system.
Benefits and Risks
8.      Benefits.  The main benefit of the loan would be improved public
finances, a strengthened provincial competitive position, better public
services to citizens, and a series of reforms in education, health, and
-3 -



social assistance consistent with budgetary constraints.
9.      Risks.  Risks include the reversibility of some of the reforms in case
of political changes or a deterioration in the macroeconomic environment.
However, the program is designed to be fully implemented during the early
years of the provincial administration's four-year term. One advantage of
the proposed operation is the very high level of engagement and leadership by
the Governor of the Province. This has proven to be a success factor in
previous provincial operations. He was closely involved in preparation
activities, has obtained legislation supporting the program, and his
government has already initiated several reforms. Experience suggests that
strong political commitment and the general acceptance of the need for policy
reforms (i.e., fiscal discipline, privatization, decentralization) have
enabled the provinces to sustain their reform efforts even during the current
economic downturn.
Coordination with Multilateral Institutions
10.     The Bank has worked with the IMF in the design of adjustment operations
in Argentina, in formulating country strategy, and in economic and sector
work. The IMF shares the concern regarding the need to improve the fiscal
situation of many provinces. The IDB has co-financed the Public Sector
Reform Loan, Provincial Development I and the Provincial Bank Privatization
Loan.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending February 9, 2001.
- 4 -



