Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4634-AR
Loan Agreement
(Provincial Reform Adjustment Loan - Santa Fe)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 5, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4634-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 5, 2001 between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank):
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated May 28, 2001, from the 
Argentine Republic’s Province of Santa Fe (the Province) describing a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve adjustment of the public 
finances, public administration and social sectors of the Province (hereinafter called 
the Program), declaring the Province’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof;
(B)
the Borrower has indicated to the Bank that the actions and conditions 
set forth in the Program and in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement, described therein 
as agreed between the Province and the Bank, are consistent with the Borrower’s 
national policy framework regarding provincial reforms, which policy (without 
mandating specific numerical targets) encourages provinces of the Borrower to, inter 
alia:  (i) achieve and maintain balanced provincial public sector budgets; (ii) 
decrease the ratio of provincial public sector personnel expenditures to provincial 
public sector current revenues; (iii) maintain or decrease the ratio of provincial 
public sector debt stock to provincial public sector current revenues; (iv) not incur 
debt to finance provincial public sector current expenditures except under certain 
limited circumstances; (v) in general improve their provincial public sector fiscal, 
financial, accounting and budgetary discipline in a manner consistent with their 
constitutions; (vi) participate in the National Public Investment System (Sistema 
Nacional de Inversión Pública); (vii) in a manner consistent with national policies, 
achieve greater efficiency and effectiveness with regard to provincial public 
expenditures, particularly in the health and education sectors; and (viii) comply with 
Page  2
the provisions set forth in the agreement (the Compromiso Federal por el Crecimiento y 
la Disciplina Fiscal) entered into between the Borrower and its provinces on November 
17, 2000, all in an effort to widen the scope and increase the quality of provincial 
participation in said sectors for the benefit of underprivileged segments of the 
population;
(C)
the Borrower has expressed its commitment to lend to and for use by the 
Province funds in local currency in amounts equivalent to the Loan amounts disbursed 
by the Bank; and
(D)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Province by making the Loan 
to the Borrower in three tranches as hereinafter provided, thus allowing the Borrower 
to lend to the Province the funds in local currency referred to above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications thereto set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read as follows in its 
entirety:
"‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.";
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read as follows in its entirety:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.";
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement 
and of these General Conditions";
(d)
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read as follows in its entirety:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Second Tranche Release Date" means the date on which the Bank sends the 
Borrower a notice to the effect that the conditions set forth or referred to in 
Section 2.02 (d) (i) and (ii) of this Agreement have been met;
Page  3
(c)
"Subloan Agreement" means an agreement between the Borrower and the 
Province, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby the Borrower agrees to lend to the 
Province funds in local currency, in amounts equivalent to the amounts of the Loan 
disbursed by the Bank; and
(d)
"Third Tranche Release Date" means the date on which the Bank sends the 
Borrower a notice to the effect that the conditions set forth or referred to in 
Section 2.02 (e) (i) and (ii) of this Agreement have been met.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three 
hundred thirty million Dollars ($330,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its 
central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.  All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Deposit Account.  The Borrower shall not allow any other amounts from any source to be 
deposited in the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of $153,300,000, unless:
(i) 
at least six months have passed since the Effective Date; and
(ii) 
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank: (A) with the progress achieved by the 
Province in the carrying out of the Program; (B) that the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory; 
and (C) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement 
(all of which have been agreed to by the Province and are 
consistent with the Borrower’s policy framework regarding 
provincial reforms) have been taken in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank.  If, after said exchange of views, the 
Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the applicable 
conditions referred to in this paragraph have not been fulfilled 
and, within 90 days after such notice, such conditions continue to 
be unfulfilled, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
(e)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of $203,300,000, unless:
(i)
at least six months have passed since the Second Tranche Release 
Date; and
(ii)
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank:  (A) with the progress achieved by the 
Province in the carrying out of the Program; (B) that the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory; 
and (C) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
Page  4
(all of which have been agreed to by the Province and are 
consistent with the Borrower’s policy framework regarding 
provincial reforms) have been taken in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank.  If, after said exchange of views, the 
Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the applicable 
conditions referred to in this paragraph have not been fulfilled 
and, within 90 days after such notice, such conditions continue to 
be unfulfilled, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
three million three hundred thousand Dollars ($3,300,000).  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) three 
fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable March 15 and September 
15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
Page  5
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party or of the Province, exchange views on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedules 3 and 4 to this 
Agreement.  The Borrower shall, as allowed by the terms of the Subloan Agreement, 
cause the Province to participate in such exchanges of views with the Borrower and the 
Bank.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, as well as every three months from 
the Effective Date to the Third Tranche Release Date, the Borrower shall, as allowed 
by the terms of the Subloan Agreement, cause the Province to furnish to the Bank for 
the Bank’s review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views, and, as allowed by the terms of the Subloan 
Agreement, cause the Province to exchange views, with the Bank on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program, including any action specified in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall, as allowed by the terms of the Subloan Agreement, cause the 
Province to assist in, and provide all information required for, the preparation of 
the report referred to in Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions, as said Section 
9.07 (c) is amended and renumbered pursuant to Section 1.01 (e) and (f) of this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, immediately and automatically after each 
disbursement of Loan proceeds, disburse to the Province funds in local currency 
equivalent to the respective amounts of each such disbursement (except that funds in 
local currency equivalent to the amount disbursed by the Bank to itself pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement need not be so disbursed by the Borrower to the 
Province).  Such disbursement to the Province shall take place according to the terms 
of the Subloan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
The Subloan Agreement has been amended, suspended, terminated, abrogated, 
waived or failed to enforce (by the Borrower and/or the Province in respect of their 
corresponding obligations set forth in said agreement) so as to affect, in the opinion 
of the Bank, proper disbursement of local currency amounts to the Province as required 
by Section 3.03 of this Agreement, or so as to make the interest and principal 
repayment terms set forth in the Subloan Agreement significantly different, in the 
opinion of the Bank, from those set forth or referred to in Article II of this 
Agreement.
Page  6
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory to the 
Bank;
(b)
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Province in the 
carrying out of the Program; and
(c)
the Subloan Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinions 
(one from the Borrower and another from the Province) to be furnished to the Bank, 
namely that the Subloan Agreement entered into in satisfaction of the condition set 
forth in Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and the Province and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the 
Province in accordance with the terms of such Subloan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The date of December 5, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Page  7
By /s/ Domingo F. Cavallo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna L. Alexander
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112            -
Alcoholic beverages
121            -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122            -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525            -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718         718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728         728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897         897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971            -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
Page  8
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 2007
 through September 15, 2016
16,500,000
___________________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
SCHEDULE 3
Provincial Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (ii) (C) of this Agreement
Public Finances
1.
The Province has attained (as confirmed by the Borrower in writing to the Bank), 
for the period covered by any six (6) continuous months among the eight (8) months 
immediately preceding the Second Tranche Release Date, a provincial public sector 
current balance greater than, or equal to, zero (0).  For purposes of this paragraph:
(a)
"provincial public sector" means all components of the provincial public 
sector (except for parastatal enterprises and social security entities) for which 
funding is allocated as part of the annual consolidated provincial budgets approved by 
the Province’s legislature; and
(b)
"current balance" means the difference between current revenues (which 
revenues are hereby defined as: (i) revenues from taxes; (ii) non-tax revenues from 
the sale of goods and services and from property rentals; and (iii) revenues from all 
Page  9
federal revenue-sharing transfers and revenues from other automatic federal transfers 
to finance current expenditure programs (but excluding fifty percent (50%) of the 
revenues from those automatic transfers which, pursuant to the Borrower’s law, are 
required to finance capital expenditures (which expenditures are hereby defined as 
expenditures incurred for the acquisition, construction or financing of new or 
existing provincial infrastructure))) and current expenditures (which expenditures are 
hereby defined as expenditures incurred for payment of personnel, expenditures 
incurred for the use of goods, facilities and services, expenditures incurred for 
interest on public sector debts and transfers for which there is no consideration).
2.
The Province’s principal outstanding on its public sector debt (as of no earlier 
than thirty (30) days prior to the Second Tranche Release Date, and including overdue 
amounts owed by the Province to its employees and suppliers) is, as confirmed by the 
Borrower in writing to the Bank, equal to, or less than, fifty percent (50%) of 
provincial public sector current revenues. For purposes of this paragraph:
(a) 
"provincial public sector" means all components of the provincial public 
sector (except for parastatal enterprises and social security entities) for which 
funding is allocated as part of the annual consolidated provincial budgets approved by 
the Province’s legislature; and
(b) 
"current revenues" means: (i) revenues from taxes; (ii) non-tax revenues 
from the sale of goods and services and from property rentals; and (iii) revenues from 
all federal revenue-sharing transfers and revenues from all other automatic federal 
transfers.
Public Administration
3.
The Province’s executive branch has presented, to the Province’s legislature for 
approval thereby, a bill of law that will provide the legal framework for: (a) the 
establishment of a provincial financial management system; (b) provincial public 
procurement; and (c) the establishment of  criteria to achieve provincial fiscal 
balance in calendar year 2005.
4.
The Province has, on its web site, provided to the public (as confirmed by the 
Borrower in writing to the Bank), during the period covered by the provincial fiscal 
quarter immediately preceding the release of the Second Tranche Release Date: (a)  
information with respect to provincial tax collection; (b) the statement of provincial 
flow of revenues and expenditures; and (c) the statement of financial assets and 
liabilities of the Province’s Treasury, including the Province’s principal outstanding 
on its public sector debt and the projections of its public sector debt service 
obligations for the calendar year in which the Second Tranche Release Date falls.
5.
The Province has evaluated all new public infrastructure investments estimated 
to cost seven million five hundred thousand Dollars ($7,500,000) equivalent or more 
(which have been included in the Province’s annual budget for the calendar year in 
which the Second Tranche Release Date falls and whose works will be initiated during 
said calendar year) in accordance with economic criteria acceptable to the Bank, said 
criteria to include the HDM Model for road investments. For purposes of this 
paragraph, "HDM Model" means the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model. 
6.
The Province has, prior to such investments’ commencement, carried out an 
environmental impact assessment (under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank) of 
each public infrastructure investment referred to in paragraph 5 of this Schedule, and 
is complying with all mitigatory measures, if any, identified by such assessments.
7.
The Province’s legislature has approved, for the calendar year in which the 
Second Tranche Release Date falls, an annual budget of at least fifteen million 
Dollars ($15,000,000) equivalent for routine maintenance of provincial roads. For 
purposes of this paragraph, "routine maintenance" means the recurrent maintenance to 
be provided each year by the Province to a road during the life period of said road.
8.
The Borrower and the Province are sharing information with respect to tax 
reporting, tax audits and tax collection regarding federal and provincial taxes, in 
accordance with the provisions of the agreement (Acuerdo Marco de Adhesión al Sistema 
de Identificación Nacional Tributario y Social) entered into between the Borrower and 
the Province on May 23, 2000. 
9.
The Province is complying with the provisions set forth in Article 30 of the 
Province’s Law No. 11.876 of December 28, 2000 with respect to the gradual elimination 
of  the payroll tax rate established pursuant to the Province’s Law No. 5110 (Aportes 
Sociales) of October 29, 1959, as amended.
Page  10
10.
The Province’s executive branch has issued the invitation to the public to 
purchase class "A" and  class "B" capital stock of Energía de Santa Fe Sociedad 
Anónima in accordance with Section 3a of Chapter XIII of the Province’s Law No. 11.727 
(Marco Regulatorio Eléctrico y Transformación Energética Provincial) of December 30, 
1999.
11.
The Province’s Empresa Provincial de la Energía de Santa Fe has removed all 
polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) from its electric distribution installations in an 
environmentally sound manner.
Social Sectors
12.
The Province’s legislature has approved, for the calendar year in which the 
Second Tranche Release Date falls, an annual budget of at least fifty million nine 
hundred thousand Dollars ($50,900,000) equivalent for its Secretariat for Community 
Promotion (Secretaría de Estado de Promoción Comunitaria). 
13.
At least two of the Province’s social assistance programs, in effect during the 
calendar year in which the Second Tranche Release Date falls, have been evaluated by 
the Province in a manner acceptable to the Bank to determine their cost-effectiveness, 
coverage of target population and quality of services provided.
14.
The Province’s legislature has approved, for the calendar year in which the 
Second Tranche Release Date falls, an annual budget for the education sector which is 
no less than the approved annual budget by the Province’s legislature for said sector 
for the calendar year 2001.
15.
The personnel records of at least fifty percent (50%) of the school staff (said 
staff to include school teachers, auxiliaries and school directors) employed by 
primary and secondary schools of the Province’s public education system are recorded 
and maintained in a computerized comprehensive single personnel file (legajo único 
electrónico - Sistema de Administración de Recursos Humanos (SARH)), with one such 
separate file for each such staff member, which files serve as the cornerstone for 
school staff administration for said education system. 
16.
The personnel records of at least fifty percent (50%) of the students enrolled 
in  primary and secondary schools of the Province’s public education system are 
recorded and maintained in a computerized comprehensive single personnel file (legajo 
único electrónico - Sistema de Gestión y Administración Escolar (SIGAE)), with one 
such separate file for each such student, which files serve as the cornerstone for 
student administration for said education system.
17.
The Province’s Ministry of Education has integrated the two computerized 
comprehensive single personnel files referred to in paragraphs 15 and 16 of this 
Schedule for purposes of obtaining information concerning the appropriate distribution 
of school staff  within the Province’s primary and secondary public education system.
18.
At least fifty percent (50%) of the Province’s public secondary schools have 
adopted school development plans, each said plan to be designed taking into account 
the results of the national achievement test (ONE - Operativos Nacionales de 
Evaluación de Calidad) taken by the students enrolled in the corresponding secondary 
schools.
19.
The Province has designed an action plan for purposes of accrediting public and 
private teacher training institutes (IFDs - Institutos de Formación Docente), in 
accordance with the norms governing the Borrower’s Federal Council of Education 
(Consejo Federal de Educación). 
20.
Presentation by the Province’s executive branch to the Bank of draft regulatory 
norms to the Province’s Law No. 6437 of July 18, 1968, which law provides the 
framework for awarding provincial public subsidies to private schools in the Province, 
in accordance with objective criteria relating to school quality, number of students 
and their economic background. 
21.
The Province has designed an audit system which will permit the carrying out of 
annual audits of private schools which would be awarded with the subsidy mentioned in 
paragraph 20 of this Schedule.
22.
The Province’s primary care program for the uninsured population (which program 
consists of: (a) the provision of selected public health interventions, the provision 
of basic maternal and child care services and the provision of other health care 
Page  11
services related to prevalent chronic diseases; and (b) the carrying out of disease 
prevention and health promotion activities) is being carried out in the Province’s 
Zone III. For purposes of this paragraph, "Zone III" means the Province’s Departments 
of Garay and San Javier.
23.
The Province has carried out surveys (under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank) of the uninsured population (covered by the program referred to in paragraph 
22 of this Schedule) with respect to the provision of health care services to said 
population.
24.
(a) The Province has carried out a performance baseline study (under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank) of all fifty five (55) provincial public 
hospitals; and (b) the Province’s Ministry of Health has issued a resolution which 
will permit the staff of said Ministry to monitor and supervise the administrative and 
technical performance of said public hospitals at least every four months during a 
calendar year.
25.
The Province’s Ministry of Health has entered into performance agreements with 
at least seven (7) of the Province’s public hospitals on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia, the obligation of each said hospital to 
comply with the corresponding objectives and  targets set forth in each said 
agreement.
26.
At least seven (7) of the Province’s public hospitals have adopted: (a) a system 
to admit and discharge patients; and (b) a system to identify and bill insured 
patients.
27.
At least sixty percent (60%) of insured patients who have been provided health 
care services in any of the seven (7) public hospitals mentioned in paragraph 25 of 
this Schedule during the six months immediately preceding the Second Tranche Release 
Date have been billed for said services.
28.
The Province has carried out a census of the licensing status of all medical 
professionals performing medical services in the Province’s public medical facilities.
29.
The Province’s health insurance carrier (IAPOS - Instituto Autárquico Provincial 
de Obra Social) has attained, for at least the twelve months immediately preceding the 
Second Tranche Release Date, annual revenues equal to, or greater than, its annual 
expenditures.  For purposes of this paragraph: 
(a) 
"annual revenues" means: (i) revenues from employer and employee pension 
contributions; and (ii) revenues from health insurance beneficiaries’ co-payments; and 
(b) 
"annual expenditures" means expenditures incurred for payments for any 
consideration.
SCHEDULE 4
Provincial Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) (ii) (C) of this Agreement
Public Finances
1.
The Province has attained (as confirmed by the Borrower in writing to the Bank), 
for the period covered by any six (6) continuous months among the eight (8) months 
immediately preceding the Third Tranche Release Date, a provincial public sector 
current balance of at least a positive four percent (4%) of provincial public sector 
current revenues for the same period.  For purposes of this paragraph:
(a)
"provincial public sector" means all components of the provincial public 
sector (except for parastatal enterprises and social security entities) for which 
funding is allocated as part of the annual consolidated provincial budgets approved by 
the Province’s legislature; and
(b)
"current balance" means the difference between current revenues (which 
revenues are hereby defined as: (i) revenues from taxes; (ii) non-tax revenues from 
the sale of goods and services and from property rentals; and (iii) revenues from all 
federal revenue-sharing transfers and revenues from other automatic federal transfers 
to finance current expenditure programs (but excluding fifty percent (50%) of the 
revenues from those automatic transfers which, pursuant to the Borrower’s law,  are 
required to finance capital expenditures (which expenditures are hereby defined as 
expenditures incurred for the acquisition, construction or financing of new or 
Page  12
existing provincial infrastructure))) and current expenditures (which expenditures are 
hereby defined as expenditures incurred for payment of personnel, expenditures 
incurred for the use of goods, facilities and services, expenditures incurred for 
interest on public sector debts and transfers for which there is no consideration).
2.
The Province’s principal outstanding on its public sector debt (as of no earlier 
than thirty (30) days prior to the Third Tranche Release Date, and including overdue 
amounts owed by the Province to its employees and suppliers) is, as confirmed by the 
Borrower in writing to the Bank, equal to, or less than, fifty percent (50%) of 
provincial public sector current revenues. For purposes of this paragraph, 
(a)
"provincial public sector" means all components of the provincial public 
sector (except for parastatal enterprises and social security entities) for which 
funding is allocated as part of the annual consolidated provincial budgets approved by 
the Province’s legislature; and
(b) 
"current revenues" means: (i) revenues from taxes; (ii) non-tax revenues 
from the sale of goods and services and from property rentals; and (iii) revenues from 
all federal revenue-sharing transfers and revenues from all other automatic federal 
transfers.
Public Administration
3.
(a) The Province’s legislature has approved the law referred to in paragraph 3 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (b) the Province’s executive branch has issued 
regulations to said law.
4.
The Province’s legislature has approved, for the calendar year in which the 
Third Tranche Release Date falls, an annual budget of at least twenty million Dollars 
($20,000,000) equivalent for routine maintenance of provincial roads, provided, 
however, that if the Third Tranche Release Date falls on the same calendar year in 
which the Second Tranche Release Date falls, the annual budget amount to be approved 
by the Province’s legislature for routine maintenance is at least the amount referred 
to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. For purposes of this paragraph, 
"routine maintenance" means the recurrent maintenance to be provided each year by the 
Province to a road during the life period of said road. 
5.
The Province has established a computerized system whereby the tax forms for the 
provincial gross receipts tax are available to the taxpayers through said system.
6.
The Province is complying with the provisions set forth in Article 30 of the 
Province’s Law No. 11.876 of December 28, 2000 with respect to the gradual elimination 
of  the payroll tax rate established pursuant to the Province’s Law No. 5110 (Aportes 
Sociales) of  October 29, 1959, as amended.
7.
In case the total number of capital stock (issued by Energía de Santa Fe 
Sociedad Anónima) referred to in paragraph 10 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement has been 
purchased by one or more private investors, the Province’s executive branch shall have 
furnished to its legislature, for approval, the names of the candidates (nominated by 
the Province’s executive branch) to the council (Consejo Directivo) of  the Province’s 
regulatory entity for the energy sector (Ente de Regulación y Control de la 
Electricidad).
8.
In case ten percent (10%) or more of the capital stock (issued by Energía de 
Santa Fe Sociedad Anónima) referred to in paragraph 10 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement 
has been purchased by one or more private investors, the Province shall have: (a) 
issued regulations to operate the funds referred to in Article 121 of the Province’s 
Law No. 11.727 mentioned in said paragraph; and (b) furnished to the Bank a report 
with respect to the operation of the funds mentioned in subparagraph (a) herein.
9.
The Province is complying with all mitigatory measures, if any, identified by 
the assessments referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Social Sectors
10.
The Province’s legislature has approved, for the calendar year in which the 
Third Tranche Release Date falls, an annual budget of at least fifty million nine 
hundred thousand Dollars ($50,900,000) equivalent for its Secretariat for Community 
Promotion (Secretaría de Estado de Promoción Comunitaria). 
11.
The Province has prepared an action plan for reform of each social assistance 
program which has been evaluated under paragraph 13 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, 
Page  13
each said plan to be based on the corresponding evaluation carried out under said 
paragraph. 
12.
The Province’s registry of social program beneficiaries: (a) is operational; and 
(b) includes at least all beneficiaries of its provincial social assistance program (
Programa Provincial de Ayuda Social Solidaria Santa Fe) and the social programs 
evaluated under paragraph 13 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
13.
The Province’s legislature has approved, for the calendar year in which the 
Third Tranche Release Date falls, an annual budget for the education sector which is 
no less than the approved annual budget by the Province’s legislature for said sector 
for the calendar year 2001.
14.
The personnel records of all school staff (said staff to include school 
teachers, auxiliaries and school directors) employed in primary and secondary schools 
of the Province’s public education system are recorded and maintained in a 
computerized comprehensive single personnel file (legajo único electrónico - Sistema 
de Administración de Recursos Humanos (SARH)), with one such separate file for each 
such staff member, which files serve as the cornerstone for school staff 
administration for said education system.
15.
The personnel records of all students enrolled in primary and secondary schools 
of the Province’s public education system are recorded and maintained in a 
computerized comprehensive single personnel file (legajo único electrónico - Sistema 
de Gestión y Administración Escolar (SIGAE)), with one such separate file for each 
such student, which files serve as the cornerstone for student administration for said 
education system.
16.
The Province is distributing school staff in accordance with the information 
obtained by the Province’s Ministry of Education from the integration of the 
computerized comprehensive single personnel files referred to in paragraph 17 of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
17.
All of the Province’s public secondary schools have adopted school development 
plans, each said plan to be designed taking into account the results of the national 
achievement test (ONE - Operativos Nacionales de Evaluación de Calidad) taken by the 
students enrolled in the corresponding secondary schools.
18.
The Province is implementing, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the action 
plan referred to in paragraph 19 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
19.
(a) Issuance by the Province’s executive branch of  the regulatory norms 
referred to in paragraph 20 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (b) the Province is 
implementing, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the norms referred to in 
subparagraph (a) herein. 
20.
The Province has established the audit system referred to in paragraph 21 of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
21.
The Province’s primary care program referred to in paragraph 22 of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement is being carried out in the Province’s Zone III and in other zones of 
the Province in which said primary care program is benefiting an additional one 
hundred fifty thousand (150,000) uninsured citizens. For purposes of this Schedule, 
"Zone III" means the Province’s Departments of Garay and San Javier.
22.
For the period covered by the six (6) continuous months preceding the Third 
Tranche Release Date: (a) at least sixty percent (60%) of all children living in Zone 
III have been included in the Province’s primary care program referred to in paragraph 
22 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (b) at least two (2) on-site audits of all health 
providers which are providing health services (under the program referred to in 
paragraph 22 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement) to the Province’s uninsured population 
living in  Zone III  have been carried out; and (c) all women with four months (4) or 
more of pregnancy living in the Province’s Zone III have had at least two prenatal 
controls. 
23.
At least four (4) of the seven (7) public hospitals referred to in paragraph 25 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement (which have signed performance agreements with the 
Province’s Ministry of Health) have been able to achieve for at least seventy percent 
(70%) of the corresponding objectives set forth in each agreement at least fifty 
percent (50%) of the corresponding targets for said objectives. 
24.
All fifty five (55) public hospitals referred to in paragraph 24 (a) of Schedule 
Page  14
3 to this Agreement have adopted a cost-recovery system.
25.
At least eighty (80%) of insured patients who have been provided health care 
services in any of the seven (7) public hospitals mentioned in paragraph 25 of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement during the six months immediately preceding the Third 
Tranche Release Date have been billed for said services.
26.
The Province has attained, during the six months preceding the Third Tranche 
Release Date, a twenty percent (20%) reduction in the number of health facilities 
operating without accreditation.
27.
The Province’s executive branch has issued a norm which will permit the 
re-licensing of health care providers.
28.
The Province has carried out, during the twelve (12) months immediately 
preceding the Third Tranche Release Date, random field-control audits of at least five 
(5) percent of health care providers registered in the Province’s Ministry of Health 
registry.
29.
 The Province’s insurance carrier (IAPOS - Instituto Autárquico Provincial de 
Obra Social) has attained, for at least the twelve months immediately preceding the 
Third Tranche Release Date, annual revenues equal to, or greater than, its annual 
expenditures.  For purposes of this paragraph: (a) "annual revenues" means: (i) 
revenues from employer and employee pension contributions; and (ii) revenues from 
health insurance beneficiaries’ co-payments; and (b) "annual expenditures" means 
expenditures incurred for payments for any consideration. 
