Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6865-RU
TECHNICAL ANNEX
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
COAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
June 5, 1996



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Figures are as of end of period)
CURRENCY UNIT = RUBLE (RB)                          RUBLES PER US$
1991                                               169
1992                                               415
1993                                              1,247
1994                                             3,550
1995                                             4,640
May 1996                                         5,031
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system is used
ACRONYMS, ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy          MEPNR    Ministry of Environmental
CBOs       Community Based Organizations                   Protection and Natural Resources
COB        State Committee on Bankruptcy        MOL        Ministry of Labor
CSEP       Community Support and
Employment Programs                  PIU        Project Implementation Unit
PPU        Project Preparation Unit
EA         Environmental Assessment
EFF        Extended Fund Facility               NGOs       non-governmental organizations
NS         National Shopping
FES        Federal Employment Services
FPP        Fund for Project Preparation         PHRD       Policy and Human Resources
Development Fund
GDP        gross domestic product
GKI        State Property Committee             REFORM- The Foundation For Promotion Of
GOR        Government of Russian                UGOL       Restructuring The Coal Industry
Federation
SA         Social Assessment
IAC        Inter-Agency Commission for          SCL        single currency loan
Socio-Economic Problems of           SECAL    Sector Adjustment Loan
Coal-Producing Regions               SIM        Social Impact Monitoring
JGF        Japanese Grant Facility              TA         Technical Assistance
LIBOR      London Interbank Offer Rate          USAID      United States Agency for
International Development
MOE        Ministry of Economy
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MFE        Ministry of Fuels and Energy



RussIAN FEzDERAnON
COAL SECrOR RESTRUCTURING IMPlMENTATION ASSISTANCE PROJEcr
TECICAL ANNEX
CONTENTS
Page No.
CHArrER
I.  COAL SECTOR RESTRUCURING PROGRAM              ............................... 1
Il. THE PRoJECT .................................................. 7
III. PRoJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS  ...     ...........  17
IV. PROJECr ACCOUNTING, FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING .................  21
ANNEX
1 STAKEHOLDERS' PARTICIPATION  ......................................  23
2 INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS: DRAFr TERMS OF REFERENCE ........................  35
3 SOCIAL ASSESSMENT: DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE .........................  43
4 SOCIAL IMPACT MONITORING: DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE ....................  47
5 IMPLEMENTATION OF SocIAL SAFETY NET GUIDELINES: TERMS OF REFERENCE ... .....  53
6 MANAGEMENT OF STATE FINANCING FOR THE COAL INDUSTRY: DRAFT TERMS OF
REFERENCE ...................................................  65
7 SPECIAL PURPOSE AUDITS OF STATE FINANCING FOR THE COAL SECTOR: TERMS OF
REFERENCE    ...................................................    71
8 PREPARATION OF BUSINESS PLANS: DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE .................  85
9 MANAGEMENT/FlNANCIAL TRAINING: DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE ...............  89
10 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ON TRUST MANAGEMENT: DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE ... ....  93
11 ENCOURAGING INVESTMENT IN THE RUSSIAN COAL INDUSTRY: DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE 97
12 TA ON MINE CLOSURE PROPOSALS: DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE ................  99



13 MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION: DRAFr TERMS OF REFERENCE ... ...... 103
14 PROJECT PROCUREMENT AND MANAGEMENT ADVISORY SERVICES: DRAFr TERMS OF
REFERENCE   ...................................................   105
SCHEDULE
A. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
B. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
C. MONITORING AND EVALUATION INDICATORS
D. INDICATIVE SUPERVISION PLAN



COAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNECAL ANNEX
I. COAL SECTOR REsTRucTuRING PROGRAM
A. GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY
1.1          The Government of the Russian Federation has prepared a large scale restructuring
program aimed at transforming the coal industry into a sustainable and competitive sector of the
economy. The program is designed to improve coal industry efficiency by creating a non-
monopolized organizational structure which would include strong regional coal companies. In
addition to this, the program stipulates a shift in the focus of coal subsidies from financing
wages and uneconomic mines to restructuring of coal companies in a manner that is clear,
transparent and monitorable. Unlike coal industry restructuring programs in other countries
where coal production capacities were reduced by up to 80-90%, the coal industry in Russia
after restructuring is expected to remain one of the largest in the world.
1.2          The Government has demonstrated a substantial commitment to coal sector reform
over the past few years, including: (a) liberalization of coal prices;1' (b) a significant reduction
in the levels of subsidies in real terms; (c) reduction of RosUgol's role in the allocation and
distribution of subsidies;2' (d) the issuance of a Presidential Decree which allows organizations
other than Rosugol to act as trust managers for the state shares in regional coal companies; and
(e) commencement of downsizing and other measures to increase efficiency, including cessation
of coal production at 37 loss-making mines which have no prospects for economic viability and
a significant reduction in the total workforce (by 20% over the past four years). In sum, the
initial restructuring efforts have begun to pay off, and coupled with sharp increases in domestic
coal prices toward the end of 1995, the industry as a whole reported Rbl.5 trillion of net income
in 1995 and an increase in labor productivity by 11 percent.
1.3          Long Term Strategy, 1996-2000. In July 1995, the Inter-Agency Commission for
Socio-Economic Problems of Coal-Producing Regions (IAC) issued a consensus document on
Basic Trends for Coal Restructuring (Basic Trends). The main elements of the Government's
long term strategy are:
1/    In July 1993, the Government took the first major step towards restructuring the coal industry, viz., all
federal administrative controls on coal prices were removed. This first step was not fully effective,
since RosUgol retained the power to influence individual coal prices by directing smaller or larger
subsidy flows to individual coal companies.
2/    Specifically, about 90% of the subsidies are currently distributed by the Treasury Departments of the
Federal and regional governments. Moreover, the Coal Commission will start allocating quarterly
subsidies (broken down on a monthly basis) starting from the third quarter of 1996.



2                                                                           Chapter I
(i)   Subsidies. Subsidies to loss-making mines will be gradually withdrawn.
Alternative sources of funding will be used to finance maintenance of social assets and
to increase expenditure on social programs that support coal restructuring.
(ii)  Investment. Modernization, rehabilitation and expansion will have to rely more
on internal financing by coal companies, loans, direct private domestic and foreign
investment and extra-budgetary sources, in addition to state support.
(iii)  Mine Closures. At least 90 loss-making mines (overall capacity 60 million
tons/year, with total direct workforce of 83,000 people) will be closed.
(iv)   Workforce Reductions. Closure of loss-making companies and modernization of
remaining mines will result in reduction of the workforce by 100,000 people, or 20%
against the 1994 level. Further reduction of the workforce by 175,000 people will take
place as non-core production activities are divested.
(v)   Social Protection. The main goal of social protection of redundant miners is to
provide transitional assistance in parallel with programs to create new, unsubsidized jobs.
(vi)   Change Management. The federal and regional authorities, in cooperation with
RosUgol, RosTopProm and local coal companies, will restructure the system of state
support and management of the coal industry.
(vii)  Commercialization and Demonopolization. The coal industry will consist of a
number of independent, competing coal companies that are self-financed on a long term
basis. RosUgol will be transformed into a joint stock company whose goals reflect the
goals of coal sector restructuring.
1.4         Medium  Term  Goals. In the period since Basic Trends was issued, the
Government has prepared a set of intermediate goals for 1996-97. In particular, coal subsidies
were reduced in real terms in 1996 and Government announced its intention to reduce them
again in 1997 by at least 15% in real terms. Government also announced a target of 30% for
the share of coal subsidies to be allocated to downsizing/restructuring in 1996, followed by a
substantial increase in this share in 1997. In addition, Government transferred the responsibility
for allocating coal subsidies from RosUgol to the IAC and announced monitoring and auditing
systems to ensure that coal subsidies are received and used for their designated purposes.
Further, starting in mid-1995, the regions have been submitting draft Regional Coal
Restructuring Programs to the IAC as a basis for future funding of restructuring costs and
associated social programs. The IAC has now approved programs for five of the nine major coal
basins. Finally, in February 1996, a Presidential Decree was issued that empowers Government
to strengthen the regional coal companies and to assign trust management of the state's



Chapter I                                                                           3
shareholding in these companies to various trust agents.2' The Government intends to use these
powers during 1996 and 1997 to appoint a number of new trust agents to manage the
restructuring and privatization of selected regional companies.
1.5         Government's Short Term Action Program, 1996. For the immediate future, the
Government has a detailed program of actions for the second half of 1996 and early 1997. This
program consists of: (i) targets for reducing coal subsidies and refocusing remaining subsidies
on downsizing/restructuring; (ii) changes in employment policies in the coal industry to minimize
the need for compulsory redundancies; (iii) an acceleration of mine closure completions - but
with increased attention to social safeguards; (iv) a substantial reinforcement of the social safety
net in coal regions - in the form of new community employment and labor mobility programs
and improved delivery of basic social services; (v) new initiatives to promote public participation
in the coal restructuring program and to monitor the social impacts of the program; (vi) a
systematic program to strengthen the independence of regional/local coal companies; and (vii)
additional support for the IAC to- implement the coal restructuring program.
B. THE PROPOSED COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
1.6         The proposed Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL), in an amount of US$500
million equivalent, will help the Government put in place a consistent policy and institutional
framework for the continuous and socially sustainable restructuring of the sector and provide
assistance in implementing the initial steps of the overall restructuring program of the coal
sector. In particular, the Coal SECAL will support:
a program for the progressive reduction and eventual elimination of subsidies
through (i) the elimination of subsidies for operating losses and investment, (ii)
the redirection of remaining subsidies towards restructuring and related social
programs, and (iii) the establishment of a transparent mechanism for the
allocation and effective monitoring of subsidies;
*     special Community Support and Employment Programs in areas where coal-
related unemployment is expected to be high; and
*     the development and initial implementation of measures intended to commercialize
and de-monopolize the coal sector.
1.7         The Coal SECAL  would be accompanied by the proposed Coal Sector
Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project to provide the necessary institutional support
critical for the success of the Program. The proposed Coal SECAL will be disbursed against
satisfactory implementation of the coal reform program, including compliance with stipulated
tranche release conditions. Disbursements will not be linked to any specific purchases, but will
3/    Presidential Decree No. 168, February 9, 1996, 'On Measures Regarding the Further Improvement of
the Structure of the Coal Industry of the Russian Federation", empowers the Government to move
forward with demonopolization of the coal industry.



4                                                                           Chapter I
be subject to a negative list. Tranche release review and program supervision will ensure that
the restructuring program supported under the Coal SECAL is carried out as agreed, including
timely provision of resources by the Government to meet the costs of program implementation.
The first tranche (US$250 million equivalent) release is scheduled upon Loan effectiveness,
expected in July 1996. Disbursement of the second tranche (US$250 million equivalent),
anticipated before the end of 1996, would be contingent on a review, satisfactory to the Bank,
of (i) macroeconomic performance; (ii) the successful implementation of the reform program as
a whole; and (iii) the fulfillment of specific second tranche release conditions.
1.8         The objectives announced in Basic Trends for Coal Restructuring have now been
largely translated into specific targets, mechanisms and dates. The key elements of the
restructuring program supported by the proposed Coal SECAL include the following:
i.    A schedule of state support to the coal industry for the second half of 1996 would
be made public, and state financing for the coal sector would continue to be reduced in
1997;
ii.   state support funds for investment will be available on a non-reimbursable basis
only for projects where construction began before January 1, 1996. For all other
investment projects in the coal industry, state support will be available on a repayable
basis only;
iii.   state support for operating losses will be available only to coal companies that
have reduced the number of vacancies so as to limit total recruitment in any quarter to
less than 1 % of the total number of employees;
iv.   the Federal Employment Services would establish, by the end of September 1996,
the capability to deliver pre-redundancy services including advance notice and counselling
to all workers in the coal industry threatened with redundancy;
v.   the IAC would approve and make public a Demonopolization Program  to
conclude, by December 31, 1996, the appointment of new Trust Managers. These
measures will include the issuance, by October 31, 1996, to potential bidders for trust
management contracts all of the information required by them for the preparation of bids.
The companies for which new Trust Managers will be appointed by December 31, 1996
will be selected so that their aggregate production of coal in 1995 would not be less than
65 million tons, i.e., approximately 25% of the Russian coal industry; and
vi.  the IAC would make public the indicators and arrangements for social impact
monitoring, financial monitoring, and auditing of a set of subsidy recipients.
a.     Social Impact Indicators include:
*     access to severance compensation specified in the Employment Law
*     availability and accessibility of training, re-training, job placement and job
counselling services



Chapter I                                                                         5
*     access to adequate level of social services in the course of sector
restructuring
*     access to heating, housing maintenance and utilities
*     access to and availability of information on social safety measures prior
to departures from the sector (whether voluntary or not)
*     provision of pre-redundancy counselling at mines announced for closure,
and
*     adequacy of participation / representation in relevant decisions.
b.    Financial Impact Indicators include agreed data on:
*     Subsidies
*     Output.and employment
*     Revenues and Expenditures
*     Receivables and Payables, and
*     Capital expenditure.
c.    Special Purpose Audits will be carried out in accordance with International
Auditing Standards and will determine whether or not:
*     financial reports and related supporting schedules prepared by the entities
being audited give a true and fair view of the financial situation of
resources and expenditures related to state financing;
*     financial information is presented in accordance with established or stated
criteria by the Government and by RosUgol;
*     the use of state financing for each subcategory of subsidies has complied
with the relevant laws, regulations, policies and contractual agreements;
and
*     the audited entities' internal control systems used in administering state
financing are adequate.
vii.  no state support for operating losses would be made available to coal mines which
have recruited employees in excess of 1 % of their respective total number of employees
during such period;
viii.  initiation of the operation of the regional offices of the Federal Employment
Services, in all regions where mines are being closed, with adequate capacity to deliver
pre-redundancy services free of charge to employees prior to cessation of coal production
for all coal industry employees of mines whose closure has been announced; and
ix.   the Government would establish the necessary institutional framework, which
includes the participation of the Federal Employment Services, and would initiate the
activities of the Community Support and Employment Programs in the Kuzbass, Eastern
Donbass, Pechora, Moscow region and Kisel coal basins.
1.9         Environmental Assessment. Environmental issues are potentially important in
mine closures. The Bank undertook an extensive review of the environmental problems of the
coal industry in preparing the 1994 sector report. This review concluded that the most serious



6                                                                         Chapter I
environmental problems in mining areas were linked to the burning of coal rather than to mining
activities per se. Apart from a small number of localized issues, the main weaknesses in the
environmental performance of mining were the consequence of poor incentives and bad
management that sustained inefficient mining practices encouraged by a focus on meeting output
targets. Thus, reform of incentives and operating procedures combined with the closure of the
most inefficient mines, which tend to cause disproportionate environmental damage, will reduce
the environmental damage caused by the industry.
1.10        Specific measures will be required to ensure that mine closures occur in an orderly
manner that takes account of the need to cap operating or disused shafts, to minimize risks
associated with the accumulation of gas in old mine workings, and to deal with any problems
following the flooding of old workings. Design institutes and other organizations have experience
in preparing plans and implementing the appropriate measures, though there is a tendency to opt
for over-elaborate schemes which concentrate too much on the recovery of equipment that cannot
be economically justified.



COAL SECTOR REsTRuC'URiNG IMPLEMENTATION ASSsrANCE PROJECT
TECCAL ANNEX
II. THE PROJECT
A. PRoJEcT OBJECTIVES
2.1         As a companion project to the proposed Coal SECAL, this project aims to
enhance the effectiveness in implementation of the coal sector restructuring program through
assistance to the Government, affected people and organizations. Specifically, the project has
the following objectives: (a) improvements in management of the restructuring process through
increased participation of stakeholders as well as enhancement in transparency and openness; (b)
in the short run, filling critical skill gaps in a number of key areas which are essential to design
the details and implement the restructuring program effectively; and (c) in the long run,
strengthen the country's institutional capacity to sustain reform. The output and impact of the
Project would be monitored and the key indicators are presented in Schedule C. The indicative
supervision plan is in Schedule D.
B. PRoJEcT DESCRIPIION
2.2         The Project would build upon ongoing efforts which provide support for the
implementation of the coal sector restructuring program and assistance to the affected people and
organizations. Based on the results of consultation with key stakeholders, including social
assessment in two coal basins (Pechora and the Kuzbass) affected by the mine closures, the
project would comprise the following main components:
(a)   support for stakeholders participatory activities, including support for: (i) the
Government's efforts to improve industrial relations and social partnership in the
coal sector; (ii) the IAC (both federal and regional commissions); (iii) trade
unions; (iv) local governments and the Association of Mining Cities; (v)
independent coal enterprises and their association; and (vi) public relations to
enhance trust and to create reform constituencies;
(b)   social programs, including: (i) continuous social assessment and social impact
monitoring in coal mining regions; (ii) provision of consultant services, training
and computer equipment for the design of improvements in social protection of
coal industry employees, management of social asset operation and maintenance
as well as design of community support and employment programs in Kuzbass,
Eastern Donbass, Pechora, Moscow and Kisel coal basins; and (iii)
implementation of pilot activities of community support and employment
programs in the above five coal mining basins;
(c)   strengthening subsidy management to enhance transparency and financial
accountability through provision of consultant services and computer equipment



8                                                                            Chapter [
for improvements in: (i) allocation; (ii) reporting; (iii) monitoring; and (iv)
arrangements for independent audits of recipients of state support in accordance
with international auditing standards;
(d)   Technical assistance and training for commercialization and demonopolization of
coal companies, including: provision of consultant services for: (i) the preparation
of business plans of coal companies; (ii) development of a framework for trust
management of mining companies, including preparation of a model agreement;
(iii) the bidding process to select the trust managers; (iv) development of
measures aimed at attracting investments in the coal sector; and (v) management
and financial training;
(e)   Technical assistance and training for environmental management through
provision of consultant services to strengthen the capacity needed for
environmental management, including legal and financial aspects, to remediate the
adverse impacts of coal mines included in the restructuring program;
(f)    Technical assistance for mine closures, including provision of consultant services
for legal, organizational and informational support for the development of
procedures for closure of unprofitable mines; and
(g)   Support to REFORMUGOL, including provision of consultant services and
computer and office equipment to strengthen the capacity of REFORMUGOL.
Participatory Activities
2.3          The general framework for participation strategy in support of the Government
Coal Sector Restructuring Program is outlined in the Social Assessment report. The basic
elements of this strategy include:
a)    Information/communication support to the Program, focusing primarily on the
empowerment of the miners, their families and their communities through (i)
provision of information on the Program; (ii) clarify the roles and responsibilities
of local, regional and Federal institutions in implementation of reforms and in the
delivery of social safety packages defined by the Coal Sector Restructuring
Program, and to help create trust in these institutions; and (iii) enhancement of
transparency in reform implementation;
b)    Public relations support to create and sustain constituency for reform and help
broaden ownership of reform objectives; public and government relations support
to legislative changes that may be put in place to enhance geographical and job
mobility;
c)    Support to  consultative  local institutions representing  interests of key
stakeholders, in particular of miners and their communities; and



Chapter II                                                                          9
d)    Continuous social assessment and social impact monitoring to have feedback from
the most directly affected populations.
2.4          The proposed program to support stakeholders participation is presented in Annex
1 and the draft Terms of Reference for technical assistance and training in industrial relations
are in Annex 2.
Social Programs
2.5          Social Assessment and Social Impact Monitoring. Social assessment conducted
in two coal mining regions (Pechora and Kuzbass) in connection with closure of unprofitable
mines indicated a number of shortcomings in the existing system of social protection of laid-off
workers and the need for improvement. Given the significant diversity among the various coal
mining regions, it is necessary to expand social assessment to the other regions where mine
closures take place. Continued social assessment and social impact monitoring will allow for the
consideration of specific local features related to the social impact of the restructuring, define
concretely the measures for social protection of the laid-off workers and their families,
pensioners and disabled worked in the coal industry, contribute to enhancement of transparency
in the use of state support allocated by the government for the measures connected with mine
closing and provide public support to the reforms in coal industry. The draft Terms of Reference
for social assessment and social impact monitoring are in Annexes 3 and 4, respectively.
Social Safety Net Policy Framework
2.6          Starting in mid 1995, coal regions have been submitting draft Regional Coal
Restructuring Programs to the IAC for approval. These programs include proposals for
incremental social programs in coal regions and for transfer of social assets (mainly housing,
kindergartens and health clinics) from coal companies to regional or local governments. At
present, the incremental social programs remain unfunded. Further, the funding of social asset
operating costs after transfer to local government remains unclear. In the second half of 1996
IAC will consider possible options to address these problems. The measures of the government
in Social Policy include: (a) social protection of coal industry employees and residents of the
coal regions, and (b) the development of social infrastructure in mining communities.
2.7          Social Protection. The main actions in the field of social protection include: (a)
the provision of social guarantees, benefits and compensation for workers made redundant during
restructuring, members of their families, pensioners and disabled people retired from the coal
industry, and (b) measures to promote employment opportunities and skills in areas affected by
the restructuring of the coal industry. Russia has a system of social guarantees for people made
redundant from enterprises. The Government will ensure that:
*     employees made redundant from mines receive statutory severance payments and
compensation in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Law;
*     various ministries and agencies participating in the creation, financing and
implementation of social programs during mass layoffs coordinate their assistance.



10                                                                         Chapter II
2.8         Employees at the mines announced for restructuring or closure will be offered
counseling free of charge. These counseling services will be organized by the Federal
Employment Services (FES), financed by the mine out of funds provided by the IAC. They will
be designed with the involvement of workers, management and local authorities and will include
(a) an agreed procedure for advance notice of redundancy, and (b) a rapid response mechanism
which uses a joint consultative approach where trained advisors will work with employees and
with the local communities.
2.9         In the second half of 1996 the Government will establish pilot Community Support
and Employment Programs in Kuzbass, Eastern Donbass, Pechora, Moscow and Kisel coal
basins using funds allocated for social protection expenditures of state support to the coal
industry. These programs would include social projects and measures on assistance for
employment. The primary recipients of the funds allocated for these programs will be the
governments of Subjects of the Russian Federation where the above-mentioned regions are
located. The ultimate recipients will be the organizations authorized by the local governments.
The FES will participate in the design and implementation of these Community Support and
Employment Programs and the resources of local Employment Funds will be used in conjunction
with them.
2.10        State financing will support a range of programs such as (a) the repair of the
social and environmental infrastructure, (b) the creation of small business opportunities, (c)
retraining, (d) job counseling and search, and (e) other initiatives to create new jobs in viable
enterprises. The programs will be a part of regional programs for socioeconomic development
of coal mining regions and coal industry restructuring. Special attention will be given to the
needs of communities dominated by single mine enterprises, where coal restructuring will also
have a severe impact on non-mining families. Starting from 1997 programs of Community
Support will be implemented in all coal basins.
2.11        Suppoit for Social Infrastructure. The government policy proceeds from the fact
that restructuring of coal industry should not mean the deterioration in volume or quality of
social services provided to people residing in mining communities. In the course of restructuring
the following issues will be resolved with the help of funds allocated from state support:
completing the transfer of social assets and housing owned by coal companies to municipal
authorities; provision of stable operation of the social assets transferred to the local governments;
demolition or renovation of dilapidated housing.
2.12        In order to provide adequate finance for the operation and maintenance of social
assets in the coal mining regions the Government will allocate the funds of state support for
maintenance and renovation of the social assets. Work to be financed from these resources may
include wage payments to social asset workers, urgent rehabilitation of utility networks,
winterization of residential and communal buildings, repayment of debts to utilities, repairs to
health and education facilities, and the purchase of fuel.



Chapter II                                                                      11
2.13        In August 1996, the IAC will consider a report on completing the transfer of all
social assets from mines to local authorities to be prepared jointly by RosUgol and regional/local
authorities in coal basins.
2.14        Implementation of Social Safety Net Guidelines. This component will provide
assistance to design and assist with the implementation of the provision of the Coal SECAL for
social protection in 5 regions of the Russian Federation where mines will close. The delivery
of pre-redundancy counselling and mass layoff services in mines will be undertaken by the FES
through its network of regional and local offices. The FES has already developed a range of
programs and materials which would be of use in these activities. Two other major actions are
included as actions for tranche release in the SECAL : the Social Assets Operation and
Maintenance Program and the Community Support and Employment Programs in 5 towns in the
coal basins where mines are scheduled to close. As a matter of priority, a mechanism should
be designed to channel state financing to the five coal basins. The Terms of Reference for
consultancy services to design this mechanism, along with TA and training to the municipal
governments to strengthen management of social assets transferred from the coal companies, are
presented in Annex 5.
2.15        Pilot Activities for Community Suppoil and Employment Programs.  The
proposed Project would support implementation of pilot activities based on new mechanisms for
community support and employment programs in Kuzbass, Eastern Donbass, Pechora, Moscow
and Kisel coal basins. This would allow various stakeholders, notably community-based
organizations (CBOs) and non-governmental organizations (NGOs), the means of requesting
government support for new ideas. Existing CBO and NGO activity is as responsive as it can
be with limited funding and support. Background information on CBOs and NGOs are attached
(Annex 1). In enhancing the internal structures of the local groups, it is important that
community based programs and provision of services for which the groups were initially
established be supported. As a condition of disbursement for this component, the Borrower
would have to submit to the Bank the citeria applicable to the selection of the activities to be
carred out and the proposed implementation arrangements, both acceptable to the Bank.
Subsidy Management
2.16        Recent improvements in subsidy management include the following:
(1)   a significant reduction in the levels of subsidies in real terms (from 1.4% of GDP
in 1993 to 0.4% of GDP in 1995);
(2)   demonopolization of RosUgol 's role in the allocation and distribution of subsidies.
Specifically, about 90% of the subsidies are currently distributed by the Treasury
Departments of the Federal and regional governments. Moreover, the Coal
Commission will start allocating quarterly subsidies (broken down on a monthly
basis) starting from the third quarter of 1996; and
(3)   increased transparency, reporting, monitoring and audits: according to the
"Regulation of the Mechanism of State Support to the Russian Coal Sector (May



12                                                                         Chapter nI
1996)", "state reporting of actual allocated amounts and results of their
utilization, regular audit, and publication of financial reports are introduced for
all levels (stages) of allocation and utilization of the state support funds".
2.17        TA on Subsidy Management. Consultancy services would be provided under the
Project to support the establishment of an improved computerized system for allocation,
reporting and monitoring of the subsidy management system, including recommendations for
improvements with respect to the following aspects: (i) contractual arrangements between the
primary recipients and ultimate recipients in subsidy management; and (ii) economic and social
indicators on the impact of subsidy uses. The draft Terms of Reference for TA on subsidy
management are attached in Annex 6.
2.18        In addition, as a follow up program to the diagnostic review to be carried out by
the auditor (para. 2.19), financial consultants would be mobilized to strengthen the financial
control of subsidies. While the above capacity building efforts may take time, recent progress
achieved in increased transparency and proposed auditing of significant subsidy recipients would
be conducive to positive behavioral changes toward financial accountability and discipline.
2.19        Audits. As part of the program  to enhance the transparency and financial
accountability in subsidy management, a special purpose audit on selected subsidy recipients for
the first six months of 1996 will start around July 1996. The implementation arrangements are
summarized as follows:
(a)   the IAC has compiled a list of five primary and ultimate recipients of the state
support which will be audited in 1996. Key criteria for selection of organizations
to be audited would include (i) the magnitude of subsidy received; and (ii)
diversity of organizations beyond the coal producing companies. The five
organizations are: RosUgol; RostovUgol; VorkutaUgol; AIK "Sokolovskaya" and
Kuzbasslnvestugol;
(b)   the Project Preparation Unit (PPU) will organize the tender for auditors with the
assistance of a PHRD-financed advisor.  The auditor should have a high
international reputation and comply with international auditing standards. The
Terms of Reference are attached in Annex 7. The auditing firm will be selected
on a competitive basis in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for selection of
consultants as well as for accounting, reporting and audit. Appointment of the
selected auditor is scheduled for July 1996. The audit fees would be financed
under the Bank loan; and
(c)   the auditor would conduct special purpose audits to verify the compliance with
Russian laws and regulations and review the internal control systems of the
subsidy recipients. Such a diagnostic review would be followed up by a second
phase technical assistance in strengthening the financial control of the subsidy
recipients. The audit report is scheduled to be submitted to the IAC by end-
October 1996. Submission of the above audit report to the Bank would be a
condition of second tranche release of the proposed Coal SECAL.



Chapter II                                                                      13
Commercialization and Demonopolization of Coal Companies
2.20        The principles and guidelines of reforming the coal industry management system
are set out in "The Basic Trends of the Restructuring". Presidential Decree, No. 168, February
9, 1996, "On Measures to Improve the Structure of the Russian coal industry" is of paramount
importance for the implementation of the above principles and guidelines. In compliance with
the Decree, by end June 1996 the Government will convert the state company Rosugol into an
open joint-stock company.
2.21        By the end of October 1996 the Government will:
(a)   approve rules governing the trust management of state shares in coal companies,
including those covering appointment of new trust managers and their obligations
to the federal authorities;
(b)   transfer to the charter capital of these selected companies the state shares in
related companies, as envisaged in Presidential Decree no. 168; and
(c)   issue to potential bidders for trust management contracts for the selected
companies all of the information required by them for the preparation of their
bids.
2.22        Using this mechanism, by the end of December 1996 the Government will ensure
that new trust managers will control coal companies that produced in aggregate not less than 65
million tons of coal in 1995, i.e., approximately 25% of the volume of coal produced in the
Russian Federation.
2.23        Not later than three months after the competitive selection of trust managers of
state shares in the above-mentioned coal companies, the relevant Federal executive bodies will
review the business plans submitted by the new trust managers.
2.24        As far as other currently operating coal companies and joint-stock companies are
concerned, by end December 1996, the IAC will define measures to accelerate demonopolization
in the coal industry in 1997.
2.25        Preparation of Business Plans. Draft Governmental Decree on reorganization
of RosUgol into an open joint stock company stipulates that transferring state shares to the
charter capital of the coal companies should be implemented in the presence of business plans.
These plans would aim at creating profitable coal companies by means of closure of unprofitable
mines, labor efficiency increase and other measures. It is desirable that business plans include
feasibility studies of investments in coal mining or preparation. Starting from 1997, business
plan will be included in the agreements between leading and end recipients of the state support
as a necessary part of application for state support. Draft Terms of Reference for technical
assistance and training on the following aspects are presented in Annexes 8 - 11: (a) preparation
of Business Plans; (b) management/financial training; (c) trust management; and (d) measures
to attract external financing.



14                                                                       Chapter II
C. PtOJECr ImPLEMENrATioN UNIT
2.26        Functions. The functions of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would include:
(a)   technical, informational and analytical assistance to the IAC;
(b)   assistance to the organization of independent coal companies, institutional reforms
in coal industry, development of entrepreneurship in coal mining regions;
(c)   monitoring of the mechanism of state support, development of the measures for
its improvement, development of the measures for its enhancement, organization
of audit of the recipients of the state support;
(d)   informing the coal industry workers and residents of the coal mining regions
about course of the restructuring;
(e)   comprehensive monitoring of the socioeconomic situation in coal mining regions,
assistance to the development of social partnership in coal mining regions;
(f)   development of the proposals concerning improvement of the system of social
protection of coal industry employees laid-off in connection with the
restructuring, members of their families, pensioners and disabled who worked in
coal industry proposals concerning development of social infrastructure of mining
communities;
(g)   development and implementation of the projects and programs financed by the
international and national organizations and funds;
(h)   assistance to attraction of the investments to the coal industry; and
(i)   educational and legal support to the restructuring of the coal industry.
2.27        Legal Form. The Foundation for Promotion of Restructuring the Coal Industry
(REFORMUGOL) would be established as the PIU in the form of a non-commercial foundation.
The founders would include the State Property Committee (GKI), Federal Center for Project
Finance and Association of Mining Cities. The Presidium of the Coal Commission would be
the Trustee Council overseeing the REFORMUGOL.
2.28        Organization and Management. The PIU will build upon the current Project
Preparation Unit (PPU) in terms of staffing and lessons learned. Staffing of PIU is expected to
be built up gradually, first with the appointment of the Director General, Director for subsidy
management as well as a deputy director to coordinate activities under the proposed Coal Sector
Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project. In addition, other key managers are expected
to be appointed shortly, including two directors to cover: (a) institutional support to the Coal
Commission; and (b) social monitoring and information on restructuring, respectively. The
charter of REFORMUGOL has been reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory.



Chapter 11                                                                    15
Employment of the Director General of REFORMUGOL by the Trustee Council, with
qualfications and experence satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
2.29        In general, technical assistance and training activities under the Project will be
carried out by a partnership of foreign and local consultants, with a view to building up the
capacity of local consultants over time. Pilot activities for community support and employment
programs would include contracting with community based organizations (CBOs) and non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) as implementing agencies, based on an operating procedure
acceptable to the Bank.  The implementation plan, including targeted beneficiaries and
implementation schedule, is presented in Schedule B. The Project would be implemented over
a three-year period. With a view to minimizing implementation delays, a procurement consultant
is being mobilized by the PIU to assist in key procurement activities under the Project.



16                                                                                                               Chapter II



COAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING IMLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
m. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
3.1         The total project cost is estimated at about US$30.8 million, which about US$9.7
million (31 percent) is foreign exchange requirements. Grant financing, including funds from
the United States Agency for International Development (USAID; US$250,000) and the Policy
and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Fund under the Japanese Grant Facility (JGF;
US$425,000), as well as financing (US$2 million) from the Fund for Project Preparation [(FPP),
Portfolio Development Project, Ln 38440] would help finance urgently needed consultancy
services (including procurement, social assessment, public relations, design of community
support and employment programs, mine closure guidelines, development of a framework for
trust management and audits of subsidy recipients) and start-up costs of REFORMUGOL. The
Government of Russian Federation (GOR) would finance the taxes under the project and the rent
of REFORMUGOL (except for the first year rent which would be financed under the Bank
loan), totalling about US$3.1 million equivalent. The balance of the financing requirements,
US$25 million (81 percent), would be met by the proposed Bank loan.
Procurement
3.2         Under the Bank loan, provision is made for consultant services, training and
equipment and related services, including hardware and software to be procured in accordance
with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank as Executing Agency,
published by the Bank in August 1981 (The Consultant Guidelines) and Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in January 1995 (The
Guidelines). The proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table and
set out in detail in Schedule A.
3.3         Goods. To minimize the number of contracts and reduce unit costs, equipment and
materials to be financed under the Loan would be combined into substantial packages to the
extent practicable. However, the office equipment to be included under the project will be used
by a large number of different stakeholders in different regions of the country which are
participating in the implementation of the project. Consequently, there are practical limits to the
packaging of these contracts. Individual contract values estimated at under US$50,000 will be
procured through national shopping. Individual contract values estimated at above US$50,000
but less than US$300,000 will be procured through international shopping by comparing at least
3 quotations from two eligible countries, with the proviso that the aggregate amount of goods
procured through national shopping and international shopping may not exceed US$300,000 and
US$500,000, respectively.
3.4         Consulting Services and Training. Firms and individuals would be selected for
consultant assignments in accordance with the Bank's Consultants Guidelines. Consultant
assignments to be contracted for according to shortlisting procedures are estimated to total $16.4



18                                                                                          Chapter 3
million in approximately forty contracts. As far as practicable, the terms of reference will
combine a variety of related skills and services to increase the size and, therefore, the market
interest in each contract and reduce the number of contracts to be administered. The terms of
reference for all assignments would be subject to the Bank's prior review.
3.5            Stakeholders Support Services. Affected local governments as well as unique and
specialized organizations (trade unions, Association of Mining Cities, independent coal
companies and their association) will be contracted by the PIU to carry out participatory
activities in support of the coal restructuring program, based upon proposals and budgets
acceptable to the Bank, not exceeding US$400,000 per entity and US$ 1.6 million in the
aggregate.
3.6            Recurrent Cost: This would include salaries, utility services, office supplies and
rental of premises of PIU based upon an annual budget acceptable to the Bank.
3.7            Pilot Activities for Community  Support and Employment Programs: This
component would include a wide range of community-based activities, including but not limited
to PIU contracting with non-govemmental organizations (NGOs) and community based
organizations (CBOs) as implementing agencies, based on an operating procedure acceptable to
the Bank.
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREmENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ MILLION)
ProcureFnent Method      Total
Project Element             ICB   IS     OtherA'        NBF      Cost
Goods:
Computers and related equipment              0.5        0.3                     0.8
(0.4)      (0.3)                   (0.6)
Consultancies, Other Specialized                       17.7         2.8        20.5
Assistance and Training W                            (16.3)                   (16.3)
Recurrent Costs of PIU                                  3.4                     3.4
(3.0)                   (3.0)
Other: Pilot Activities of Community                    6.0                     6.0
Support and Employment Programs                      c' (5.0)                  (5.0)
Total                                    0.5       27.4         2.8        30.8
(0.4)     (24.6)                  (25.0)
Note: numbers in parentheses are amounts to be financed by IBRD
Totals may not sum due to rounding
NBF: Includes US$0.425 million of Japanese Grant Fund, US$0.25 million of USAID funds and US$2 million of Fund
for Project Preparation.
IS: International Shopping
a/ Other includes US$0.3 million National Shopping for computers and related office equipment.
b/ Includes US$1.6 million of special support services to stakeholders on basis of evaluated proposals.
c/ Condition of disbursement is to agree with the Bank on modality of implementation arrangements.



Chapter 3                                                                       19
3.8         Bank Review. A project launch seminar is scheduled by July, 1996. The first two
contacts under international shopping and documentation for contracts valued at US$100,000 or
more for consultant firms, and at US$50,000 or more for individual consultants, all single source
contracts, all the proposals for stakeholders, annual budgets for recurrent costs and all plans
under the community based activity, would be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank.
All other contracts would be subject to ex-post reviews selectively.
3.9         Procurement Monitoring. Information on procurement would be collected and
recorded by the PIU to provide: (i) prompt reporting of contract awards by the Borrower; (ii)
full quarterly reports to the Bank; and (iii) changes in procurement schedules, including
advertising, bidding, contract awards and completion dates.
Disbursement
3.10        The Bank would finance: (i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures of imported
goods, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory costs) and 83 percent of costs of other items
obtained locally; (ii) 100 percent, excluding any taxes, of consultant services and agreed training
costs; and (iii) 100 percent of recurrent costs of the PIU, excluding taxes and rent, except for
the first year rent which would be financed by the Bank loan; and (iv) 83 percent of expenditures
of pilot activities of community support and employment programs. As a condition of
disbursement for the pilot activities for the community support and employment programs, the
Borrower would have to submit to the Bank the criteria applicable to the selection of the
ativities to be carnied out and the proposed implementation arrangements, both acceptable to
the Bank.
3.11        During the early stage of project implementation, the initial allocation of the
Special Account would be limited to US$250,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements
under the Loan have reached the level of US$ 1.0 million, the initial allocation may be increased
up to the authorized allocation of US$ 500,000 by submitting the relevant Application for
Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months, and
must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. The
minimum application size for payments directly from the loan account or for issuance of Special
Commitments is 20% of the special account authorized allocation. Minimum application size
until aggregate disbursements reach US$1.0 million will be US$50,000; thereafter, it will be
US$100,000. Withdrawal applications will be fully documented, except for expenditures against
training and (a) goods and services of consulting firms under contracts not exceeding
US$100,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants under contracts not exceeding
US$50,000 equivalent which will be made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs)
detailing the individual transactions. Documentation supporting these expenditures will be held
by the PIU for at least one year after receipt of the audit report by the Bank for the year in
which the last disbursement is made and will be made available for review by the auditors and
to the Bank on request. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998, with
a closing date for the loan on December 31, 1999.



20                                                                                       Chapter 3
3.12                  The proceeds of the loan (in US$ million) would be disbursed as shown
below:
Amount of
Category              Loan Allocated  Percent of Expenditures to be Financed'
(US$ million)
Consultants' Services and Training      14.4       100% of expenditures net of taxes
Computers, Equipment and Other           0 .6      100% of foreign expenditures,
Goods                                              100% of local expenditures (ex-factory costs),
83 % of expenditures for other items procured
locally
Recurrent Costs of PIU                   3.0       100% of local expenditures
Pilot Activities of Community Support
and Employment                           5.0       83% of local expenditures
Unallocated                              2.0
ANNUAL AND CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
Bank's Fiscal Year
(US$ million)
FY97       FY98        FY99        FY00
Amount                      2.5         8.0        9.5         5.0
C u m  u I a t i v e        2.5        10.5       20.0        25.0
Amount



COAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING MPLEMENTATION ASSiSTANCE PRoJEcT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
IV. PROJECT ACCOUNTING, FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDmNG
4.1         Accounting. REFORMUGOL would be responsible for the appropriate accounting
of the funds provided by the Bank under the Project, for reporting on the use of these funds and
for ensuring timely submission of audits of financial statements and reports to the Bank.
4.2         REFORMUGOL would establish an accounting system to provide information on
the proper receipt and use of funds furnished in accordance with the Loan Agreement.
Accounting for all Special Account transactions and all other project accounts will be maintained
in accordance with practices and standards satisfactory to the Bank, with the objective of timely
and accurate accounting of all transactions under the Project.
4.3         Financial Reporting. Financial reporting would be geared to the specific
requirements of the Project and would comprise a full statement of receipts and payments from
the project's inception. Reporting would be in accordance with disbursements classified and
reported under the expenditure categories agreed to by the Borrower and specified in the Loan
Agreement. The REFORMUGOL would submit quarterly financial progress reports, including
a separate report for the Special Account. A Project Completion Report would be submitted to
the Bank by the REFORMUGOL promptly after the conclusion of project activity, and in any
event not later than 6 months after the loan closing date.
4.4         Auditing. An assurance has been obtained that REFORMUGOL's financial
statements and project accounts, including the auditor's opinion on the use of the Special
Account and SOEs, would be audited in accordance with internationally accepted standards
by an independent auditingfirm, acceptable to the Bank. The audit report would be submitted
to the Bank no less than six months after the end of each fiscal year. In the case of SOEs, the
audit report would contain a separate opinion by the auditors as to whether the SOEs submitted
during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.






ANNEXES






COAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING IMLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
RusSIAN FEDERATION
ANNEX 1
STAKEHOLDERS' PARTICIPATION
Objectives of Participation
The proposed participation activities under the Project have the following objectives:
a)       provide miners, their families and communities with adequate and timely
information about the content of the coal sector reform program and its
implementation arrangements; maintain and strengthen support for the reform
program, both in the affected regions and in the country at large;
b)       provide miners with adequate information about their entitlements under
restructuring arrangements and mechanisms for legal recourse; ensure
transparency in implementation arrangements, help avoid discriminatory practices,
and support equitable treatment of all affected social groups (particularly
vulnerable groups such as the disabled);
c)       clarify the roles and responsibilities of local, regional and federal institutions in
reform implementation and delivering social safety services as defined by the
Coal Sector Restructuring Program, and enhance public's trust in these
institutions;
d)       facilitate participation of key stakeholders in decisions concerning the design and
implementation of sector reform; help strengthen the capacity of labor
organizations, NGOs and local institutions to ensure that the interests of miners,
their families and communities are adequately articulated and taken into account;
and
e)       build public support for restructuring one the most complex and socially-sensitive
sectors of the Russian economy.
Strategy for Pailicipation
2.    The general framework for participation strategy in support of the Coal Sector
Restructuring Program is outlined in the Social Assessment reports. The basic elements of this
strategy include:
a)    Information/communication support to the Program, focusing primarily on the
empowerment through information of the miners, their families and their
communities; support to institutions responsible for the provision of such



24                                                                            Annex I
information, help clarify their roles and responsibilities; help enhance
transparency in reform implementation;
b)    Public communication to build and sustain a constituency for reform and help
broaden ownership of reform objectives; public and government relations support
for legislative changes that may be put in place to enhance geographical and job
mobility;
c)    Support to  consultative  local institutions representing  interests of key
stakeholders, in particular of miners and their communities; and
d)    Continuous social assessment and social impact monitoring to obtain feedback
from the most directly affected populations.
Stakeholder Participatory Activities and Public Communication Program
3.    Specific actions to support the objectives and general strategy of participation is presented
below in terms of institutional arrangements and include support to the following stakeholders:
(a)   Government's efforts to improve industrial relations in the coal sector;
(b)   Inter-Agency Coal Commission (Coal Commission, federal and regional levels);
(c)   Local governments and Association of Mining Cities;
(d)   Trade Unions; and
(e)   Independent coal companies and their Association.
4.    All support functions basically consist of having relevant stakeholders (e.g. unions,
municipalities) define their own program in the implementation of the coal sector reform.
Separately, as part of the assistance for social programs, the project would include
implementation of pilot activities for community support and employment programs mainly
through community based organizations (CBOs) and non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
Background information on CBOs and NGOs is attached.
5.    In addition, the implementation of the coal sector restructuring program will be supported
by a public information and communication campaign. The main objectives of the campaign are:
a) familiarizing respective stakeholders and public at large with the coal restructuring program
and its subsequent stages of implementation; b) sharing experiences with coal sector reform
programs in other countries; c) providing information on costs and benefits of restructuring; d)
making public the mechanisms for subsidy allocations and the implications of these allocations;
e) pointing to need for legislative and regulatory support to the restructuring program; and f)
building public support for the restructuring program.
Suppotifor Government's Effoits to Improve Industrial Relations in the Coal Sector
6.    Market oriented industrial relations will require increased attention from Government,
management and labor if the coal sector is to adequately respond to and support the restructuring
process. The current basis for industrial relations in Russian coal are two Tariff Agreements,



Annex 1                                                                             25
"bargained" approximately every two years among each trade union, MOFE and MOL. The IAC
has directed that the agreements be abolished in 1997, leaving huge gaps at all levels in terms
of contracts, worker-manager relations and a working system of industrial relations.
7.    The singular tool now used to enforce these agreements, which affects wages, health and
safety and various benefits, is the strike. It is necessary that a system of industrial relations
commence, and to support this relatively new and evolving social partnership, a series of rapid
responses are proposed to be put in place with the goal of strengthening already existing
structures and addressing gaps which now exist.
8.    This subcomponent, which includes strengthening the role of the Government, would be
complemented by separate project subcomponents: (a) support to trade unions; and (b) assistance
to managers of coal companies with preparation of business plans. The key areas addressed
under this project subcomponent are summarized below. The draft TOR for consultancy services
is attached.
(i)    Collective Bargaining: While collective bargaining is to some extent conducted
at the coal enterprise level, there remain huge gaps in information exchange and
distribution as well as mechanisms for enforcing collective bargaining agreements
at all levels. Collective bargaining is an inherent part of a market coal structure
which will have a pivotal role in the effective operation of the coal sector.
Application of international experience as it pertains will be useful.
(ii)   Conflict Resolution/Negotiation: A combined approach to building reliable
mechanisms and enforcement of negotiations being proposed:
a.    improve existing mechanisms of negotiation and resolution including
contract negotiations outside of collective bargaining, mediation,
dispute/conflict resolution and information distribution on the rights and
responsibilities of parties.
b.    provide training on mediation for currently existing structures in addition
to preparation of materials.
c.    develop and support independent mediation services.
(iii)  Labor Law: Support to lawyers representing parties as well as to trade unions,
management and where necessary, government, in enhancing the information
about the use of the current legal system to improve the legal basis and quality
of industrial relations. Further, to work with the parties and relevant legislatures
in identifying and developing recommendations for laws which will better support
and facilitate the sector's industrial relations.
(iv)   Role of the Government: As market reforms continue, the role of federal, regional
and local government as they relate to industry development, will necessarily
change. In particular, as the coal sector moves toward decreasing state financing



26                                                                           Annex I
and regionalization, the role of the federal government, as in coal sectors
worldwide, will become more regulatory in nature. Proposed support to
government will include assistance to the following key participants:
(a)   Ministry of Labor, in its enhanced role as government mediator over
labor disputes and as an avenue for enforcement of labor law and practice.
Support to the federal and regional offices is important to evolving
relations between industry and government;
(b)   The Duma, in their addressing worker and manager rights and
responsibilities, privatization and industry development. This would
contribute to the timely development of relevant and enforceable law; and
(c)   Ministry of Fuel and Energy, in its growing role in the regulation and
enforcement of health and safety aspects of coal mining, as well as
government policy on coal taxes, duties, and exports.
(v)   Exposure to International Experience: Training in Russia on the above-mentioned
topics will be complemented by participation of workers, managers and
government representatives in relevant specialized fora such as the International
Labor Organization (ILO), International Mining Federation, and International
Coal Export Committees. International participation will permit manager, worker
and government participants to view first hand, the effects of industrial relations
to coal sector development.
9.    Information, training, education materials and program development will require both
local and international experience. This combination of elements, centered on training, will assist
the Russian coal industry in making the difficult transition to a regulated market system. The
proposed program above has been designed to allow for an oversight organization to implement
its various components which are crucial to building an enduring industrial relations structure.
This oversight will ensure regional coordination and responsive programming particular to
involved parties.
10.   The foundation of any industrial relations system  requires an open exchange of
information amongst parties. In order to facilitate this important exchange, round tables,
video/audio taping of training seminars, improving dissemination on government decisions and
other relevant information will all be parts of program components listed above.



Annex 1                                                                            27
Suppoit to the Inter-Agency Coal Commission (IAC)
11.   Under this project, institutional support would be provided to facilitate the operations of
the IAC both at the federal and regional levels though strengthening the administrative capacity
of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). At this point in restructuring, the offices of the IAC
are seen as the basis for regional reform in the coal communities. This would include:
(i)    Facilitating the Operations of the UC. Currently, the IAC lacks an office and
other basic communication facilities. This makes it difficult for it to receive
feedback. During reform implementation, this will also create problems in
Commission's outreach to the regions. One of the functions of the PIU is to
provide technical, informational and analytical assistance to the IAC. For this
purpose, the staffing plan of the PIU includes a Director and two staff to provide
the necessary support to the IAC; and
(ii)   Supporting IAC's Work at the Regional Levels. The development of social
partnership mechanisms of various groups of residents in coal regions whose
interests are directly affected by restructuring of coal industry will be carried out
by enhancing existing regional Coal Commissions as well as setting up similar
commissions in coal regions where they have not yet been established. Regional
Coal Commissions will be set up in all coal regions before January 1, 1997. The
proposed support for the IAC at the regional levels would be achieved in a cost
effective manner through focus on about five coal regions. Starting in five main
coal regions, the PIU would set up a small office (in coordination with the
regional administration) with 1-2 staff to (a) support the work of the IAC and its
regional offices; (b) provide regular feedback from the regions to the IAC; (c)
distribute information, including steps taken and to be taken during restructuring
by Government; (d) work with regional and local press in accessing up-to-date
information on the restructuring process; and (e) coordinate with the local
administration and trade unions.
Support to Local Governments
12.   At the local levels of mining communities, oversight committees would be formed under
the leadership of the heads of local administrations and consist of representatives of various
groups affected by the restructuring program. The main objective of the local oversight
committees will be to determine the strategy for local development, coordination of the
development and implementation of local development programs, dissemination of timely and
accurate information on restructuring, and monitoring and supporting access to social protection
for laid-off workers and residents of mining communities.
13.   Local oversight committees will determine the guidelines for the disbursement of state
financing allocated to finance local development programs. In mid-1996, local oversight
committees will be formed in five pilot mining towns of largest coal-mining regions. Special
working groups will be set up under the leadership of the regional administrations to provide the
necessary organizational support and technical assistance for community support and employment



28                                                                                    Annex 1
programs (Annex 4). It is envisaged that by 1997, local oversight committees will be established
in about 30 mining communities.
Suppoi1 to the Association of Mining Cities
14.   This will consist of financing of periodic (approximately once every 4-6 months) meeting
of mayors -- at least mayors in the major coal regions; regular provision of information to
mayors through Regional Coal Commissions; as well as provision of specific information, know-
how and expertise required by the mayors.Y'
15.   Further, mayors may wish to (a) invite their counterparts from other countries who have
had similar experience to share their experiences; and (b) learn more about subjects such as
management issues and micro enterprise development. It may also be useful to maintain working
ties with the media at the local level as an additional tool for communicating the work of the
Association within the coal communities.
Support to Trade Unions:
(i)    Support to information/communication activities: Trade Unions undertake
many outreach activities to keep workers informed of various sector issues,
including tariff agreements and problems concerning their implementation,
notably health and safety issues. The outreach materials are not always prepared
in a professional way; enhancement of the preparation and dissemination of user
friendly information can help miners and bring greater transparency to sector
operations.
(ii)    Support to Trade Union Social Impact Monitoring activities: Unions have
regional monitoring activities focusing on employees within the sector. These
activities could provide complementary information to social impact monitoring
activities proposed under the proposed Project. The collaboration between the
Advisory Panel of Scientists proposed for "independent" social impact assessment
activities, PIU and the trade unions would also help strengthen unions' capacity
for impact monitoring and participation.
(iii)   Support to improvements in the quality of legal counseling available to
miners: Labor Law is a recently developing field and the unions express
particular difficulties in identifying lawyers knowledgeable with a whole range of
I'    The Network could remain as an ad hoc voluntary association without having to have a formal status.
Similar Networks or Unions of Mayors exists in other countries. Examples of the constitutions or operating
principles of such Networks are available. The Network may have its own structure, including a rotating
president and secretariat. The Ministry of Economy, through the PIU, may serve as the technical secretariat,
financing the meetings of the Mayors, facilitating their communications, and providing information and training
to municipalities as specific by the Network. in other words, the technical secretariat -PIU-- could disperse
funds allocated for support of the Network in accordance with the decisions of the Network.



Annex 1                                                                         29
legal skills, including mediation and negotiation skills, disability compensation,
etc. The quality of the legal support is not only important to protect the workers
who may be made redundant, but also are important for the restructured and
strengthened parts of the industry.
(iv)   Support to Trade Union research on social issues: There are a number of social
issues on which trade unions propose to do research. These include problems of
migrant workers, sources of conflicts, alternative mechanisms of placement of
redundant workers. Supporting the capacity of labor organizations to undertake
policy research and monitoring could contribute to the sustainability of the reform
effort.
(v)   Support to training and coalition building activities: This activity is addressed
under industrial relations. It is shown here as a participation activity as it would
help enhance collaboration between the coal industry managers and labor
representatives and thus improve the working conditions of employees.
Suppoil to the Independent Coal Companies
16.   A number of coal companies are becoming independent and they need support to network
among themselves, acquire new business skills and expand their markets. Under this project,
support would be provided to them along lines to be specified by these companies themselves.
It is envisioned that such demand will consist of facilitation of their networking through regional
meetings, workshops and training.
Public Infonnation and Communication Campaign
17.   While information exchange amongst some twenty-five federal agencies has been largely
facilitated by the IAC, the systematic provision of consistent and region-specific information to
other stakeholders and the miners' community, in particular, has been lacking. The miners
currently obtain information on the coal restructuring program from three main sources: (a) mine
management, (b) local trade union organizations and (c) local and federal mass media. At a time
of increasing difficulties in the sector, timely provision of comprehensive and consistent
information throughout the entire implementation period of the restructuring Program will be
crucial. In particular, incomplete, contradictory or out-dated information would, in turn, lead
to speculation and misinformation and thus deepening the communities' anxiety about their
future. An information vacuum would also undermine the credibility of the reform efforts and
weaken public support for the Government's restructuring program.
18.  In order to address this issue, the proposed project includes the organization of a
comprehensive media-based public information and communication program. This component
is essential for creation of trust in the system at large and in the individual institutions charged
with providing support to miners and their communities.



30                                                                             Annex 1
19.   The communication campaign will consist of the following components:
(i)   Continuous monitoring and assessing information needs of respective stakeholder
groups. This element of the campaign will draw heavily on the findings conducted
under social assessment and social impact monitoring activities. Additional assessment
of information needs will be acquired through the monitoring of local and federal
media (newspaper clippings service and electronic media monitoring), direct
interactions of campaign coordinators with stakeholders and, in cases where informa-
tion is still insufficient, conducting small-scale opinion research surveys.
(ii)  Preparation of information material and its regular up-date throughout subsequent
stages on the reform program. The material should cover a broad spectrum of issues
in which the mining communities and other stakeholders are interested (e.g., specific
steps being taken by the Government to implement plans for coal restructuring; the
mechanisms, categories and amounts of subsidies being distributed to the sector and
their implications; the rights and responsibilities of workers and managers during
restructuring; contacts regarding the application for and receipt of benefits and social
programs). This component includes preparation of substantive information on issues
of country-wide concern as well as stakeholder-specific issues. It is crucial that the
information is prepared timely and in an audience-friendly way.
(iii) Building up effective dissemination and communication channels: establishing an
information network of contact persons capable of reaching out to the coal regions and
the stakeholders. This component also includes identification of a group of "talking
heads" -- key players with extensive knowledge about the reform program who would
serve as 'messengers" -- and providing them with basic media training. Lastly, this
component includes strengthening institutions which already perform information
dissemination activities (local trade union organizations, oblast and city press
services).
(iv)  Timely dissemination of information and communication activities conducted at both
the federal and regional levels. The exact choice and character of activities will have
to be determined by the campaign organizers in a way tailored to the specific informa-
tion needs of the given stakeholder and region. In general, these activities will include:
o   interactions with mass media -- building up a database of key national and
regional mass media organizations; handling media queries and providing
them with information as it emerges;
o pro-active measures vis-a-vis the national and local mass media, such as
contributions to regular newspaper columns in major coal region newspapers,
the organization of press tours, setting up interviews with key players and
enhancing their participation in relevant TV and radio shows, and providing
relevant footage to TV stations;
o   launching a monthly information bulletin and its wide circulation among all
stakeholders;



Annex 1                                                                            31
o   an on-going distribution of pamphlet materials covering issues on "legal
benefits for laid-off workers", "stages of restructuring and results", "job
creation issues", etc.; the broad dissemination of other high-quality written
materials produced on an ad hoc basis (minutes from important meetings,
reports on coal restructuring operations in other countries, etc.);
o   visits to the regions/mines and locally-held briefings (road shows);
o   national press conferences and media coverage organized around major
events, including meetings of the Network of Mayors;
o   information seminars for a specific group of stakeholders;
o   informal interactions with key representatives of various stakeholder groups.
(v)   Providing institutional support to ensure the sustainability of the information activities in
the long-term. Specific implementation plans of the above components should keep in mind
the campaign's sustainability throughout the entire implementation of coal sector
restructuring in the Russian Federation, and thus its continuation after completion of the
World Bank-supported project.
(vi) Collecting evidence on the local implementation of reforms. Receiving feedback from the
coal regions and sharing this feedback with other stakeholders will also be important in
monitoring the implementation of coal sector reforms.
Implementation Arrangements
20.   The proposed institutional arrangements for the implementation of support for key
stakeholders, including trade unions, Association of Mining Cities and independent coal companies
are summarized below. Each contract signed between the PIU and the implementation entity will
specify the work program, manner of payments, evaluation, monitoring, reports and auditing.
a)    All support to the IAC and Regional Coal Commissions would be provided directly
by the PIU.
b)    Support to various stakeholders, including local governments and the Association of
Mayors of Coal Mining Cities, trade unions and independent coal companies, would
be based on their submission of detailed proposals consistent with criteria and
procedures stipulated by the PIU. This type of support would be in the form of a
service contract with the PIU. Each recipient will be required (as appropriate) to
provide to the PIU: (i) regular progress reports on activities; (ii) a mid-term report
on progress towards achieving the objectives of the program; and (iii) a final report
and audited statements of expenses incurred.
c)    Public information and communication program will be coordinated by a company
with an established track record in public communication. The company will be
selected through competitive bidding and its activities will be overseen by the PIU.



32                                                                            Annex 1
AUtachment 1
BACKGROUND ON CBOS AND NGOS
1.    introduction. In the wake of coal sector restructuring, much of the onus of social and
economic support to coal communities is being shifted from the federal levels of government to
regional and local governmental, non-governmental (NGOs), and community based organizations
(CBOs). Both NGOs and CBOs in the coal regions have inevitably begun to identify gaps in social
support services and community development areas formerly addressed by govemment or industry
and have been responsive in developing local programs which minimize the negative effects of
restructuring.
2.    Community Based Organizations. CBOs have always played an important role in Russia's
coal communities and during the transition toward market economics, have begun to play a marked
role in the development and redevelopment of most coal communities. In fact, CBO activity in coal
regions of Russia has, by virtue of its inherently local nature, been more responsive to community
needs and engaged in coal community development than traditional NGO activity.
3.    CBOs now functioning in most coal communities with minimal support and infrastructure,
but nonetheless providing needed services include women, veteran, disabled, and youth support
groups. More specific CBOs have evolved in certain regions where they focus on region-specific
issues such as "relocation" (Pechora) or "health related" (Kisel) issues.
4.    The current base of CBO activities in coal communities is a focus on social issues including
job retraining, financial and material support during transition, and distribution of information.
5.    Non-Government Organizations. During the former Soviet period, "NGO-like" activities
went on, but did not receive full legal or economic support from government or citizenry. Since
1992, various national and international NGO activities have commenced activity in Russia's coal
regions. While various obstacles which existed for certain NGO activity prior to 1992 (eg. lack of
legal foundations, closed cities) no longer exist, the sector is still very new and there is a need for
increased support through adequate funding.
6.    It is important to note that "NGO" activity in Russia's coal regions has not necessarily been
strictly without government support or funding. The reality of these regions is that local donations
and support do not adequately meet the needs of an NGO and that while the activities carried are
"NGO-like", it has often been local and regional govemment support which maintains these activities.
With enhanced communication, awareness and access to the regions, NGO work now ongoing in
other regions of Russia will likely focus more attention in these areas, many of which are fairly
isolated.
7.    Upon review of the local activity now ongoing in the coal communities of Russia, the need
for such community based and non-government activity is not in question, however, financial support
for these structures is inadequate. At a time when local and regional government and industry
resources are being redirected within new market parameters, the CBO and NGO networks will play



Annex 1                                                                             33
a more important role in delivering timely and effective response to the needs for community
development and support aspects earlier overseen by government and industry.
8.    Pflot Activities for Community Support and Employment Programs. The proposed Project
would support implementation of pilot activities based on new mechanisms for community support
and employment programs in Kuzbass, Eastern Donbass, Pechora, Moscow and Kisel coal basins.
This would allow various stakeholders, notably CBOs and NGOs, the means of requesting
government support for new ideas.



34                                                                                            Annex I



COAL SECTOR RESTRUCTuRiNG IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ANNEX 2
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS: DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1.    Until 1992, the Soviet centralized economic system minimized the interaction of the key
participants, namely labor, management and government. Since then, transition to market economics
has shown the importance of these relations to the development and maintenance of a viable coal
sector in Russia. Plagued by strikes, lack of predictability and rising tensions amongst all parties, a
new market-oriented approach to industrial relations in the Russian coal sector must be taken.
2.    As the sector attempts to restructure, the urgency of improved industrial relations has
increased. At present, the basis of industrial relations in Russian coal are two national "Tariff
Agreements" among the two coal trade unions and the Ministries of Fuel and Energy, and Labor.
The sole tool for enforcing these agreements and for enforcing worker-manager responsibilities is the
strike. Support from various industry representatives during this transition period is vital. Unless a
workable system of industrial relations is in place, international experience has shown that a viable
market-oriented coal sector cannot develop.
Government Policy on Social Partnership
3.    As evidenced by the Inter-Agency Coal Commission, there are over twenty government
ministries, agencies or organizations which are to some extent involved in the restructuring of Russian
coal. Each government structure will play a critical role in receiving and distributing important
information as to how that government structure is responding and initiating restructuring efforts.
4.    The Russian government has stated that it is firmly committed to the theory and practice of
"social partnership," a principle on par with that of industrial relations. The Government will play
a major role in enhancing social partnership as it affects coal communities, while an even more
focused approach to enhancing, if not developing, industrial relations, must be taken by industry and
union leaders with the support of government.
5.    The Government considers social partnership mechanisms are the basis of interaction and
information exchange amongst participants in the process of restructuring the coal industry. The
Russian Government has also committed itself to considering ways of ending its involvement with
the Tariff Agreement process by the end of 1997.
6.    As for implementation of the coal restructuring program, the Russian Government is
establishing regional Coal Commission contact offices: by setting up such bodies in coal regions
where they have not yet been set up. Local oversight committees are also to be formed, consisting
of representatives of various affected groups, including trade unions. The main objective of the



36                                                                            Annex 2
oversight committees will be to determine the strategy coordination and implementation of local
development programs, and the social protection of laid-off workers and residents of mining
development programs.
7.    The Russian government is also committed to provide technical support to the work of the
regional Coal Commissions; monitoring of state financing mechanisms, including independent audits;
and multi-faceted monitoring of the social and economic situation in the coal regions. In the
informational sphere, the Russian government will provide coal industry workers with information
on relevant programs; will strengthen local organizations which work with miners to improve their
legal and social protection; and will monitor the restructuring of the coal industry and make these
results public through the local media.
Govemment's Role in Industral Relations
8.    The current reality of the Russian government's role in coal restructuring is federal-oriented.
During this transition period as the regional authorities and industry managers adapt to more market-
oriented roles in sector development, it will become necessary for the role of federal government to
similarly transition. International coal country experience demonstrates repeatedly the need for federal
regulation and enforcement of sector practice on health and safety, legislation, tax and duties, and
where applicable, management of state shares.
a)    Ministry of Fuel and Energy - The Russian government has proposed that MOFE
should be a signatory to labor contracts and undertake an enhanced role in the
regulation and enforcement of health and safety aspects in the coal sector. It is
important that MOFE be supported during this transitional period to effectuate the
establishment of sound industrial relations.
As the transition continues, a more regulatory role in the oversight of health and
safety at coal enterprises will be crucial.
b)    Ministry of Labor - MOL has created a new department "Social Partnership" in
which it seeks to create a more enduring government location for the oversight of
industrial relations in various sectors. The Ministry of Labor is also involved in
mediation and conflict resolution activities, although these activities are minimal and
lack local respect . The Ministry maintains regional offices in the coal regions and in
time, with the proper training and support, should evolve as a stronger government
structure to support industrial relations as they concern the coal sector.
c)    Duma - Support to legislators in developing effective legislation at the federal and
local levels will be important as industrial relations continues to evolve as the basis
on which sector development will be practicable. Absent legislation which encourages
this foundation, the long-term development of the sector will be delayed.
9.    While it is similarly important that participants and labor lawyers are well versed in
supporting legislation, the crux of sector policy and industrial relations will be based on well drafted
law which has reliable mechanisms for enforcement and government support.



Annex 2                                                                              37
Management's Role in Industrial Relations
10.   In virtually all sectors of the Russian economy, management skills are lacking; this attributed
to the former State control and central system which required little or regulated contribution to the
system from its managers at all levels. Now, as State control lessens and financial attachment to the
government decreases as well, it is vitally important that managers of industry receive proper and
timely training to respond effectively to the rapidly changing industry structure.
11.   Industry managers must now address issues of organizational structure, financial management,
personnel and inter and intra-industry relations with an eye toward establishing profit-bearing
enterprises and a secure place in the market; the development of skills to enhance regional and local
managerial capabilities to adequately address these issues is crucial.
12.   In addition to basic management skills for managers of the coal sector which are addressed
under Business Plans, Management Training herein, union leaders will also require such basic
training. Furthermore, included in Management Training issues of Fair Labor Practices and Labor
Law will need to be addressed.
Labor's Role in Industrial Relations
13.   Just as the role of government and management has and continues to change during the coal
sector's evolution toward a market system, so too must the tools and structures used by labor change.
Virtually all coal sector workers hold membership in one of the sector's two trade unions; the unions
have very different histories, goals and approaches to coal sector reform. Industrial relations is an
area of inevitable common ground for the two unions and despite extreme political differences, the
two unions will need to develop methods for working or at least learning together.
14.   At present, the singular tool used by workers to enforce worker rights is the strike. This tool
is used to demand wages, better living conditions, enhanced health and safety and even political calls.
The unions, in conjunction with management and government, have not fared well in attempt to
negotiate and mediate various claims. A weak legal system at the local levels coupled with threats
of job loss have provided large barriers to alternative approaches to resolving conflict.
Approach
15.   Two phases to the Industrial Relations work will be necessary; the second phase will depend
upon funding and interest in pursuing this sector specific effort.
Phase 1. This will include coordination with the PIU, unions, management structures and
government representatives in establishing 10 mine-level "Education Centers";
0     4 centers at mines in Kuzbass
2 centers at mines in Rostov
2 centers at mines in Vorkuta
2 centers at mines in the Urals



38                                                                                Annex 2
*     identification, in coordination with PIU, Education Coordinators at ten mines
*     training of Education Coordinators based at the mine in:
*0.   labor - management relations
*.   atrain the trainers
*0.    negotiating
*1.    collective bargaining
*.    social benefits for laid off workers
*.    conflict resolution
*     ongoing presentation of seminars on above topics at the ten selected mines; training
will benefit from a combined local/international experience using existing structures
at the local level with various consultant input.
Phase 2. This will include:
*     enhanced training to the Education Coordinators to include:
*.    drafting legislation
IN.    use of informational tools in enhancing industrial relations (eg. newsletters)
*     using Education Centers at the mines, provide training to already existing structures
requiring more information:
-0.    Labor Lawyers
Arbitration Services
Ministry of Labor representatives
IN.    Mediation/Conciliation Centers
-     presentation of seminar where all Education Center Coordinators, local counterparts
and international guests will come together to review and discuss the current status
of industrial relations in Russian coal and what steps need to be taken.
*     one-to-one consultation with Ministry of Fuel and Energy, Ministry of Labor and
Duma representatives; ideally, a consultant counterpart who will work directly with
the Government counterpart in developing relevant materials, providing information
to labor, management and other government bodies, and designing a plan by which
the institution will support the enhancement of a coal industrial relations system.
Scope of Work
16.   Phase 1 will comprise:
Task 1: In cooperation with the Inter-Agency Coal Commission and PIU, select mines in
each of the four above-referenced coal regions wherean Education Center will be established.
Management and both unions should participate in selection of site and set up of operations.
Task 2: Select Education Coordinators, one from each mine, who coordinate and ultimate
conduct training activities.



Annex 2                                                                          39
Task 3: Design and implement a system of selecting training participants at the mine as well
as representatives from the regional industry level and government where applicable to
address:
*     Collective Bargaining
*     Dispute Resolution
*     Labor-Management Relations
*     Labor Law
*     Negotiating
*     Social Benefits to Laid-off Workers
Task 4: Design general curriculum and training materials on topics including:
a)    Collective Bargaining - on-going, specific work at the mine level in designing and
developing a collective bargaining agreement which will be recognized by the relevant
parties;
b)    Dispute Resolution - on-going skills training in negotiating, conflict management and
dispute resolution; activities will include mine participants and relevant govemment
representatives;
c)    Labor-Management Relations - on-going distribution of information on intemational
experience as well as methods to improve these relations in the context of a coal
enterprise;
d)    Labor Law - mine parficipants as well as local lawyers will receive informational and
"know-how" training on the current status of labor law vis a vis Russian coal
enterprises and methods for improving such laws. Each of the five mining regions
will produce a specific analysis of the local status of labor law.
e)    Negotiating - basic negotiating skills and tactics may be taught and practiced; role
playing is already a successful method of training used in various union training.
Managers and worker representatives will practically apply skills acquired in
negotiating new collective bargaining agreements as well as individual contracts.
f)    Social Benefits to Laid-Off Workers - in light of ongoing restructuring, an educated
workforce will benefit in knowing to what benefits it is entitled and how to obtain
such benefits. The current lack of knowledge on this aspect of restructuring is proving
to hamper the process at all levels and is counter to good industrial relations where
an open flow of information must be achieved.
Task 5: A combined training approach will involve local and foreign consultants; initially
centered on broad participation, followed with specific training for local Education
Coordinators.
a)    Develop a training calendar, planned by topic for the needs of each specific mine.
b)    Calendar should include a combination of local mine training and focused "trainer"
training; the ten Education Coordinators may receive simultaneous angalones



40                                                                             Annex 2
Task 6: Develop training materials also suitable for distribution beyond the ten mines in
which training activity is focused. Such materials will include study-assignment books and
local contact information on industrial relations.
Task 7: Select local part-time Information Coordinators to oversee the distribution to the local
media in each of the four coal regions of information about the local training activities as well
as the national coal restructuring program. These individuals at the mine level will work
closely with any other regional or local contact office.
Task 8: Regular information on the local training program and on the mine restructuring
program will be provided by the local Information Coordinator to local print and electronic
media in the four regions.
Task 9: Data base of sample selected collective bargaining provisions of the five designated
mines will be provided by the Education Coordinators and relevant members of the local
training group.
Task 10: In conjunction with the above tasks, where applicable, specific training will be
provided to specific constituencies including local labor lawyers and appropriate government
officials, including from the Ministries of Fuel and Energy and Labor.
Task 11: An ongoing assessment of the status of labor-management-government relations in
each region, as well as the local NGO/CBO sector and institutes which impact on industrial
relations at the coal mines should be conducted.
17.   Phase 2 will comprise:
a. Focus on Government
Task 1: Two Industrial Relations Specialists and a Russian Labor Lawyer will be selected.
It is highly probable that the two industrial relations specialists will be former Education
Coordinators trained during Phase 1.
Task 2: The Industrial Relations Specialists will perform advisory work with the relevant
sections in the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and the Ministry of Labor on par with what
training was presented during Phase 1.
Task 3: Detailed written recommendations to the relevant agency will be provided by each
Industrial Relations Specialist. Foreign and local consultants may work together to discem
what effective market tools are applicable.
Task 4: The Russian Labor Lawyer will perform consultations with the relevant committees
of the Duma.
Task 5: Detailed written recommendations on draft labor law and enforcement mechanisms
will be provided to the relevant Duma committees by the Russian Labor Lawyer.



Annex 2                                                                            41
Task 6: The Labor Lawyer, in coordination with relevant local training participants, will
provide a detailed written analysis of relevant labor laws and their enforcement mechiams
and practices for possible future distribution.
b. Focus on Labor-Management Relations
Task 7: Using the Education Centers, enhanced training on issues taught during Phase 1;
responsive to current labor-management relation setting.
Task 8: Actual drafting of collective bargaining agreement at mine-level where possible;
management, union representatives and labor lawyer input will be crucial.
Task 9: Intensive focus on "Social Partnership' office in Ministry of Labor as it responds to
labor-management conflict and issues of mediation. Development of informational materials
for mine workers and management as to how to access Ministry of Labor and other mediation
services.
c. Paltic4pation in International Trnining
Task 10: Where possible, experience in Russian coal has demonstrated that exposure to the
international coal experience, notably tools for labor-management-government relations, has
been of tremendous use in opening avenues for new approaches to sector relations.
Participation in international seminars on labor mediation, labor-management relations and
mine visits where first-hand observation of working processes are all important.
d. Erpansion of Education Centers
Task 11: Where requested, it is possible to expand the Education Center network to other
mine locations in coordination with PIU activities.
Major Milestones
18.   Phase 1 will comprise:
a)    Ten Education Coordination Centers at ten mines in the above-referenced regions.
These models may be applicable to other coal regions.
b)    Production of Training Materials on topics listed above which will be suitable for
further distribution.
c)    Data base of selected collective bargaining agreements in ten selected coal regions
suitable for further training activities.
d)    Video/audio tapes of training sessions to facilitate dissemination of information.



42                                                                            Annex 2
e)    Written analysis of the local status of labor law in ten selected coal regions suitable
for further training activities.
f)    A minimum of ten trained Education Coordinators capable of conducting training in
other regions.
g)    Ten trained Information Coordinators capable of conducting training in other regions.
h)    Data base of actual experiences related to dispute resolution, conflict management,
labor-management relations, collective bargaining which may be used as both a
monitor of industrial relation practices and a method by which to identify problem
areas in the current industrial relations' atmosphere.
19.   Major Milestones for Phase 2 will be identified prior to implementation of Phase 2, taking
into account progress made during Phase 1.
Schedule
20.   The Industrial Relations Program will be administered over a twelve-month period. Staffing
will be carried out as follows:
X     Essential personnel (Umbrella Contractor staff) should be hired within one month;
*     Education and Information Coordinators in ten coal regions should be hired within
two months;
-     Training seminars underway in two months, and Training Centers in full operation
in four months.
Repoting Requirements
21.   Reporting requirements will comprise:
a)    The Umbrella Contractor will provide an inception report pertaining to Phase 1 of
TOR within five weeks of initiation of activities. This report will define areas in
which the TOR needs revision, as well as progress in meeting TOR goals. A similar
process will be followed in preparing to implement Phase 2 of the TOR.
b)    The Umbrella Contractor will develop reporting mechanisms and requirements with
the Education Coordinators, PIU and relevant local staff.
c)    The Umbrella Contractor will submit two periodic reports (one after four months and
another after eight months) on progress in complying with TOR requirements.
d)    The Umbrella Contractor will submit a final report which assesses whether the TA
objectives have been met, using the TOR as a measure of performance.



COAL SECTOR REsrRucTURING IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ANNEX 3
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT: DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.    Objectives. The objectives of social assessment (SA) are to:
(a)   broaden the regional coverage of the systematic social assessment activities undrtaken
until March 1996;
(b)   deepen understanding of several key issues, including:
*     information/communication patterns of miners and communities
*     access/utilization of social assets/services
*     interactions with local and federal institutions
*     household assets (acquisition and los of changes in composition)
*     coping strategies
*     changes in levels and sources of income
-     attitudes on reform.
(c)   define the role of coal sector activities in a broader socio-economic context at the
household, communities/settlement, and regional levels;
(d)   develop a better understanding of the dynamics of change and patterns of adaptation
to transition.
2.    Approach. There are several SA activities already initiated by the Project Preparation Unit
(PPU). Several others are added to this list for financing under the Japan Grant Facility (JGF). The
focus of the proposed SA activities will be in the main coal regions which account for the majority
of employment and production in the coal sector.
3.    Specific Activities to be Accomplished. Specific SA activities proposed consist of the
following:
(a)   expanding existing systematic SA database to Rostov and Tula through 800 additional
household surveys undertaken in four settlements. It is proposed that two of these
settlements will be associated with mines announced for closure starting in 1996 and
the other two will be near mines which will experience significant labor force
downsizing over the next few years, starting in 1996.
(b)   understanding the regional context within which coal reform takes place through focus
on two micro regions in Kuzbass and Rostov; defining the role of coal sector
operations (including the management of social assets) in the lives of the people in a



44                                                                            Annex 3
dynamic context through the use of secondary data (for the past 5-10 years) and
through focus group discussions in the regions.
(c)   analyzing patterns of adjustment to reform through longitudinal studies, comparing
coal and non-coal employees who have left their jobs voluntarily with those who have
been laid off and focusing on institutional constraints to their adjustment.
(d)   analyzing changes in family budget, comparing coal communities with others by using
existing Goskomstat family budget studies and by adding a special target sample to
the existing sample base.
(e)   thematic studies on:
*     patterns of geographical mobility
*     impacts of restructuring on the disabled
*     impacts of lump sum payments on redundant work families.
4.    Instu&onal Anangements. Each of the studies proposed will be undertaken by a separate
Russian institution. Findings and implications will be discussed by an Advisory Panel of Experts to
be established with representatives from the Russian Academy of Sciences, Institute of Sociology,
Russian Center for Public Opinion and Market Research and Center of Opinion Polls. There will
also be an Executive Board, responsible from the coordination of assessment and impact monitoring
activities and servicing as the Secretariat for the Advisory Panel. This Board would consist of
members of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), including a participation specialist,
representatives from the Russian Center for Public Opinion and Market Research and Institute for
Comparative Labor Research Relations, and a social scientist from the World Bank. Other
collaborating academic and research institutions include the Coal Research Institute, Moscow Institute
for Economic Analysis, School of Economy, Institute of Labor, and the Institute for Comparative
Politics and Problems of Workers' Movement, Russian Academy of Sciences. Research units of labor
unions will also be among the collaborating institutions.



Annex 3                                                                                            45
6.     The institutional arrangements are proposed as follows:
Activity                            Institution Responsible
Expanding existing systematic SA activities    Russian Center for Public Opinion and Institute of
Labor Relations
Regional studies in coal regions        Institute of Commercial Labor Relations and
Institute of Economics, Academy of Science
Analysis of patterns of adjustment       Institute of Commercial Labor Relations
Analysis of changes in family budget    Goskomstat
Thematic studies
Patterns of geographic mobility         Institute of Economic Analyses
Impact on the disabled                  School of Economics
Impact of payments on redundant workers  Labor Institute
Seminars                                Service contract
7.     Schedule. All social assessment activities are planned to be underway by August 1996. An
Expert Group Meeting is proposed to be held under the leadership of the Advisory Panel to:
(a)    evaluate implications of SA results completed;
(b)    further define monitoring indicators
(c)    develop detailed monitoring methods
(d)    review and finalize institutional arrangements.
8.     The Senior Advisor of Social Policy and Sociology of the World Bank, an international social
scientist experienced in social impacts of coal sector restructuring in other countries, the group of
Russian institutions collaborating on different aspects of SA, and representatives of the trade unions,
could be among the key participants.






COAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING IMPLEMENTATION ASISTANCE PROJECT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ANNEX 4
SOCIAL IMACT MONITORING: DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Objecives
The objectives of social impact monitoring (SIM) consist of:
a)    ensuring that the individual benefits intended for mine workers made redundant by the
coal industry actually reach them; that entitlements of coal sector employees specified
by various legal instruments, including the tariff agreements reached by the trade
unions, are fully respected; that workers are fully informed of their entitlements and
are given notice as per existing laws and regulations; that there are mechanisms and
opportunities for recourse; and that the local, regional and Federal institutions
mandated to assist the workers actually provide such services. If intended benefits and
services do not reach the miners, an examination of the constraints and identification
of mechanisms to remove these will be necessary. Basically, this first objective of the
social impact monitoring will focus on the delivery of severance packages and can be
fiurther specified once the content of this package is defined.
b)    making sure that "voluntary departures" are based on adequate information and on
workers' free decisions. Should evidence suggest otherwise, SIM will focus on factors
which distort workers' ability to make free decisions. SIM will also propose
corrective measures.
c)    ensuring that geographical, job and housing mobility is not hindered and that the
measures envisioned under the reform program and the capacity building activities of
the World Bank loan are in place. Should this not be the case, SIM will propose
specific measures to enhance such mobility.
d)    ensuring that special groups such as migrant workers, the disabled, and women, do
not shoulder a disproportionate burden of restructuring. Should discriminatory
practices occur, SIM will identify contributing factors and propose mitigation
measures.
e)    ensuring that household and community access to and quality of social services are
not adversely affected in the process of restructuring. Should such adverse impacts
are observed, SIM will attempt to identify contributing factors, including coal sector
reform, and propose mitigation measures.



48                                                                            Annex 4
f)    creating an appreciation of the overall hardships of a transitional environment and
evaluating the relative social impacts of coal sector reform, in addition to the
absolute impacts listed above.
g)    ensuring that trust in institutions instrumental in reform implementation is not
weakened and that public perception of reform is not negatively influenced.
Speciflc Aims in Social Impact Monitoring
2.    SIM aims to demonstrate that:
a)    as compared to baseline, miners, their families and communities are better
cushioned with the Government's short and medium-term restructuring program;
b)    social safety measures put in place by the Program are implemented and reach the
intended beneficiaries to minimize, cushion or mitigate adverse impacts;
c)    the restructuring program takes place in a dynamic and complex transitional
environment in which adverse impacts of coal sector restructuring weigh less
heavily in the lives of the people than planned and/or spontaneous restructuring
in other sector activities;
d)    no region, settlement or social group (women, elderly, disabled, migrants) is
systematically disadvantaged;
e)    at the level of communities and individual enterprises/mines, restructuring takes
place when social safety measures are fully in place in a planned, open and
transparent fashion;
f)    institutions mandated with reform implementation, severance payments, training
and job placement, social assets management, etc., have the capacity and
commitment to perform their roles;
g)    decisions at all levels are taken with the participation of relevant stakeholders and
the mechanisms put in place to ensure such participation function; and
h)    public at large, especially in the coal regions, are informed of developments and
the trust in the reform agenda is not weakened.
Preliminary Indicators
3.    Monitoring indicators are listed below. More special indicators will be defined subsequent
to specification of program and project components. The indices of measurement will have to
be defined as appropriate at the level of individual workers, households, communities, and
micro-regions:



Annex 4                                                                               49
-     access to full severance compensation as per existing laws;
-     accessibility of support for legal recourse;
-     ability to restore level of income prior to sector restructuring, including effective
utilization of severance compensation;
-     ability to identify alternative sources of income;
-     flexibility in changing household patterns of labor force participation;
-     job mobility, accessibility of alternative employment opportunities;
-     availability and accessibility of training, re-training and job placement services;
-     access to adequate level of social services in the course of sector restructuring (in
particular health and education);
ability to maintain standard of living prior to restructuring, including access to
heating/cooking energy, housing maintenance, utilities;
-     access to and availability of information on social safety measures prior to
departures from the sector (whether voluntary or not);
-     adequacy of support from local, regional and Federal agencies; and
-     adequacy of participation/representation in relevant decisions.
Selectivity
4.    The SIM will have to be selective in its emphasis in order to produce timely results in
a cost effective manner. This selectivity will be manifested in several ways:
a)    Regional focus: Surveys, case studies and a major portion of the field work will
focus primarily on five main coal basins: Kuzbass, Eastern Donbass, Pechora,
Moscow and Kisel coal basins.
b)    Focus on closures and substantial reductions: Since the major emphasis of the
SIM is minimization of the adverse impacts of restructuring, monitoring will
focus on mines scheduled for closure and large scale down sizing.
c)    Reliance on coal: SA has already established that some coal communities have
higher levels of exclusive reliance on the coal sector for employment than others.
SIM will focus more heavily on cases of exclusive reliance. However, SA studies
will attempt to put overall impacts in a more representative perspective by
showing the relationship between patterns of community reliance on the coal
sector and the patterns of adjustment to post-reform conditions.
5.    SIM  cannot seek "representiveness" in its results; rather, it will have to focus on
effectiveness of implementation arrangements for coal sector restructuring. First, many regions
have a handful of mines (e.g., Vorkuta has 15) and a search of a "representative mine
settlement" is not statistically fruitful. Secondly, SIM will monitor a process established on the
basis of a criteria of non-viability of mines-'; as mines are announced for closure and down
I'    It is expected that communities that will be facing mine closures have for some time been facing some of
the social consequences of these inefficiencies.



50                                                                            Annex 4
sizing, a major part of the SIM will focus on the communities, whether they are "typical" of the
coal regions or not.
Duration
6.    SIM will be initiated round September 1996 and will last for about 3 years.
Sources of Information and Methodology
7.    SIM will utilize several sources of primary and secondary data. It will also involve
longitudinal, cross-sectional and thematic studies, complementing one another in their regional
and issues coverage. The following provides a general description of the proposed effort; the
Expert Group Meeting mentioned under SA activities proposed for the period May - September
1996 will facilitate detailed description of the monitoring indicators and methodologies.
a)    Monitoring through secondary data with a focus on the analysis of total
redundancies, unemployment registration, training provided, and placement.
These data will be collected in all regions and sources of discrepancy for
redundancies, unemployment registration and placement.
b)    Cross section surveys of mine closures and large scale down sizing: Relatively
short surveys will be undertaken in a selected number of mines in the four
regions identified. Committees will be selected on the basis of closures lists
obtained from coal associations. About 1,000 interviews will be conducted with
employees who are made redundant (with a control group of those who have left
voluntarily) to ensure that the severance packages are received; social assets are
transferred and maintenance arrangements are made; unemployment registration
is made without delay and unemployment payments are received; adequate notice
was given prior to closures; information is available to make the necessary
adjustments; and institutions mandated with support to different categories of
workers (including the vulnerable groups such as the disabled) do actually provide
the required services.
c)    Longitudinal monitoring: This effort will focus on a small group of miners who
have left the industry voluntarily and those who were made redundant. It will
compare and contrast patterns of adjustment, job search, mobility, etc. A control
group of employees made redundant from non-mining sectors will also be traced
over the same period of time (of about 18 months) in order to identify relative
impacts of coal sector restructuring. This group of workers will be selected from
the communities included in the first round of cross section studies and will
consist of about 400 miners and 200 non-miners.
d)    Regional comparisons: A modest effort is proposed for SIM  purposes. This
effort, as described under the SA baseline studies, will compare two micro-
regions: one with heavy reliance on coal and the other with a more diverse
economic base (e.g., Prokopyevsk in Kuzbass and Borodinskaya in Tula) to assess



Annex 4                                                                            51
differences in coping strategies and their implications for restructuring program
implementation beyond the period of SIM.
e)    Vulnerable groups: Small scale studies are proposed to monitor responses of
vulnerable groups (particularly the disabled and migrants) to sector restructuring.
f)    Thematic studies may be required as new issues emerge during the SIM period.
Thus, contingency funds are set aside to provide flexibility to SIM.
g)    At least one Expert Group Meeting will be required at the end of the SIM period
to take stock and to provide input to relevant stakeholders, including the Bank,
on coal sector reform.
h)    Given the critical importance of SIM, the publication of its in-term and final
results is important. These will have to be primarily Russian, with key findings
and publications summarized into English.
Instiutional Arrangements
8.    The proposed institutional arrangements for the conduct of SIM are as follows:
a)    All SIM will be undertaken by scientific institutions not affiliated formally with
any of the major stakeholders.
b)    However, as indicated under the Participation Arrangements (Annex 1), it is
recommended that trade union's SIM monitoring efforts are supported. These
focus primarily on employees within the sector and thus could provide useful
information on the success of the restructuring effort over time, while, at the
same time, helping unions build capacity for SIM.
c)    All SIM efforts will be guided by an Advisory Panel as described in the section
on SA (see institutional arrangements specified in the Social Assessment-program
proposed to be financed by the Japan Grant Facility - Annex 2 ).
d)    Institutions proposed for the implementation of the individual elements of SIM
include: Russian Center for Public Opinion and Market Research (7-b, above),
Institute of Comparative Labor Relations Research (7-a and c, above), Moscow
Institute for Economic Analysis (7-d, above) and the Russian Academy of
Sciences, Institute of Sociology (7-e, above). The Advisory Panel and the
Executive Board will be managed by PIU.



52                                                                        Annex 4
Resources
9.    Resources will be made available to finance the following activities:
a)    Advisory Panel
Executive Board
b)    Monitoring through secondary data
c)    Community surveys                    (8-b)
d)    Longitudinal monitoring              (8-c)
e)    Regional Comparisons                 (8-d)
f)    Vulnerable Groups                    (8-e)
g)    Other thematic studies/contingencies  (8-f)
i)    Expert Group Meeting at the
end of the SIM period                (8-g)
j)    Publications and dissemination       (8-h)
k)    Translation                          (8-h)



COAL SECTOR RESRUCT(JR1NG INMLIEENTATON ASSISTANCE PROJECT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Annex 5
ImmTEENTATION OF SOCIAL SAFEY NET GUIDELINES:
TEMS OF REFERENCE
Genend Backgmund
1.    This component will provide technical assistance to assist in the design and implementation
of measures of social protection in 5 regions of the Russian Federation where mines will close.
Initially, the delivery of pre-redundancy counselling and mass layoff services in mines will be
undertaken by the Federal Employment Services (FES) through its network of regional and local
offices. The FES has already developed a range of programs and materials which would be of use
in these activities. Two other major programs are included as actions to be undertaken within the
World Bank Loan for Coal Restructuring (SECAL): (i) Support for the Social Assets Operation and
Maintenance Program to provide municipal management and capacity building to municipal and
regional government in the coal regions; and (ii) the Community Support and Employment Program
to operate in 5 specific towns in the coal basins where mines are scheduled to close. This Terms of
Reference describes the requirements needed to implement these programs.
PART 1. MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT AND CAPACrry BUILDING IN SOCIAL SERVICES
Background
2.    In 1995 a large number of social assets have been transferred to the municipalities; however
the reallocation of federal funds which should accompany such a transfer has not yet occurred.
3.    The assets transferred include over 72%  of the mining association's housing, 66%  of
kindergartens and 22% of other social assets. Additional asset transfers are planned to take place later
in 1996. When the transfers are complete, some of the cities will face an increase of their housing
stock of up to 3800%, as well as a municipal expenditure increase of 150%. Even under a normal
fiscal environment such massive transfers will put the municipalities under great financial and
managerial strain to meet the incremental recurring cost. The task will be even more difficult in an
environment where the municipal tax-base is decreasing due to the coal sector difficulties. Currently,
an adequate response by municipalities in the coal regions is limited by lack of access to professional
legal, financial, and managerial services, which additionally hampers their adjustment.
4.    Therefore, a key aspect of sustainability of social development in coal settlements will be the
establishment and fulfillment of the financial and institutional conditions for both completing
divestiture and post-divestiture operations of transferred assets. Subsequent to resolving adequately
this budgetary impasse, and social assets are finally accepted and paid for by the local governments,
these local governments will need to implement a series of necessary measures and make substantial
adjustments to reduce operating costs and to close excessive facilities. The municipalities will have



54                                                                                   Annex 5
to improve fiscal management in the public sector, including rationalization of budget process,
increase cost recovery from the users fees, introduction of targeted subsidies to poor families, etc.
5.     Past experiences shows that, in general, social assets divestiture has taken place without prior
rationalization. As a result, in many cases the quality of services has decreased and cutting off
essential services has happened in an unplanned and disruptive manner.
6.    To mitigate this situation international donors have started to provide technical assistance to
municipalities. For instance, they have been disseminating on a pilot basis information on effective
technical approaches to housing reforms and privatization of housing stock and utilities, rationalization
of kindergartens, and the improvements in the local tax base. These existing programs offer good
examples of efforts to respond to particular needs of coal regions. Moreover, availability of already
developed programs provide examples of how technical assistance is being applied.
7.    As the restructuring of the coal industry takes place, the local authorities will need, in addition
to financial and management assistance, legal assistance as well. There will be also be the need of
timely dissemination of changes in the legislative and fiscal framework and the provision of better
information to the stakeholders affected by the restructuring process.
Objective
8.    The objective of part one is to assist the municipal and regional governments in the coal
regions during the coal industry restructuring period with advisory and training services to improve
the delivery of core social services and increase the overall local managerial capacity, to provide
training to core administrative personnel, and to build stakeholder consensus to change.
Spe4fic Activities to be Accomplished
9.     Attachment A to this Terms of Reference provides the specific requirements to be met by the
consultants being sought to assist in the execution of this part of the program.
10.   The concept of is a fundamental approach to institution building. Institutional support would
be focused on upgrading the analytical capacity of local governments and the training of local trainers
will be based on municipal needs to reflect an "action-training" approach: participative, practical,
hands-on experience.
11.   The training to be accomplished would cover but not be limited to:
Planning: City level strategic planning (finance operating and planning). Development of
strategic planning for creation of cost-effective integrated social service delivery system,
programs for cooperative and community based services, privatization of social infrastructure
and real estate, data collection system that facilitates accurate forecast and budgeting,
development of indicators to measure cost effectiveness of services provided.



Annex 5                                                                           55
Management: Improving existing institutional arrangements. Competitive contracting
procedures. Rationalization of municipal sector operations for housing, education and health.
Organization of condominium associations. Utility management and regulation.
Finance: Resources mobilization options. Municipal finance and management principles.
Pricing and cost recovery. Improvement of tax collection. Clarification of intra-region (i.e.
between regional and municipal administrations) responsibilities and fiscal relations in the coal
regions. Standardizing Accounting and Financial Reporting Systems. Cash flow models.
Legal: Information dissemination on new regulations
Management Information Systems: Support should be given to develop computerized
systems covering budget, management, financial management, controls, etc.
PART 2. COMMUNTY SUPPORT AND EMPLOYMENT PROGRAMS
Backgmund
12.   The difficult national economic and employment situation within which the coal restructuring
program is unfolding requires special approaches to respond specifically to local coal community
needs. In some coal communities, unemployment and social problems are at least as severe for
families in the non-coal sector as for families in the coal sector itself. The economic and employment
structure and prospects of the coal regions vary greatly with some coal basins having relative
opportunities for economic diversification and adjustment whereas others, being remote single
industry coal towns, will have few alternative employment opportunities. Therefore, approaches in
dealing with coal redundancies will need to vary and be tailored to local community needs. In
particular, it is desirable to design programs that will promote diversification by enhancing employee
mobility between sectors and between regions, as well as programs that increase employment outside
the coal sector in the coal communities themselves
13.  In addition, because of the absence of developed delivery agents (either Govemmental or Non
Govemmental) there are limited resources in place which would be capable of dealing quickly with
the anticipated social problems in areas where mines will close. For this reason it will be necessary
to put in place exceptional measures to support these communities. Under the World Bank Coal
SECAL Loan, some subsidies paid by Rosugol under the heading of Mine Closures should now be
allocated for the creation of demonstration Community Support and Employment Programs in 5 coal
towns (in the Pechora, Kuzbass, Eastern Donbass, Moscow and Kisel Basins. An amount still to be
determined should be allocated to each basin for a series of programs to be operated at local level
with in kind contributions by local authorities (e.g., buildings; materials; equipment). These initiatives
will build on and further develop the work begun by the Inter Agency Coal Commission in its
Regional Coal Restructuring Programs.
14.   The overall objective of these Community programs will be to integrate present and possible
new resources not only to meet immediate needs but also to plan and undertake longer term strategies
and efforts in creating employment opportunities. Specifically these programs will:



56                                                                            Annex 5
(a)   Put in place an agency or trust to manage the funds and guarantee that the funds are
received by those for whom they are intended. In each town it is possible that a
different local development agency will be set up. Some could be incorporated as
local enterprises; some could be agents or funds.
(b)   Establish a local committee to act as a local development agency; this would comprise
representatives of local administration; business people, trade unions; NGOs; and
employment services.
(c)   Develop a local focus in each community to encourage self dependence and foster
leadership skills. The center will provide information services and promote conflict
resolution.
(d)   Develop emergency social programs; canteens for the poor and disadvantaged;
creation of day care centers; special programs for the unemployed to get credit and
SME training; job clubs; counselling for disabled and young people leaving school
early.
15.   In addition two specialized actions should be developed: (i) a local economic development
progrun which would undertake the planning of longer term economic diversification measures; and,
(ii) a transitional employment program. Within these two broad programs there will be a menu of
appropriate service packages for each community which will be determined by the beneficiaries.
(i)    The Local Economic Development Program (LEDP) would carry out an economic
diversification effort aimed at creating sustainable new jobs through the development
of new enterprises and expanding existing ones. A local economic development
strategy based on an analysis of the area's development and growth potential would
be developed which would include marketing and enterprise promotion elements.
Identification of unused facilities which could house new enterprises would be made.
The LEDP's activities could include technical assistance to small and medium
businesses; setting up business incubators; establishing revolving loan funds; and in
certain situations, grants might be appropriate for needed infrastructure such as
rehabilitating public facilities to be leased to enterprises and investing funds in
environmental maintenance. Assistance in processing licenses and other government
approvals for enterprises as well as customized worker training would be provided.
This will include also restructuring of vocational schools to provide new training
opportunities being in agreement with long term prospects of regional development.
The LEDP could be based on the pilot economic development efforts being developed
by the Federal Employment Services for economically devastated areas.
(ii)   The Transitional Employment Program (TEP) would provide interim employment
for workers for whom alternative employment cannot be found and whose
unemployment and other benefits have been exhausted. Employment would be
provided in community projects such as rehabilitating housing, cleaning up the
environment, repairing public facilities, etc. The projects would be labor intensive
requiring only modest outlays for equipment and materials. The projects would have



Annex 5                                                                          57
a fixed length and the project plan would set out the work to be accomplished,
employment to be generated, supervision, wages, cost breakdowns, etc. The specific
TEP projects would be approved and monitored by the IAC Commission. A portion
of the jobs for TEP will derive from social asset rehabilitation described above.
Objective
16.   The goal of this component of the TA is to establish the institutional capacity at the regional
and local level to provide the needed reemployment and related assistance to the unemployed in the
coal areas. The building of institutional capacity includes assistance in designing the programs to be
provided, helping to organize the administrative and operational systems, and providing support in
program implementation.
Approach
17.   CSEP programs will be developed in towns in 5 coal regions which are experiencing the
greatest unemployment difficulties (Pechora, Moscow, Kuzbass, Eastem Donbass and Kisel). The
first phase would be the design and development of the overall CSEP program. It is envisaged that
this approach will be a demonstration project which will be replicable in other crisis areas. Within
the broad programs there will be a menu of appropriate service packages for each community which
will be determined by the beneficiaries.
Specific Activities to be Accomplshed
18.   The consultant shall be required to:
(a)   prepare a preliminary design of the CSEP program and its component parts, as well
as a detailed implementation plan and schedule.
(b)   The proposed CSEP and component program framework, would be submitted by the
PIU to the IACC for approval.
(c)   A pilot CSEP would be designed and implemented. The activity would include
assessing the specific needs, requirements and opportunities of the region and its local
areas; preparing the basic model prograam (noting that other regional and local
variations will need to be accommodated); developing action plans with supporting
organizational structure; fostering regional and local agreement and participation;
assisting the responsible organizations and authorities in developing detailed program
plans including management systems; supporting the implementation of specific
projects and activities; and providing other ad hoc assistance as needed. A key set of
TA activities would include briefing the involved regional and local authorities on the
proposed CSEP approach, its activities and requirements; enlisting non-governmental
participation in the CSEP effort, i.e., enterprises and entrepreneurs, NGOs, etc.; and
helping to sort the role and functions of the involved organizations, particularly in the
coordination of regional and local efforts.



58                                                                              Annex 5
Institutional Arirngements
19.   The Regional offices of the coal commission will coordinate and oversee the implementation
of these programs, through a consultative mechanism and with the involvement of concerned
governmental and private entities in order to utilize fully existing programs and resources as well as
to develop new activities as warranted. The Regional Commissions would involve concerned
stakeholders: i.e., governmental agencies especially the regional and local offices of the Employment
Services, enterprises, private entrepreneurs, unions, NGOs and other parties as appropriate. They
would work closely with the coal companies own labor reduction programs. They would be
responsible for ensuring that employment and related programs such as advance notice procedures,
pre-redundancy job search, transfer and counselling programs, administration of unemployment
benefits and related income support programs, job creation, including transitional employment
projects, and other employment assistance are available and functioning effectively at community
level. The regional commissions would establish a Supervisory Committee in the settlements near
mines to be closed which would provide the operational locus for carrying out the social safety net
activities as well as providing advice on legal entitlements and how to access assistance. The
Supervisory Committee would also monitor that funds were arriving from federal level and that
beneficiaries were in receipt of their proper entitlements.
20.   In the 5 pilot towns, local agents of the coal commission would be charged with overseeing
the programs of restructuring local social assets and reducing the fiscal burden of their maintenance
through appropriate privatization, increase in cost recovery, facilitating cost savings in the public
institutions, and closing excessive facilities. To stop further deterioration in quality of public services,
it is suggested that under proposed Community Support and Employment Programs, the 5 coal
municipalities will receive additional TA to support restructuring of their social asset stock in the
areas of the budget planning and management, utility regulations, competitive maintenance in
housing, etc. As a part of these efforts, division of responsibilities between regional and municipal
governments in the coal regions have to be clarified with corresponding redesign of intra-regional
fiscal relations.
21.   The adequacy of the delivery systems which provide the benefits and services available
through the legal social safety net should be addressed. Strengthening of the administrative capacity
of local offices of the Ministry of Social Protection and of the Employment Services in the coal areas
is needed as many local offices are not positioned to handle any sizable increase in workload. The
regional coal commissions would establish additional temporary or permanent social services as the
needs arise. The Implementation Assistance Project will provide technical assistance for the design
and start up of these programs.
Specific Activities to be Accomplished by the Consulting Firm
-define package of measures needed to create a Community Employment Program to
implement local development projects
-define a suitable instrument and to agree on operating arrangements for the Fund and criteria
of disbursement.



Annex 5                                                                           59
-develop transparent and equitable transparent operating guidelines to ensure community
support and diversification programs are funded during the second half of 1996 and
thereafter.
Level of Eifoit
22.   This work requires 8 person years of consultancy, including about 4 person years at the
federal level and 4 person years at the regional/local levels.
Benefiiares
23.   The assistance for the Social Assets Operation and Maintenance Program will benefit four
regional administrations located in the coal basins (Pechora, Moscow, Kuzbass, Eastern Donbass and
Kisel), where a social component is proposed under the same project.
24.   The Community Support and Employment Programs will benefit the ex employees of coal
companies; their families and communities directly.
-rpected Output
25.   Programs disbursing in 5 regions. The expected output will include but will not be limited
to: procedure manuals for competitive tenders, financial management handbooks, training programs
and seminars, technical advisory services, etc. manual for use in other regions. Guidelines and
criteria for fund disbursement.
26.   The project should be able to develop a institutional basis that can support subsequent phases
and initiatives in the area of management training. Once the fiscal situation is improved, the training
programs developed under this TA component may be delivered on the commercial basis by AMC
to its members.
Pnojed Implementation
27.   The proposed technical assistance component could be managed through the Project
Implementation Unit as a non-commercial foundation.
28.   Regional Coal Commissions (RCC), chaired by First Deputy of Regional Governors, have
been established in 5 participating regions and are to become the major implementation agency on
the ground. The Commissions will interact directly with the Federal coal commission and with
RosUgol. Regional Representatives of various federal agencies (e.g., Employment Service, Pension
Fund, Treasury, etc.) should be included in the composition of the RCC. The Commissions will be
given the control over various flows of the federal assistance, which in the coming years will be
gradually removed from RosUgol (funds for social assets maintenance, new housing construction,
new job creation and regional development, severance payments). RCC should be major recipients
of TA and they would provide an administrative support for delivery of the technical assistance to
the municipal level, providing relevant participation (representation and coverage) of all main coal



60                                                                            Annex 5
communities. RCC will be partly funded by regional budgets (existing regional development
programs).
29.   Association of Mining Cities (AMC) should also play an important role in TA
implementation. AMC will provide an important insight with respect to final design of the trining
and advisory services (priorities and consequence of proposed activities, main forms and channels
of service delivery). In addition, the association will provide an important feedback regarding actually
delivery of TA and its productivity. AMC, which is a new organization with a small constituent base,
will also need some institutional and organizational support to become self sufficient over two to three
years. This could be achieved through membership fees.
Source and Level of Resources Available
30.   The PIU will have resources for the 5 pilot regions. These will, of course, require review and
revision as the level of detail required in the becomes clearer and also in the light of the actual fee
rates negotiated.
Resources to be Supplied by the Consultant
31.   The consultant is expected to provide expertise, international transportation, international
communications, computer needs. local transportation and accommodations for staff not resident in
Moscow.
Resources to be Supplied by the PIU
32.   The PIU will provide office space, telephones and domestic phone costs, and a counterpart
staff of an appropriate number of individuals to work directly with the primary consultant in the
execution of the program.
Reports
33.   The primary consultant will be required to submit to the PIU:
(a)   an inception report (within 30 days of beginning services) outlining the work schedule
proposed and activities for the first 6 months of the program;
(b)   a quarterly report detailing activities undertaken and projections of work for the next
quarter, problems encountered, recommendations for future actions, and status of
overall program effectiveness.
(c)   a mid-term report establishing progress towards program objectives.
Quahfications Required
34.   The consultant will be expected to have demonstrated experience in the design and
implementation of a range of social programs and funds. and to have experience of working with
local authorities preferably in transition economies. The firm should have experience working in the



Annex 5                                                                            61
area comprising the Russian Federation, and have experience worling with domestic firms in the
execution of eegy business programs. Fluency in the Russian language is desirable.



62                                                                          Annex 5
Attachment A
IMLEMENTATION OF SOCIAL SAFETY NET GUIDELINES:
CONSULTANT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Backgrund
1.    A mechanism will be established whereby all subsidies formerly paid to Rosugol could
be channeled directly to appropriate regional and local government for the maintenance of the
social assets and the creation of programs which will be of direct benefit to miners, their
families and communities. The Government has indicated to the Bank that an agreement has been
reached on a new, more effective approach to allocate both the social sphere and diversification
subsidies starting in January 1997. Arrangements for the second half of 1996 are not yet in
place.
2.    In order to divert the subsidies, it is necessary to define suitable channels and instruments
at Federal, Regional and Local level and to agree on operating arrangements and criteria of
disbursement with the GOR.
3.    The Implementation Assistance Project will put in place assistance both for the Social
Assets Operation and Maintenance and for the design of appropriate mechanisms for the
Community Support and Employment Programs in 5 towns in the coal basins where mines are
scheduled to close.
Objectives
4.    The Technical Assistance for the Conmmunity Support and Employment will be to assist
efforts under the program to:
(a)   put in place an agency or trust to manage the funds and guarantee that the funds
are received by those for whom they are intended. In each town it is possible that
a different local development agency will be set up . . . some could be
incorporated as local enterprises; some could be agents or funds.
(b)   establish a local Supervisor committee; this would comprise representatives of
local administration; business people, trade unions; NGOs; employment services;
(c)   develop a local focus in each community to encourage self dependence; foster
leadership skills; the center will provide information and counselling services and
promote conflict resolution
(d)   develop mechanism for sustainable development (include business incubators;
local credit guarantee schemes); invest funds in environmental maintenance;
utilities improvement schemes including water supply facilities and sewage



Annex 5                                                                            63
(f)   develop emergency social programs; canteens for the poor and disadvantaged;
creation of day care centers; special programs for the unemployed to get credit and
SME taining; job clubs; counselling for disabled and young people leaving school
early.
5.    Environmental concerns will be addressed directly through microprojects which will have a
positive effect on the physical environment.
6.    It is envisaged that this approach will be a demonstration project which will be replicable in
other crisis areas.
Tasks:
(i)   preparation of a package of measures and linkages needed to create a Community
Employment Program to implement local development projects under transparent and
equitable operating guidelines to ensure community support and diversification
programs are funded during the second half of 1996 and thereafter.
(ii)   preparation of a Project Operation Manual which will include (as well as the
regulations and description of the overall scheme) a number of sections which will
address the specific operations of each window or program (e.g., community
programs; business support programs; micro-enterprise credit; training for specific
labor needs; environmental cleanup; housing rehabilitation; kindergarten operations;
community infrastructure; children's playgrounds - all to be determined by the
beneficiaries and by community needs
(iii)  coordination, design, and implement training programs for 5 coal towns.
7.    This would eventually address also the issue of sustainability as such an approach would
ensure that know how would be transferred to the grass root level of local communities who have
no experience of acting on their own initiative.



64                                                                                                    Annex 5



COAL SECTOR RESTRUCU1RING 1MPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ANNEx 6
MANAGEMENT OF STATE FINANCING FOR THE COAL INDUSTRY:
DRAFr TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1.    The coal industry restructuring program initiated by the Russian Federation Government
requires reform of the existing mechanism of state support for the industry.
2.    The restructuring of the coal industry requires a series of measures based on market economic
principles and focus on the transformation of production and organizational structures, and addressing
social and economic problems in the coal regions. A more detailed list of measures may be found
in "Basic Trends for Restructuring the Russian Coal Industry".
3.    The main economic objective behind restructuring is an accelerated formation of coal markets
for competitive coal companies which will not require federal budget allocations for effective
functioning, post-restructuring.
4.    Restructuring will be financed mainly from the federal budget.
5.    In compliance with Presidential Decree No. 168, February 9, 1996, "Measures for Improving
the Structure of the Russian Coal Industry", the Russian Government shall approve of the Regulatory
Document for the State financing of activities providing better understanding of the allocation system
and use of State support funds for Russian coal industry restructuring, as well as, authorizing the
Inter-Agency Coal Commission to approve the schedules for allocating funds and to oversee their
targeted use.
Goals and Objectives
6.    The main objective of the project to improve the management of State financing for Russian
coal industry restructuring (hereinafter referred to as the "Project") is to design a set of measures for
practical implementation of the regulations for the management of State support funds, as specified
by the Regulations "On State Financing for the Russian Coal Industry Restructuring". In order to
implement the above mentioned objective the following must be done:
(i)   identify the drawbacks of the existing system of State support of the Russian coal
industry and list its specific characteristics, to be considered designing a new
mechanism;
(ii)   design the most appropriate and detailed procedures for creating, allocating and
channeling subsidies to the beneficiaries and the procedure to control over their use;



66                                                                              Aanex 6
(iii)  based on specific research, identify criteria for tracking the results of State financial
support for Russian coal industry restructuring and the results of addressing related
social problems in coal mining regions;
(iv)   elaborate the economic patterns and organizational procedures for adjusting the level
of budget allocations in accordance with financial commitments; as well as the
patterns and procedures for adjusting beneficiaries' responsibilities in instance where
promised budget allocations are provided at a different level;
(v)   design a computer system to collect, maintain and process information on State
support funds allocated to each beneficiary, and charting beneficiaries'competence in
meeting obligations.
Specific Activities to be Accomplished
7.    In compliance with the above mentioned objectives the project implementation will include
the development of the following:
(i)    A Systematic Analysis of the Existing Mechanism for Government Support for the
Coal Industry
8.    The first set of measures shall include a general, systematic analysis of the existing
mechanism of financing the Russian coal sector, based on "State Support to Coal Enterprises"
Regulatory Document confirmed by the Council of Ministers and by the Russian Government
Regulatory Document No. 727 of July 27, 1993, "Measures to Support Coal Enterprises and
Taxes/Duties (Excise) for Coal". The first set of activities will result in a general systematic
description of the existing mechanism for the government support for the coal industry, which will
serve as a basis for detaining obstacles to be eliminated, as well as list of positive features to be
maintained while designing a new mechanism for State support for the coal industry.
(ii)   Design a Set of Measures to Implement a Mechanism of Managing the State Support
Funds
9.    The second set of measures set shall be a number of projecting and research activities which
will assist the implementation of state support management regulations set by the Decree "On State
Financing for the Coal Industry Restructuring". These measures shall result in drafting a system of
management for state support funds, to provide their efficient use, which system will include:
*     preparation of financial requests
*     preparation of financing schedules
*     signing agreements specifying beneficiaries' commitments to implement restructuring
*     disbursement of tranches and channeling funds to beneficiaries
*     control over meeting commitments imposed by agreements including control over
targeted use of State support funds
*     adjusting the volume of financing in accordance with achievements in restructuring
as a result of previously allocated State support



Annex 6                                                                             67
*     adjusting beneficiaries' responsibilities in accordance with actual budget allocations
(iii)   Draft Sample Agreements on Use of State Support
10.   The third set of measures will include studies of the experience of signing agreements
concerning State support funds use in Russian coal industry restructuring. Based on this research, to
identify the defects to be eliminated while drafting a sample agreement, and to identify positive
features to be preserved while drafting a new agreement. The third set will also specify the criteria
for adequate description of agreements terms, as well as criteria for fulfilling commitments by budget
funding beneficiaries. Two different situations will be considered: (a) when the existing State system
of accounting contains criteria giving an adequate idea of restructuring results; (b) when the existing
State system of accounting contains no such data. In the second case (b) it is necessary to work out
suggestions about the changes in the State system of accounting, for it to include the information
needed.
11.   The third set will result in draft sample agreements of using federal budget funds, between
state organs responsible for the allocation of the funds (or their authorized agents) and beneficiaries
of the budget funds. The drafts will comply with current legislation and be endorsed and tested in
practice.
(iv)   Patterns for Adjusting Agreements to Use State Support Funds
12.   The forth set of measures will be devoted to the research on modeling relations between the
restructuring and the volume of State financing. Research will result in (a) developing a procedure
for adjusting the level of budget allocations according to restructuring results achieved due to using
previously allocated funds; and (b), elaborating a procedure for adjusting beneficiaries' responsibilities
in accordance with actual budget allocations. The draft procedures will comply with current
legislation, will be endorsed and tested in practice.
(v)   Draft a Computer Program for State Support Management
13.   The fifth set of measures will result in drafting a computer program  for collecting,
maintaining and processing information concerning the distribution and use of State support funds,
and conceming the results of Russian coal industry restructuring achieved due to this funding. The
computer program will be based on procedures, economic pattems and methods specified in the
previously described four sets of measures. The computer program will contain blank forms for
in-coming information and the method of calculating the processing of information. The computer
system will consist of two modules, an informational and an analytical one.
14.   The informational module will provide the programs to register, store an and collect
information conceming the management of State support funds. This module will provide protection
of the data base against unauthorized access, the personal responsibility for the in-coming and
out-going information and also, the access to this information for the state management organs. The
informational module will consist of a number of sub-modules for implementing a set of related
functions:



68                                                                            Annex 6
*     registering and storing information about the financing schedules for specific
beneficiaries and about the targeted use of budget funds;
*     registering and storing information about the responsibilities of beneficiaries of state
support and about the results of the funds use;
*     registering and storing information on actually disbursed tranches with breakdown by
beneficiaries and directions;
*     registering and storing the information about the actual fulfillment of their
commitments by budget fund beneficiaries.
15.   The analytical module will result in a computer format for decision making concerning the
efficient allocation of State support funds. The analytical module will consist of a number of
sub-modules to implement a set of related functions:
*     an analysis of finance schedules to confirm compliance with priorities set by
Government policy for the coal industry and to elaborate recommendations for the
schedules adjustment;
*     formation of a weekly schedule, based on a quarterly schedule, for uniform
implementation;
*     monitoring implementation of financing schedules;
3     calculating the next tranche with the aim to minimize the difference between the
volume of funds actually allocated and that specified in the financing schedule,
considering prior experience of using budget funds, priorities in State support
allocation and the force majeure situations;
*     adjustment of commitments specified in the agreement, regarding the level of budget
allocations in accordance with meeting obligations;
*     adjustment of responsibilities specified in the agreement, in accordance with actual
budget allocations.
16.   Each of the above-mentioned modules and sub-modules will be developed in two stages. The
first stage will result in development of various drafts, within a very short period of time and at low
cost and be tested to choose the best. The second stage will result in the selection of a draft to be
used.
Op
17.   The drafting team will include experts in designing the organizational systems, experts in the
coal industry economics, financing, accounting and statistics, economic legislation, computerization



Annex 6                                                                                                 69
of economic problems, and some technical staff. For each team member, a resume shall be
submitted.
18.    The information on the type of technical equipment and software to be used in the project,
will be produced.
19.    Participants of competitive tender will produce the following information:
*       founding documents;
*       balance sheets for the last 3 years and for the quarter requested;
*       information on similar projects already implemented by firm;
*       references to confirm the professional level and the reputation of firm.
Implementalion Schedule
20.    Implementation of this project will require two research groups to work in parallel. The total
term of work is six months.
Group       Approxinate                                            COmpkIiou
PrQject                   Number        Group Size    Draft Team of Experts   Begin Date         Date
Analysis of the current     1, 2            6         system analyst,         August 1996     September
state financing system                                economist, financial                       1996
analyst, lawyer,
accountant, assistant
Development of ways to       1              6         system analyst,          September      December
manage state financing                                economist, financial       1996            1996
analyst, accountant,
lawyer, assistant
Development of              2               5         economist, financial     September      November
standard agreements on                                analyst,                    1996           1996
use of state financing                                lawyer, accountant,
assistant
Development of              1, 2            6         system analyst,          November    January 1996
mechanisms for                                        economist, financial       1996
modification of                                       analyst, lawyer,
agreements on use of                                  accountant, assistant
state financing
Repods
21.    On completing each intermediate step of work, consultants will present a preliminary report
describing the results of work. This report will be presented to the Supervisor of each category of
subsidy and forwarded to other experts. Experts of corresponding groups will present a complete
report on completing each stage of work. On completion of all work, a final report should be
submitted.



70                                                                              Annex 6
Schoduk
1. June 28, 1996: proposers' conference.
2. July 15, 1996: due date for proposal submission.
3. July 30, 1996: selected proposer interviews in Moscow (optional).
4. August 15, 1996: contract award.
5. October 15, 1996: preliminary reports.
6. January 15, 1997: final report submission.



COAL SECTOR REsrRuCTURING IMLEMENTATION AsSIsTANCE PROJEcT
RuSSIAN FEDERATION
ANNEX 7
SPECiAL PuRPosE AUDITS OF STATE FINANCING FOR THE COAL SECTOR:
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Backgmrund
1.    Restructuring the coal sector is part of the Government's program which is crucial for
sustaining stabilization of the Russian economy. In particular, the coal sector has been the second
largest recipient of budget subsidies in the country. Further, a large part of the subsidies have been
used to cover operational losses of regional coal companies and mine investments, thus hindering
competition and financial discipline in the coal sector. The problems inherent in this subsidy system
have been exacerbated by the lack of transparency and financial accountability in the subsidy
management system.
2.    The Government has placed high priority on restructuring the coal sector. In mid-1993, an
Inter-Agency Commission for Socio-Economic Problems of Coal-Producing Regions (Coal
Commission) was created for the purpose of advising the Government on coal industry restructuring.
Since then, the Government has prepared a large scale restructuring program aimed at transforming
the coal industry into a sustainable and competitive sector of the economy. The principal objectives
of the Program are to: (i) reduce the impact of the coal sector on the federal budget; (ii) promote the
long term sustainability of the coal sector through the establishment of a non-monopolistic,
commercial industry; (iii) increase efficiency through judicious reduction in the size of the industry;
and (iv) cushion the impact of the restructuring on coal miners, their families and affected
communities.
3.    Regulations. The Government Resolution No.598 (May 17, 1996) on "State Financing of the
Coal Industry Restructuring Measures" include, among others, the following provisions:
(a)   reclassification of the subsidy categories. For the first six months of 1996, the
aggregate level of approved budget support for the coal sector has been divided by
the primary recipient, RosUgol, into six main categories: (i) tariff agreement; (ii)
social sphere; (iii) operating losses; (iv) mine closing; (v) investment (including
leasing which was a separate category in 1995); and (vi) central reserve fund. These
categories have been, in turn, subdivided by into some twenty seven subcategories
(Attachment 1). The aforementioned Government Resolution revised the
classifications of subsidies into two broad categories: (i) restructuring; and (ii)
temporary support for production; these are, in turn, divided into twelve
subcategories;
(b)   the Ministry of Fuels and Energy would conclude contracts with the primary
recipients of budget funds, who in turn conclude contracts with the ultimate recipients



72                                                                            Annex 7
of these funds (notably regional coal companies). The number of primary recipients
would increase from essentially only one (RosUgol) to include, among others,
regional administrations. The agreements on targeted utilization of the budget would
include, among others, the amounts of state support fund allocation and commitments
of the recipients of these funds;
(c)   the Coal Commission will allocate quarterly subsidies (broken down on a monthly
basis) to the primary and ultimate recipients on the basis of fulfilling their
commitments, according to the above mentioned agreements, for each preceding
quarter;
(d)   state reporting of actual allocated amounts and results of their utilization, regular
audit, and publication of financial reports are introduced for all levels (stages) of
allocation and utilization of the state support funds; and
(e)   State Committee on Statistics provides to the federal executive bodies quarterly and
annual reports on socio-economic development of the coal mining regions and actual
utilization of the state support funds for the coal industry.
4.    Subsidy Distiibution Mechanisns. Since 1995, the Treasury Department of Ministry of
Finance started to channel subsidy (at least once a week) through an increasing number of regional
Treasury Departments which, in turn, distributed the subsidy through commercial banks to recipients.
By now, about 90% of the subsidies are channelled by these mechanisms. Only 2 regions do not have
Treasury Department; the subsidies for these two regions (0.5% of 1996 subsidy) and those for
central reserve fund continue to be distributed by Rosugol (about 10% of 1996 subsidy).
5.    Proposed Coal Sector Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project. The Government
of Russian Federation has sought World Bank financing for the proposed Project. The ultimate
objective of this Project is to enhance the effectiveness in implementation of the coal sector
restructuring program through assistance to the Government, affected people and organizations.
Specifically, the Project has the following objectives: (a) improvements in management of the
restructuring process through increased participation of stakeholders as well as enhancement in
transparency and openness; (b) in the short run, filling critical skill gaps in a number of key areas,
including subsidy management, which are essential to design the details and implement the
restructuring program effectively; and (c) in the long run, strengthen the country's institutional
capacity to sustain reform.
6.    Project Implementation Arrangements. A Project Preparation Unit (PPU), established in
the Ministry of Economy, is responsible for the preparation of the proposed Coal Sector
Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will build
upon the current PPU in terms of staffing and lessons learned. The PIU, to be entitled
"REFORMUGOL", is planned to be established in June 1996 in the form of a non-commercial
foundation. The Presidium of the Coal Commission would be the Trustee Council overseeing the
PIU. Staffing of PIU is expected to be built up gradually, first with the appointment of the Director
General, the Director for Subsidy Management and a deputy director to coordinate activities under
the proposed Project. In addition, other key managers are expected to be appointed shortly, including



Annex 7                                                                         73
two directors to cover: (a) institutional support for the Coal Commission; and (b) monitoring and
information on restructuring, respectively. PPU would be responsible for managing the bidding
for this assignment (with the assistance of a Financial Advisor) and the PIU would be
responsible for entering into a contract with the selected auditor.
7.    Strengthening of Subsidy Management. This assignment is part of a program planned
to strengthen the subsidy management system in the coal sector. Based on the diagnostic review
and recommended improvements to be developed under this assignment, the Russian authorities
may opt for a second phase program to strengthen the financial control of subsidies by the Coal
Commission. The overall program for strengthening subsidy management would include putting
in place an improved, computerized system for budget allocation, reporting requirements and
impact monitoring. The draft Terms of Reference for this program, which provides the context
but is beyond the scope of the present assignment, is attached for reference (Annex 5!.
Objectives
8.    The ultimate objective of this assignment is to enhance the transparency and financial
accountability of budget support for the coal sector in Russia, focusing on improvements in: (i)
budget allocation; (ii) reporting; (iii) monitoring; and (iv) audits. The specific objective of this
assignment is to (a) assess the status of recipients' compliance with the relevant laws, regulations
and contractual agreements on budget support for the coal sector; and (b) assess the internal
control system of the participating entities and recommend improvements for management of
budget support for the coal sector.
Scope
9.    The scope of audit would cover the segment of the entities' activities related to state
financing for the following five recipients during the first two quarters of 1996 (% of total
subsidy is indicated below): RosUgol (the audit scope would focus on its role as ultimate
recipient for the central reserve fund (9.89%) and leasing activities); and four ultimate recipients:
RostovUgol (11.8%); VorkutaUgol (6.4%), AIK "Sokolovskaya' (1.7%) and KuzbasslnvestUgol
(2%). Brief background information on these five organizations are attached (Attachment 2).
10.   The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Auditing Standards
Auditing (ISA, notably No. 24 on Special Purpose Audit Reports), and will include such tests
and controls as the auditor considers necessary under the circumstances. The audit will
determine, with respect to each entity, whether or not:
(a)   financial reports and related supporting schedules prepared by the entities being
audited give a true and fair view of the financial situation of resources and
expenditures related to state financing; this would include a reconciliation between
the amounts shown as received by organizations involved with all stages of
subsidy management, including the primary and ultimate recipients of subsidies
and those shown as disbursed by the Ministry of Finance, the regional Treasury
Department and the relevant commercial banks for each subcategory of subsidies;



74                                                                             Annex 7
(b)   financial information is presented in accordance with established or stated criteria
by the Government and by RosUgol; in addition, identify specific instances where
the Russian criteria may differ from those presented in accordance with ISA and
the material effect thereof;
(c)   the use of state financing for each subcategory of subsidies has complied with the
relevant laws, regulations, policies and contractual agreements; and
(d)   the internal control systems used in administering state financing are adequate,
in particular the systems used for financial reporting and/or safeguarding
resources against waste, loss and misuse are suitably designed and implemented,
including comments on the adequacy of any computer-based systems. As part of
this review, the auditor will: (i) test whether internal control systems are
functioning in accordance with prescribed procedures; and (ii) examine the
primary recipient's system for monitoring ultimate recipients and test the
consistency of selected financial information between the primary recipients and
ultimate recipients. In addition, based on the auditor's diagnosis on any control
weaknesses, specific recommendations and terms of reference would be developed
by the auditor for a follow up program to strengthen the management of state
financing for the coal sector.
Ouput
11.   The audit report will confirm that the audit was made in accordance with international
auditing standards and the relevant Russian laws, regulations and contractual agreements on
budget support for the coal sector in Russia.
12.   The auditor's report on compliance for each of the five entities on their activities related
to state financing (broken down by each subcategory of subsidies) will contain:
(a)   A  statement of positive assurance with respect to those items tested for
compliance with laws, regulations and contracts pertaining to financial reports,
and any claims for advances and reimbursements (in particular, as indicated in
Attachment 1 on subsidy allocation categories, state financing in 1996 included
"repayment of 1995 arrears").
(b)   A statement of negative assurance on those items not tested and the reasons
therefor.
(c)    A summary of all instances of noncompliance. The report should indicate the
financial and legal impact and any other forms of the noncompliance, including
any errors, irregularities and actions not in accordance with the law.
(d)   An identification of total amounts of expenditures questioned, if any, for each
budget support transaction as a result of noncompliance or insufficient
documentation.



Annex 7                                                                             75
(e)   Other statements or reports to satisfy governmental requirements as stipulated by
the relevant laws and regulations on state financing for the coal sector in Russia.
13.   The auditor's report on internal controls for each of the five entities will include:
(a)   The scope of the auditor's work in obtaining an understanding of the internal
control structure and in assessing the control risk.
(b)   A detailed description of the entity's significant internal controls or control
structure, including the controls established to ensure compliance with laws,
regulations and contractual agreements that have a material impact on the
financial statements and results of the financial related audit.
(c)   The reportable conditions, including comments and observations on the
accounting records, systems, procedures and controls that were examined during
the course of the audit and the identification of any material weaknesses. Based
on the auditor's understanding, assessment of the risk of noncompliance with laws
and regulations, and the risk that the internal control structure might not prevent
or detect noncompliance.
(d)   Any written communications to management regarding internal controls. These
communications might discuss non-reportable conditions found by the auditor.
(e)   Specific comments and recommendations related to improvements in the existing
financial and administrative systems, procedures and controls to ensure that (i)
resources are used in accordance with the relevant laws, regulations, policies and
contractual agreements in an effective and economical manner; (ii) resources are
safeguarded by means of an adequate separation of duties and responsibilities in
authorizing, processing, recording, and reviewing transactions, and providing
assurance that such duties and responsibilities are clearly defined and that
sufficient staff are available to perform them accurately and efficiently; and (iii)
reliable data are obtained, maintained and fairly disclosed in reports.
14.   The output would include (i) a management letter to give comments and observations on
the accounting records, systems, and controls that were examined during the course of the audit;
and (ii) the development of detailed Terms of Reference for a second phase consultancy service
for the detailed design and implementation of the recommended improvements for accountability
for state financing.
Report Dist,ibution (in English, with Russian translation)
*     The five entities audited;
*     the PIU and its Financial Advisor;
*     the Coal Commission; and
*     the World Bank.



76                                                                           Anex 7
Schedule
*     June 21, 1996: proposers' conference in Moscow
*     July 8, 1996: due date for proposal submission.
*     July 25, 1996: selected proposer interviews in Moscow (optional).
*     July 27, 1996: contract award
*     July 29, 1996: entrance conference: first day of field work
*     October 7, 1996: preliminary report and exit conference
*     October 31, 1996: final report submission
15.   It is essential that the final audit report must be submitted by October 31, 1996. In view
of the tight time schedule, it is envisaged that the selected auditor would organize adequately
staffed teams to audit the five entities at the same time.
Qualfication Requirements
16.   The Partner and the Manager who are overall responsible for the assignment each should
possess at least one internationally accepted accounting/auditing qualification with at least ten
years experience of operating in public sector accounting environments, preferably on
Russian-based systems, including the application of auditing and production of audit reports to
the standards called for by the International Federation of Accountants. Knowledge of the coal
sector in Russia will be considered an advantage.
17.   The section leaders responsible for the conduct of the audits should possess a recognized
accounting qualification with at least seven years experience of public sector accounting,
preferably using Russian-based systems.
18.   Audit staff, other than specified above, preferably should possess an accounting
qualification, with at least three years continuous experience of auditing since qualifying and
immediately prior to this assignment.
19.   The ability of all assigned management and personnel to operate using the Russian spoken
and written language, in addition to the English language, will be considered an advantage.



Annex 7                                                                              77
Attachmnent 1
SUBSIDY ALLOCATION CATEGORIES
1.    The Federal Budget of the Russian Federation has set aside Rb. 10.4 trillion for state support
of the coal industry in 1996. For the first two quarters in 1996, the overwhelming majority of the
budget support has been allocated by RosUgol.
2.    When an aggregate level of budget support is settled upon and included in the budget,
Rosugol disaggregates this figure among six [seven] distinct categories: (i) obligations to which the
state has committed itself under the Tariff Agreements concluded with the unions in the industry; (ii)
Capital Investments; (iii) Social Sphere; (iv) Operational Losses; (v) Mine Closures; and (vi) the
Central Reserve Fund. A seventh category, Leasing, which had until recently been subsumed under
the Capital Investment category, has appeared as a main category in its own right in recent Rosugol
allocation schemes.
3.    Each of these main categories is composed of various elements, and allocation of state support
resources among these categories is driven by consolidating the requests for such support received
by Rosugol from the constituent coal companies designated by Rosugol as recipients of state support.
TawffAgreement Suppoil
4.    State support allocated to cover the cost of obligations incurred by the state under the terms
of what are essentially labor agreements concluded with unions representing the coal industry
workforce include: (a) Indexation of Minimum Wage Levels based on inflation rates; (b) Indexation
of Material Damage and Injury to Employees' Health and Lives [Disability Pay]; (c) Indexation of
One-Time Payments to Employees Being Pensioned; and (d) Arrears Associated with the 1995 Tariff
Agreement. 1995 arrears refer specifically to the payment of December [1995] wages, which
traditionally are paid in January using [1996] budget funds. Tariff Agreement obligations are not
limited exclusively to those set forth under the Tariff Agreement category, but include elements of
support allocated under other main categories of state support.
CaUal Investments [Development of PmnductionJ
5.    State financing of capital investments in the coal industry consists of the following elements
of support:
(a)   Repayment of 1995 Arrears     incurred in part because of insufficient funding provided by
the state for these purposes, and in part because of work
performed for which no financing was budgeted in 1995.
These debts account for all state support allocated under the
Capital Investment category in IQ96, and for 28% of the
Capital Investment allocation in 2Q96.



78                                                                                     Annex 7
(b)   Renewal of Productive Potential    this support is provided directly to the coal company and
covers both new construction as well as capacity expansion
at existing production units.
(c)    Rationalization of Production   is intended to finance the renovation and capital repair of
existing production units.
(d)   Regional Contracts, Agreements,   commits coal companies to the rehabilitation (or completion
and Protocols (Social Sphere)   of construction) of social sphere assets prior to their
transfer to municipal administration.
(e)   Investment Programs              pertains to investments managed by Investment Companies
(to which financing is provided) rather than by coal
companies themselves.
(f)    Modernization of Coal
Washeries/Preparation Plants
(g)   Acquisition of Equipment         This element, established as a main category for purposes
(Leasing)                       of state support allocation in recent Rosugol revisions of
the draft allocation plan, is intended to cover big ticket
items (drag lines, conveyor systems, etc.) which coal
companies purportedly cannot afford to purchase outright.
Rosugol has two operational departments - one for
underground mining and another for surface mining -
which acquire this high-value equipment based on requests
from coal companies/production units and lease it out to
coal companies. The equipment is considered to be state
property, and lease payments made to Rosugol are returned
to the Federal Treasury as repayment for the equipment
purchases.
(h)   Agreements of Shared             Refer to arrangements with military-industrial complex
Participation                    plants to develop and produce equipment and materials
needed by the coal industry which heretofore had not been
manufactured in Russia.
(i)    Central Fund                    This has been described as the Capital Investment
contribution to the Central Reserve Fund.
6.     All investments are to be based on specific projects and feasibility studies. Profitability of a
coal company is considered, and coal companies receive support earmarked for specific projects at
specific production units.
Social Sphere [Curent Expenses]
7.     Support for maintenance and operation of social assets not yet transferred to municipal
administration is allocated among the following subcategories: (a) housing stock; (b) kindergartens;
(c) therapeutic spas; (d) socio-cultural structures/assets ([stadiums, boilers, etc.]); (e) discounted/free
coal for pensioners (six tons per pensioner per year is the standard allotment); (f) other social sphere
expenses (medicine, etc.); and (g) repayment of 1995 arrears. These arrears accrued because 1995



Annex 7                                                                              79
funding was insufficient, boilers did not pay for coal, kdndergartens did not pay for food, etc. (other
subcategories generated similar debts as well).
Opentional Losses
8.    Operational losses are provided to those companies which are not able to cover the costs of
production of their production units on the basis of coal sales receipts. These subsidies are calculated
quarterly in order to keep in step with changing prices.
Mine Closures
9.    State support aimed at the liquidation of non viable production units is allocated along the
following lines:
(a)  Technical Work on Mine Closures    Technical mine closure activities include:
1.    Design work and Consulting (which
covers the cost of preparing Feasibility
Studies).
2.    Expenditures on filling in shafts and
structures of connected installations.
3.    Expenditures on environmental protection
and recultivation.
4.    Removal of mine communication
infrastructure.
(b)  Continuation of the Provision of   Costs associated with the provision of such
Essential Services during the     essential services include: Material expenditures;
Closure Process                   Wages; Social sphere supplements; Depreciation
of fixed assets (excluding per ton rates); Other
expenditures; Taxes; and Supplemental payments
to the working disabled.
(c)  Severance Payments                 The several manifestations of severance pay are:
Compensation to workers made redundant as a
result of workforce reduction; One-time
assistance to pensioners upon retirement;
Compensation for unused leave; Shipment of
household belongings and relocation of families;
and Other.



80                                                                            Annex 7
(d)  Housing Construction              State support is to be provided for the
construction of housing for workers laid off from
the industry. With regard to support under this
category in connection with the closure of
Promyshlennaya mine, costs associated with the
completion of construction of housing in Vorkuta
and with the acquisition of apartments (ostensibly
in regions to which redundant workers are being
relocated).
(e)  Capitalization of Funds to Cover  Capitalization refers to the contributions which
Continuing Payments to the Disabled  are made to a Fund which will succeed the
production unit (once the production unit is shut
down) as the provider of compensation to
workers injured or disabled on the job and no
longer able to work. These payments continue
until death and are in addition to state-provided
pensions. The level of contribution to be made by
a coal company is calculated on a per
worker/company/region basis.
(f)  Supplemental Payments to the      Although production has ceased at the production
Working Disabled, Free Coal       unit in advance of closure, free coal delivered
Rations                           from other production units (from those that
produce non-coking coal) is provided to working
pensioners employed to assist with mine closure.
(g)  Diversification                   This subcategory covers costs associated with job
creation and retraining activities.
Centmrl Reserve Fund
10.   The Central Reserve Fund is designed to provide the coal industry with a rapid response
capability in the event of emergencies, disasters, and the like. Commissions which investigate the
cause of such calamities are also financed out of the Central Reserve Fund. The Fund, maintained
by RosUgol, is allocated an amount of state support equivalent to as much as 10% of the amount
allocated to each of the main categories of state support listed above.



Annex 7                                                                           81
Anadiment 2
BRIEF BACKGROUND ON FVE ORGANIZATIONS TO BE AUDITED
1.    RosUgo
a. Location - Moscow.
b.Dcripojn - RosUgol was created as Russia's State Coal Company in Spring 1993 before
which the Russian Coal Corporatization carried out many of the State industry functions. Rosugol,
by decree, expires as an entity in Summer 1996 and by Presidential Decree 168, February 9, 1996,
will become the Russian Coal Company.
2.    RosUgol is seen as the center of Russia's coal sector; there are tangible and intangible
connections to Rosugol amongst Russia's 29 coal associations and even its ten independent
mines/enterprises. RosUgol is highly engaged in sector policy development, equipment leasing,
reaUlocation of profits and investment in Russia's coal regions.
3.    Coal is produced both in deep and surface mines and ranges in quality; preparation facilities
are generally servicing three or more mines and not modernized. Transport is controlled by a
combination of Ministry of Rails, Ports and local mediators generally working on behalf of regional
coal companies or Rosugol in transporting the coal.
(i)   number of mines - there are varying estimates as to the exact number of functioning
mines, surface and deep, in Russia. Rosugol lists 280 mines while figures range from
260 to 303; Rosugol policy generally impacts on all of these mine enterprise activities
in some way.
(ii)   number of employees - Rosugol estimates that in Moscow, 500 Rosugol employees
are working; there are strong indications that following a Democratic Victory in the
Presidential elections, that up to 300 of these employees will be laid off. There are
minimal Rosugol staff at certain regional levels.
(iii)  annual produco - Rosugol claims that in 1995 production was 220 million tons
nationwide and that profits were obtained.
(iv)   projected subsidies 1996 - the approved federal budget for 1996 for the Russian coal
sector is 7.4 trillion rubles federal monies and 3.0 trillion rubles via foreign loans; a
total of 10.4 trillion rubles or over 2 billion US dollars.
4.    RostovUgol - Shakty, Rostov.
a.    Locaton - approximately 880 kilometers from Moscow, Rostov-on-Don (the Don
River) is located in southem Russia closer to ports and local transport than most other
coal regions. Shakty is a particularly poor mining community.



82                                                                            Annex 7
b.    Description -
(i)   number of mines - There are 17 mines operating under the auspices of
Rostovugol; the mines are deep and part of the Donbass coal basin which
carries into Ukraine.
(ii)   number of employees - 1995 figures reflect that 66,204 people were employed
under Rostovugol and that the projection for 1996 is 65,074 employees.
(iii)  annualproducin - estimated 11,565,000 tons in 1995.
(iv)   projected subsidies for first half 1996 - 313,514,000,000 rubles.
5.    VorkutaUgol
a.    Location - approximately 1,980 kilometers from Moscow, the city of Vorkuta is
located at the 67th parallel or 42 kilometers above the Arctic Circle.
b.    Description - because of its location, the region experiences up to ten months winter;
rising transportation costs have negatively impacted on coal sector development in
limiting access to market. Water transport is not consistent in light of freezing
temperatures. Still, as harsh as transport conditions are, Vorkutaugol remains,
nonetheless, closer to certain markets than its Siberians counterparts.
6.    VorkutaUgol is the first coal association where a complete mine closing took place. Two
hours north of Vorkuta in the mine settlement of Halmer-Yu, a mine with up to 90 degree slopes and
extremely harsh mining conditions was closed between 1993 and 1996. Approximately 5,000 people
were relocated.
7.    VorkutaUgol is strongly connected to Rosugol.
(i).   number of mines - There are now 11 mines operating under Vorkutaugol with three
undergoing closing processes. Vorkutaugol is the sole coal company in this region,
however, the independent mine of Vorgashorskaya also is located in Vorkuta and
became independent in 1992.
(ii)   number of employees - 1995 figures reflect that 29,874 people were employed under
Vorkutaugol with 3,396 employees at Vorgashorskaya Mine. Projections for 1996 are
26,591 under Vorkutaugol and 3,378 at Vorgashorskaya Mine.
(iii) annual production - 1 million tons.
(iv)   projected subsidies for first half of 1996 - 161,240,000,000 rubles.
8.    KuzbasslnvestUgol- Kemerovo.



Annex 7                                                                            83
a.    Location - approximately 2,960 kilometers from Moscow, located in western Siberia.
b.    Description - KuzbasslnvestUgol is not a coal company, but rather, a company
created approximately 18 months ago to address issues of "diversifying" the sector,
developing business and investment, creating jobs and divesting the coal companies
of non-core enterprises where possible.
9.    The company is directly linked with Rosugol where, in Moscow, "RosInvest" serves a
parallel function. KuzbassInvestUgol is independent of coal enterprises to some extent (eg. building
local housing and selling to coal enterprises) but coal company officials work with and in
KuzbasslnvestUgol as well.
(i)   number of mines - by virtue of its description, there are no coal mines working under
the auspices of KuzbasslnvestUgol.
(ii)   projected subsidies in first half of 1996 - 968,000,000 rubles.
10.   Sokolovskaya - Kuzbass
a.    Location - western Siberia
b.    Description - an investment company working with Rosugol focused on local
development including mine construction and general construction.
(i) projected subsidies in first half of 1996 - 63,100,000 rubles.



84                                                                                                  Annex 7



CoAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING ImPLEMENTAION ASSITANCE PRoJECT
RUSSAN FEDERATON
ANNEX 8
PREPARATION OF BUSINE PLANS:
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Backgmund
1.    Draft Govemmental Decree on reorganization of "Rosugol" into open-end joint stock
company stipulates that decision of the Govemment about transferring to the charter capitals of the
coal companies of state-owned blocks of shares of joint-stock companies which are dependent on the
correspondent coal companies should be implemented in the presence of business plans. Business
plans are to be aimed at the creating profitable coal companies by means of closure of unprofitable
mines, labor efficiency increase and other measures. It is desirable that business plans include
preliminary investigation of the possibilities of investments in coal mining or preparation. Starting
from 1997, business plan will be included in the agreements between leading and ultimate recipients
of the state support as a necessary part of application for state support.
Objective
2.    The main objective of this component of the TA is to build the capacity of the regional coal
companies to prepare business plans.
Strategy
3.    The purpose of producing a business plan is to:
*     make explicit the assumptions on which the forward planning and projections for the
business are based
*     set out the projections for price trends, sales volumes, market share, production costs,
profitability, cash flow etc.
formalize the economic evaluation of production units, and the identification of
uneconomic units for closure
formalize the economic evaluation and justification for capital expenditure projects to
improve existing production or generate new production capacity
prepare a coordinated timetable for significant business developments (including
closures and capital expenditure)



86                                                                              Annex 8
*     investigate strategy options, and identify the sensitivity of the performance of the
business to changes in the external economic environment of internal risk factors.
Approach
4.    It is proposed that a two-pronged approach is adopted to the provision of technical assistance
on the development of business plans, involving a primary consulting firm and a regional consulting
firm. A Primary consulting firm to establish overall standards and methodology to be applied to all
business plans, who will serve as an overseer of selection and management of qualified firms to work
with each coal company (selected from short lists of qualified firms with experience with the local
conditions prevailing in the specific coal region). The primary firm shall have demonstrated
experience in the development of business plans for the energy sector and experience working in
Russia and/or a working relationship with Russian firms with experience in the energy sector. After
the selection of the primary consulting firm, a step-by-step approach is proposed as follows:
Fust Step: Review the relevant Russian laws and regulations and existing documentation on
the creation of regional coal companies and business plans.
Second Step: Preparation of draft framework of business plans for all regional coal
companies, to be approved by the Coal Commission.
Third Step: TA for the preparation of business plans for 4 pilot coal companies.
Four Step: Based on the experience gained under the pilot, TA for the preparation of
business plans for additional 16 - 20 coal companies.
Specific Activities to be Accomplished by the Primary Consulting FHrm:
(i)    Ensure that the Business Plan framework would provide a basis for attracting external
capital investment to the regional coal companies;
(ii)   Liaise with the PIU, and will be expected to have either in-house or joint venture
expertise to ensure compliance with Russian regulations and standards;
(iii)   Prepare and submit for approval a proposed business plan framework;
(iv)   Assist the PIU to select, by competitive tender, consulting firms with experience in
the specific region for each participating regional coal company;
(v)   Prepare and conduct seminars for the regional consulting companies to build their
capacity in coal sector business plan preparation; in particular, the seminars will
explain the business plan framework, and provide guidance on the preparation
process;
(vi)   Work with the regional coal companies to prepare a draft business plan specifically
tailored to meet the needs of that region and the specific characteristics of each mine



Annex 8                                                                              87
site(s). The primary consultants will review the draft business plan and propose
revisions as necessary.
Specific Activities to be Accomplished by Regional Consuling Finns
5.    The regional consultant will review the proposed revisions with the regional coal company
and, working together, will prepare a revised business plan.
Conflis of Interest
6.    The business plans will contain commercially confidential infornation relating to the regional
coal companies. In an environment where changes in the structure of ownership and subsidy
management will introduce a greater degree of competition among coal companies, it will be
important to provide safeguards for the confidentiality of this information. Such safeguards might
include:
*     requiring the regional coal companies to approve the selection of the sub- consulting
firm that will assist in the preparation of their business plan.
-     enabling the IAC to require the trust managers of each coal company receiving state
support funds to submit, for such companies, an annual business plan conforming
with the approved framework; in the case of coal companies which do not receive
state support funds, the IAC would place no obligation on the relevant trust manager
to submit an annual business plan.
3     requiring, prior to their appointment, the primary consultant to demonstrate that they
have no connection with or interest in the coal sector (or, that any such connection
or involvement will not give rise to a conflict of interest).
Reports
7.    The primary consultant will be required to submit to the PIU:
(a)   an inception report (within 30 days of beginning services) outlining the work schedule
proposed and activities for the first 3 months of the program;
(b)   a quarterly report detailing activities undertaken and projections of work for the next
quarter, problems encountered, recommendations for future actions, and status of
overall program effectiveness.
(c)    a mid-term report establishing progress towards program objectives.
Qualificaons Required
8.    The primary consultant will be expected to have demonstrated experience in the preparation
of business plans for restructuring programs in the energy fields, with emphasis on the coal sector
highly desirable. The firm should have experience working in the area comprising the Russian



88                                                                             Annex 8
Federation, and have experience working with domestic firms in the execution of energy business
programs. Fluency in the Russian language is desirable.



COAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING IMPLEMENTATION ASSiSTANCE PROJECT
RUSSAN FEDERATION
ANNEX 9
MANAGEMENT/FiNANCIAL TRAINING:
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1.    As market reforms in the coal sector continue to take place, the responsibilities of
managers at all levels is increasing. The former responsibilities of meeting five year plans and
production goals have expanded to include structuring the enterprise, achieving profit, managing
personnel, and maintaining relations with consumers.
2.    Experience in market management is greadly lacking in Russia's coal sector; skills
currently used are generally a mix of Soviet-style management with sporadic attempts to
introduce more market-oriented methods of management. The skills which are lacking are
extremely basic in market terms, but nonetheless crucial to effective management.
3.    It is important to recognize how lacking management skills are not only for regional and
local coal enterprise managers, but for non-coal enterprises and trade unions. Many of the skills
which industry managers must now acquire will also serve to build capacity of other structures
in coal regions.
Approach
4.    A Business Center structure already in operation in Russia, if not Russian coal regions,
would ideally serve as a model for replication in the coal regions. This structure should focus
on local staffing and ongoing in-house training as well as the provision of information and
services.
5.    The center should focus on developing or enhancing efforts in five coal regions (Tula,
Rostov, Vorkuta, Kuzbass and Urals) where ongoing training and access to management training
materials will function. The center must have the capacity to present training in areas outside
of the center location and will coordinate efforts with those on "Business Planning",
"Encouraging Investment", "Industrial Relations", and "Community Development" programs
included in this TA program.
6.    Training programs and dissemination of management training materials may be conducted
at the centers or at the site of training outside of the center (e.g., coal enterprise). It is
understood that different approaches may necessarily be applied in different regions.
7.    The center will work in close coordination with the Inter-Agency Coal Commission and
PIU.



90                                                                          Annex 9
Scope of Work
Task 1: To assess the status of management training operations in the identified coal
regions including assessment of institutes, coal and non-coal enterprises and local
government.
Task 2: To establish or enhance training center operations in the five coal regions
including technical support and staffing. Identify training materials which are already
developed and need to be developed and modify in accordance with coal and non-coal
enterprise needs.
Task 3: Submission of materials now used for management training to the PIU including:
Personnel Management           Organizational Structures
Financial Management           Consumer Awareness
"How To's" - run a meeting; write/present a speech
Inter-Industry Relations       Industry Relations
Marketing/Sales                Civil Code practices
Investment/Credits             Environmental Management
Task 4: Work with local counterparts per IAC and PIU coordination in selecting
management training participants; a system of training requests from beneficiaries must
be formulated and used. Ideally training will occur both at the centers and at the coal
mines and non-coal enterprises in response to enterprise request.
Task 5: Present training and pertinent training materials to selected participants
according to training plan developed for particular course or enterprise/union.
Task 6: Develop a "Train the Trainers" program through which local participants will
be given the opportunity to reach out to additional coal regions and present similar
training.
Task 7: Develop and implement "Follow-On Training" for participants where increased
levels of knowledge and participation will result.
Task 8: Where possible, assist in direct application of management training at local
enterprise or union (eg. consultant may attend meeting, speech, advise on organizational
charts, review program budgets).
Task 9: In offering training, both "knowledge" and "skills" training should be
video/audio taped both for future review as well as immediate review by participants of
training sessions. Participant and trainer feedback will provide useful information for
continued training.



Annex 9                                                                       91
Task 10: Where funding permits, development of overseas training which will build on
knowledge obtained during training; ideally, potential trainers should be collected and
will receive such extended training in a Western European or United States program.
TerVn of Work
8.    The Management Training Program will be administered over a two year period.
9.    Outputs
a. Maintenance of Data Base of Management Training participants by region, topic, dates
of training, follow-on;
b. Maintenance of Data Base of regional and local management training courses,
programs, activities;
c. Publication of training materials; annual updating of materials and as required; copies
should be distributed to regional training centers, local coal enterprises, the regional and
federal IAC offices and the PIU;
d. Maintenance of management training and other training materials available by e-mail,
hard copy.



92                                                                                                     Annex 9



COAL SEcrOR RESuCTuRING IMPLEME:NTAnON ASSISmNcE PRoJEcr
RuSSIN FEDERATON
ANNEX 10
TECHNCAL ASSISrANCE ON TRUsT MANAGEMENT:
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1.    The principles and guidelines of reforming the coal industry management system are set
out in "The Basic Trends of the Restructuring". Presidential Decree, No. 168, February 9,
1996, "On Measures to Improve the Structure of the Russian coal industry" is of paramount
importance for the implementation of the above principles and guidelines. In compliance with
the Decree, by end June 1996 the Government will convert the state company Rosugol into an
open joint-stock company.
2.    By the end of October 1996 the Government will:
(a)   approve rules governing the trust management of state shares in coal companies,
including those covering appointment of new trust managers and their obligations
to the federal authorities;
(b)   transfer to the charter capital of these selected companies the state shares in
related companies, as envisaged in Presidential Decree no. 168; and
(c)   issue to potential bidders for trust management contracts for the selected
companies all of the information required by them for the preparation of their
bids.
3.    Using this mechanism, by the end of December 1996 the Government will ensure that
new trust managers will control coal companies that produced in aggregate not less than 65
million tons of coal in 1995, i.e., approximately 25% of the volume of coal produced in the
Russian Federation.
4.    Not later than three months after the competitive selection of trust managers of state
shares in the above-mentioned coal companies the relevant Federal executive bodies will review
the business plans submitted by the new trust managers.
5.    As far as other currently operating coal companies and joint-stock companies are
concerned, by end December 1996, the Coal Commission will define measures to accelerate
demonopolization in the coal industry in 1997.



94                                                                               Annex 10
Apprach
7.    Introducing trust managers other than RosUgol is proposed to take place in two distinct
phases. Firstly, the managers of one or two transformed regional companies will assume trust
management of the state's shares in them. As this process is expected to begin as soon as possible,
legal advice will be arranged to be made immediately available to the Government. It is expected that
the consultant will find an initial legal framework in place. Copies of all relevant legal material will
be made available.
8.    The second phase will concentrate on attracting outside trust managers, and will require a
consultancy firm to examine the feasibility of this and then organize a suitable bidding process. This
Terms of Reference is for this initial feasibility work and subsequent recruitment of trust managers.
Specific Activiies to be Accomplished by Consultant
9.    The PPU will have appointed legal experts to advise the Government on how its interest can
best be served in the trust management contracts. These legal experts will have drawn up prototype
trust management contracts containing very strict obligations on the trust manager, so that the initial
non-RosUgol trust managers (drawn from the coal companies themselves) are sufficiently controlled.
10.   A consultancy firm, with experience in issues of management of companies owned by the
state, is required to devise a bidding process for future outsider trust management contracts.
Task 1: The consultancy firm meets representatives from various potential trust managers
outside the coal companies (investment funds, banks, Russian consultancy firms, RosUgol,
Rostopprom, foreign coal companies), and builds up a picture of what rewards and
responsibilities (including penalties) the interested parties consider realistic.
Task 2: Prepare report on (a) list of potential organizations to invite; (b) scope of the bidding
document; (c) implications for the draft trust management contract, and discusses and agrees
with the Government.
Task 3: The consultancy firm assists the Government in defining the eligibility criteria for
trust managers, taking into account the issues raised in the meetings in Task 3.
Task 4: The consultancy firm works together with the legal experts and the Government to
revise trust management contracts ready for the open bidding process (these may be slightly
less strict than those for the initial insider trust management contracts).
Task 5: Invitations to bid for two pilot trust management contracts are written by the
Government with the help of the consultancy firm, and then distributed and/or published. At
this stage, it is envisaged that bids will take the form of proposed trust management fees, with
the lowest acceptable fee winning the contract.
Task 6: The consultancy firm assists the Government in managing the bidding process, and
assists in the assessment of the bids received for the two pilot invitations.



Annex 10                                                                                                95
7imetable for the Introduction of Trust Management for Regional Coal Companies
Week                     Preparing Companies                           Prepaing Coztrss
1         Establish composition of first two new regional  Negotiate appointment of legal advisers and
companies (mines, ancillary businesses). Give notice  consultants on trust management process
of shareholder meetings for identified companies
2          Give notice of shareholder meetings for remaining    Furst draft of template trust management
(3rd level) companies                          contract; finalize appointment of consultants
3,4         Seek shareholder approval for swap/capital     Comment of draft share template contact from
expansion                                      Min Econ, Min Fin, Min Top, GKI, SCAP,
the two companies. Research by consultants
among potential trust managers
5          First shareholder meetings                     Revised draft template contact. Consultant
research continues
6          Remaining shareholder meetings                 Approval of template contract. Consultant
continues
7          Award of trust management contracts to boards of    Consultants propose list of potential trust
two new regional companies                     managers. Recommend bidding process.
Suggest modifications to template contract
8-10        Establish composition of first group of regional  Government approval of consultants' proposal.
companies for competitive management contracts.    Revision of template trust contract. Start
Give notice of shareholder meetings            drafting Invitation to Tender
11-12       Seek shareholder approval for transformation    Draft Invitation to Tender
13-14       Shareholder meetings for first group
14                                                        Govermnent approval of Invitation to Tender
15                                                        Issue of Invitation to Tender
20                                                        Bids received
21-22                                                       Evaluation of bids
23-24                                                       Negotiation of contracts
25                                                        Award of trust management contracts for first
group of coal companies



96                                                                                                 Annex 10



CoAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING IMPEENTATION ASSIsTANCE PRo1ECr
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ANNEX 11
ENCOURAGING INVESnMNT IN THE RusSIAN COAL NDUSTRY:
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.    Objectives. The objective is the building of the capacity of regional coal companies to attract
external investment.
2.    Appmach. As described below, this Technical Assistance will require contributions from a
consultant with experience working in the Russian Federation and/or in joint venture with a qualified
Russian firm. It is envisaged that the consultant will be acknowledged specialists in delivering training
material on financial services, and public relations, respectively.
3.    Specific Activities to be Accomplshed
Task 1: The consultant prepares and conducts training seminars for the regional coal
companies on the main issues surrounding project finance and investment.
Task 2: The regional coal companies submit proposals for pilot investment projects for
assessment by the consultant, which then identifies the four most promising projects for
submission to the PPU/PIU, and subsequently to the IAC for approval.
Task 3: The consultant works with the chosen regional coal companies to develop a suitable
presentation for the pilot investment projects.
Task 4: The consultant identifies potential investors for the pilot investment projects.
Task 5: The consultant develops a marketing strategy for the pilot projects, including if
appropriate seminars or open days for potential investors.
Task 6: The consultant will provide assistance in evaluating the various options available to
the regional coal companies to select preferred financial institutions for detailed negotiations
on the terms of external financing.
Task 7: The consultant assists the regional coal companies in their negotiations with the
selected financial institutions.






COAL SECTOR RESTRUCTRING IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANcE PROJECT
RuSSIAN FDERATION
ANNEX 12
TA ON MINE CLOSURE PROPOSALS:
DRAFT ITRMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1.    The Main Guidelinesfor Restnrcturing Russia's Coal Industry, approved by the Inter-Agency
Coal Commission, July 14, 1995, provide an implementation framework for closing non-viable and
unprofitable coal mines as a component of overall coal sector restructuring. The objectives of these
guidelines are to:
*     enhance the efficiency of the coal sector;
*     enhance miner safety;
*     reduce the amount of funds allocated to support coal sector enterprises which cannot
meet expenses from coal sales;
*     increase the amount of funds allocated for social services;
*     make coal companies more attractive for investors;
*     reduce the negative environmental effects of non-viable and unprofitable mines.
2.    Depending upon the form of their organization and operational cost, unprofitable mines are
to be closed in accordance with Russian Civil Code, Banknuptcy of Enterprises and other legal acts.
In addressing the specific features of closing coal mines, "The Main Principles of Closing Non-Viable
and Unprofitable Mines in Russia" was approved by the Inter-Agency Coal Commission in May
1994.
3.    The existing mine closure guidelines have a number of drawbacks. Specifically, they do not
provide for the following:
*     participation of all stakeholders (e.g., enterprise managers and municipal authorities)
in determining whether a coal mine should be categorized as un-economic or non-
viable;
*     detailed decision-making processes to close a mine under the relevant laws and
regulations;
*     whether a coal mine owner can determine its closure;
*     whether or not state financing of mine closure will commence only when the owner
decides to close the mine in a manner consistent with prevailing laws and regulations;
*     the role of the Inter-Agency Coal Commission in overseeing the closure process;



100                                                                          Annex 12
*     specification of information to be presented to the relevant state agencies for planning
and control of budget expenditures to cover mine closure costs;
4.    Based on recent experience, RosUgol has drafted a new version of the guidelines, entitled to
"Ihe Main Guidelines for Closing Non-Viable and Unprofitable Coal Mines". This document was
approved in February 1996 subject to the addition of provisions to ensure the targeted use of budget
funds allocated for mine closures, guarantees of employment and social security for redundant
miners, and strengthening the role of municipal authorities in the implementation of socio-economic
programs in coal mining regions.
Objecdes
5.    The main objective is to develop an improved version of "The Guidelines for Closing Non-
Viable and Unprofitable Mines in Russia" taling into account IAC's comments listed above and to
design a set of measures to ensure the practical implementation of closing non-viable and unprofitable
mines.
6.    Tasks. These include the following:
Task 1. To review the existing procedure for closing non-viable and unprofitable mines; to
identify problems in the procedure, and to identify parts of the procedure which should
remain.
3     To examine the existing practice of closuring non-viable and unprofitable mines of
various institutional and legal issues with the goal of standardizing decision-making,
planning and accounting procedures.
*     To identify possible problems and conflicts existing in current mine closures by
reviewing actual cases of mine closures.
*     To standardize the legal documents regulating the mine closure procedures.
Task 2. To revise 7he Main Guidelines of Mine Closures, taking into account the IAC's
comments and to recommend improvements in current mine closure practices. This version
will provide options for closing mines, strengthen the legal basis of measures related to
closing, introduce a schedule of budget financing for mine closing, minimize the negative
consequences of mine closing as a result of poor financing and lacking social security
measures for laid-off workers, their families, and pensioners and invalids who worked in the
coal industry, and assurance that no mine be closed and that no worker be laid-off without
corresponding social security which must be financially covered.
Task 3. Prepare suggestions for preparation of mine closure plans by coal enterprises, based
on well-determined decisions wherein mines have been placed in categories such as viable,
non-viable, etc.
*     Criteria should be designed for a coal enterprise which consists of one or several
mines, and auxiliary or maintenance enterprises which would help in determining the
mine category.



Annex 12                                                                          101
*     Where possible, the preparation of closing plans by specialists employed at these
enterprises.
*     Establishment of consulting services related to the preparation of mine closing plans.
Task 4. Development of criteria to design mine closure plans.
*     The definition of different categories of mine-closing operations.
*     Creation of a mine closing program model.
*     Development of a standard classification of expenditures connected with min closures,
including technical and environmental aspects, worker social security, and support of
social assets during the closing of enterprises.
Task 5. Creation of computerized system to manage the process of closing of non-viable and
unprofitable mines.
*     To list subsystems to be computerized to create a system of managing the of mine
closing process.
*     To create economic models of the subsystems.
*     ,To create models of incoming and outgoing documents within the framework of each
subsystem.
7.    Output. This will include the following:
*     A new version of Main Principles of Closing Non- Viable and Unprofitable Coal
Mines in Russia.
*     Criteria for coal enterprise mine closing plans including categorization of non-viable
and unprofitable mines;
*     Suggestions and development of consulting services related to preparation of mine
closing plans.
*     Development of criteria for Mine Closure Plans.
*     Develop computerized system to manage the mine closure process.
8.    The scope of work of the project will require 50 staff months, and will be completed within
6 months from commencement of work.
Reporlng
9.    Bi-weekly work reviews will be conducted between the consultants and PPU. An interim
report will be presented at the end of two months to the PPU reflecting the results achieved, and
problems confronted and any suggested changes in the work plan. After five months from the
beginning of work a draft report should be submitted to the Project Preparation Unit, which will
review same and present comments within one week. The final version of the report must be
prepared within 3 weeks after receiving comments from the PPU.






COAL SECTOR RESrRUCTURING IMPLEMENTATON AsSsTANcE PROJEcT
RussAN FEDERATION
ANNEx 13
MANAGING ENviRoNMENTAL REHABIITATON:
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1.    The restructuring of the Russian coal industry will leave a residue of past environmental
damage that must addressed over an indefinite period of time. To ensure that these problems do not
hinder the process of breaking up and privatizing enterprises in the industry, it will be necessary to
develop institutional arrangements for dealing with them, including appropriate financial mechanisms.
2.    The potential costs of rehabilitating areas damaged by past mining activities have been
highlighted in the course of developing and implementing a program of mine closures. However,
it should be stressed that the need to address these problems does not arise as a consequence of a
decision to close a mine. It applies equally to mines that continue to operate, but until now the costs
of rehabilitation have been either neglected or hidden by traditional arrangements operating within
a monolithic, state-owned industry.  Neither response is appropriate once the industry is
decentralized. Further, potential private investors will be understandably reluctant to accept open-
ended commitments with respect to the consequences of decisions over which they have no control.
Thus, resolution of the problems posed by environmental liabilities is an important element in
attracting investment into the competitive core of the industry.
3.    Coal mining can cause various kinds of environmental damage from the disturbance of
agricultural or other lands to water or air pollution associated with mining activities or the disposal
of mining wastes. Local environmental authorities in the coal basins have considerable experience
in working with coal mines to mitigate the impact of current mining operations on the environment.
These arrangements work as well as or better than other aspects of environmental management in
Russia, so there is no special need for technical assistance in this sphere. However, there is a
substantial residue of environmental damage -- disturbed lands, spoil heaps that may be prone to start
burning, subsidence, and acid drainage from old mine workings and waste sites. In principle, mines
or mining companies are responsible for mitigating or remedying the environmental damage. In
practice, they have little incentive or reason to do this, and it may not be possible to transfer the
responsibility to any successor body when mines close, merge, or are reorganized.
4.    The issue of cleaning up past environmental damage is not special to the coal industry.
Indeed, the environmental liabilities of the petroleum, chemical, and metallurgical sectors are likely
to be much larger than those of the coal industry. Unfortunately, too little thought has been given
to the problems raised by such liabilities when other industries were privatized either because it was
assumed that the industries would be able to meet the costs involved without too much strain or
because it was recognized that the worst liabilities would eventually finish up sooner or later as the
Government's responsibilities. Such neglect would not be acceptable in the coal industry both



104                                                                          Annex 13
because of the strength of feeling among the workforce about environmental damage caused by
mining in some areas and because of the fragmented nature of the industry.
Objectives
5.    Thus, a program  of work to develop mechanisms for managing the rehabilitation of
environmental damage linked to coal mining would be undertaken under the auspices of the Proposed
Coal Sector Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project. The objectives of this program would
be to:
(a)   assess the scale and nature of the environmental liabilities of the coal industry;
(b)   define criteria for setting priorities concerning the most urgent problems;
(c)   develop institutional arrangements and responsibilities for undertaking rehabilitation
either directly or via agents (such as local authorities and the independent coal
companies);
(d)   recommend financial arrangements for funding the costs of rehabilitation; and
(e)   initiate a program for remedying the most urgent and important problems.
Strategy and Approach
6.    A consulting firm is required to (i) visit the principal coal basins, (ii) review data on current
or potential future environmental liabilities, (iii) develop priorities for environmental rehabilitation
and land reclamation, (iv) estimate the costs of a medium-term program of work, (v) propose a
framework in which the responsibility for identifying, developing and managing the rehabilitation
projects is devolved to local authorities, and (vi) draw up recommendations for funding the
rehabilitation work. The federal Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and the Ministry
of Fuel and Energy have created a small group as a supervisory body. The authorities and
responsibilities of this group should be assesses by the consultant and recommendations as to its role
should be included in the final report.



COAL SEcToR RESrRucTuRiNG IM       ENTAnON AssrANCE: PRoJEcr
RussIAN FEDERATION
ANNEX 14
PRoJECr PROCuREmENT AND MANAGEMENr ADVISORY SERvIcES:
DRAT TEM   OF REFERENCE
Backg und
1.    The Government of Russia has requested World Bank financing of $25 million to support the
undertaking of a project (the Project) to enhance the effectiveness in implementation of the coal sector
restructuring program through assistance to the Government, affected people and organizations.
Specificaly, the project has the following objectives: (a) improvements in management of the
restructuring process through increased participation of stakeholders as well as enhancement in
transparency and openness; (b) in the short run, filling critical skill gaps in a number of key areas
which are essential to design the details and implement the restructuring program effectively; and (c)
in the long run, strengthen the country's institutional capacity to sustain reform.
2.    Under the general supervision of the Ministry of Economy (MOE), the Project Preparation
Unit (PPU) has been established to prepare the Coal Sector Restructuring Implementation Assistance
Project. Building on the staffing and experience of the PPU, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
entitled 'ReformUgol", will be established shortly. It will be a non-commercial foundation who will
have overall responsibility for the implementation of the project, including among others,
management of all procurement, disbursement and administrative aspects. It wiU also monitor the
overall performance of the consultants, review the recommendations and conclusions of the studies,
and support their implementation.
3.    The PPU faces an urgent short-term task, i.e., undertake procurement of a long-term
procurement firm that will assist the PIU undertake a program of selection and award of technical
assistance contracts to implement the project. The long-term consultant to be selected will support
the PIU's overall project activities and ensure that the requirements of Bank Guidelines on
procurement of services and goods are understood and met by the many entities they will be dealing
with in the execution of the project.
4.    The PIU will be headed by a Director General (DG) who will be assisted by specialized staff
members. The DG will be assisted by several Directors in particular areas of activity (e.g. subsidy
management) and a Deputy Director to coordinate activities under the proposed project. the PPU
will be assisted by long term consulting services, to be financed under the Project, providing
procurement and management advice.
PPU Punctions
5.    The PIU is the focal point for the Project and is responsible for its overall execution. With
regard to the support of consulting assignments, the PIU will:



106                                                                          Annex 14
(a) Finalize bid packaging;
(b) Review TORs;
(c) Review short lists of proposed consultants;
(d) Coordinate bid responses;
(d) Assist in evaluations;
(e) Assist in preparing and reviewing contracts;
(f) Prepare and maintain a master schedule of project execution and monitoring;
(g) Maintain a consolidated project cost accounting system;
(h) Organize and direct a project reporting system;
(i) Provide overall procurement/contract management;
(j) Train staff in Bank requirements;
(k) Process and approve Withdrawal Applications for the Bank loan;
11) Arrange for and coordinate all necessary Bank approvals;
(m) Arrange for and obtain customs/immigration clearances;and
(n) Liaison with the Bank and other donors as required.
6.    With regard to the purchase of equipment to be financed under the Project, the PPU will
provide the same services as above but will insure that World Bank procedures are employed by the
respective enterprises.
Objectve of the Consulting Services
7.    The consultant will work directly with the PIU staff in the preparation of the Terms of
Reference and preparation of documentation for the procurement of technical assistance and services
to be organized at the community and regional level by public and private individuals, enterprises,
local authorities and non-governmental organizations in support of the Coal Restructuring progam
objectives. The consultant will assist the PIU staff in the design and application of evaluation criteria,
advise on the procedures for evaluation, and assist in contract award and negotiations. The consultant
will ensure that Bank procurement guidelines for goods and services, and the use of consultants, are
understood and used by PIU staff, and that all Bank prior review requirements are met. In addition,
the consultant will assist the PIU in the development and application of operational procedures and
guidelines to be used by the PIU for the development and/or evaluation of proposals from entities to
be supported under the Project. This will include the revising, as appropriate, of the PIU's Operations
Manuals covering internal organization and project management.
8.    The objective is to execute the Coal Sector Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project
as soon as possible, and achieve in the process a fully functional and trained PIU with established
operational procedures, a project development and management system, procurement, financial
management and disbursement systems, and a management information system to prepare specialized
reports and audits.
Scope of the Consulfting Services
9.    The services will be provided over a one year period starting from 30 days after contract
signature. The first priority will be to provide assistance to the PIU in preparing the LOI for audit
advisory services. The second priority will be the development of an action plan to undertake the



Annex 14                                                                            107
preparation of LOIs and Requests for Proposals for the procurement of other high priority services
under the Project. The third priority will be to assist in development of criteria and procedures for
evaluation of proposals and contract preparations and negotiations. The fourth priority will be the
ongoing process of review and revision of operational manuals covering all aspects of the PIU
operations, and the training of staff in their proper application.
10.   In preparing these documents. the consultant will ensure that Bank procurement guidelines
are incorporated therein, and as part of this process, will assist the PIU with the preparation of any
other draft documents, for use by the PIU or any of its sub-contractors or recipients of Loan funds,
in seeking and procuring other high priority services and goods, including preparing bid documents
and the evaluation of bid and consultant proposals.
11.   The consultant will also assist the PIU to maintain an overall project scheduling and
monitoring plan that identifies key steps in the procurement process, which entities are responsible
for their execution, and tracks their progress.
12.   The consultant will report to The Director General of the PIU or his designee, and will be
assisted by PIU staff.
Level of Effort
13.   The consultant is expected to provide up to 15 person months of expertise over a period of
one year in the following categories:
(a) Procurement Planning and Administration          12 Person Months
(b) Project Planning and Management                  2 Person Months
(c) Administration and Financial Management           1 Person Month
(d) Management Information Services                  2 Person Months
Thme Schedule and Repodts
14.   The consultant will be expected to begin to provide services within 30 days of contract
signing. At the end of the contract period, the consultant will provide an end of contract report
detailing his activities and, as appropriate, any recommendations for RefromUgol's future use. In
addition the consultant will provide:
(a) an inception report outlining the proposed work plan for the first 90 days.
(b) a brief monthly report to the Director General on activities.
(c) a mid-term report outlining progress towards objectives.



108                                                                          Annex 14
To be PNwidd by te PIU
15.   The PIU will provide all the necessary date required to complete the assignment, unlimited
local telephone, fax and mail services, office supplies, secarial services, suitable office space,
office equipment and furniture.
To be Provided by dhe Consultant
16.   The Consultant will provide his/her own living accommodations.
ExpWAie Required
17.   The Consultants will have extensive experience in the field of technical assistance and
procurement management. Familiarity and previous experience in the understanding and application
of World Bank procurement guidelines for goods and consultant services, notably the preparation of
procurement and project documentation is essential. Previous experience in the procurement of goods
and services in the Russian Federation is highly desirable. Proficiency in the Russian language is
deirable.



SCHEDULES






81 Z                                                            
E2[-0ta0orot 1e   1         T _          I             e       tfrl>              1a I
il ~~~~~~tot|{             
or   MR   '   S   Sb  Ww                          ww                W         X  g~~~~~~~-
CP -   E                                                                 ;; 6:t
B.   9                         X                        t [   t                N            S~~~~~~~~~~r
B'  -:'    , .  ,,    ,, ,, . '--'  . ',.' '--    _                    t 
a tS                    S        v     9 Xi             t          



Table Il: Procurement Schedule
Major Acdvities Schedule (Data)
Category             Packge           Procurment MNhod
lIne Doms        Bida/Pro.Ree'd.   Contract.Sigued    Staft/Deliver-
Computers                     3                 International             June. 1997I            July,           Aug., 1997        Sept, 1997
Shopping                                        1997
Computers                    10            NationalShopping(NS)          October, 1996it      Nov.. 1996         Dec., 1996        Jan., 1997
Dffice Equipment             10                     NS                   August, 1996i        Sept., 1996          Oct..           Nov., 1996
1996
onsuskanta
ndustrial Relations           1                 Sole source                Sept, 1996         Sept, 1996         Oct., 1996        Oct.. 1996
10            Guidelinee(shortlikt)          Dec. 1996           Jan, 1997        March, 1997       Apr.. 1997
?ublic Communicstion
Phae one                      I                 Sole ource                 June 1996          July.1996          July,1996        Aug 1996;
-Phasetwo                     1              Guidelince(shortlist)         Oct. 1996             Nov.,            Jsn, 1997         Jan 1997
1g96
Social Asseament              I             Guidelines(shortlist)          July. 1996         July. 1996         Aug. 1996         Aug. 1996
Social Impact Monitoring      1             Guidelinesa(hortlist)          July, 1996         Aug, 1996          Aug. 1996         Sept, 1996
Social Safety Net:
Comm. Supp(Design)            1                 Sole source               June. 1996          July,1996          July 1996        July, 1996
Social Progrsm (TA            I             Guidelines(short t)           Sept., 1996         Oct., 1996         Dec. 1996        Jan., 1997
kbaiznug)
Subsidy Mng                   3             Guidelines(short ht)           July. 1996         July, 1996         Aug, 1996         Aug, 1996
Uoc/Rep/Monitoring.
ubsidy Mng.                  2              Guidelines(short list)        June, 1996          July, 1996        July, 1996       August. 1996
kudits
3usmes Plans                                Guidelines(shortlist)         Aug., 1996
Prep. of Plas                                                                                Sept., 1996        Nov., 1996        Dec, 1996
Ungement Financial            2             Guidelines(shortist)          Dec., 1996          Jan. , 1997        Feb., 1997       March, 1997
Trust Management
Model Agreement &
idding Process               I             Guidelinesa(hortlist)          June.. 1996        July., 1996        July, 1996       Aug., 1996
Encour. Externl Finance       1             GuideGine(slhortlist)         Jan. , 1997         Feb., 1997        Msrch, 1997       April, 1997
Environ., Mng.                I             Guidelines(shortlist)            Jan.,            Feb., 1997        March, 1997       April, 1997
1997
Mine Cloure                                 Guidelines(shortlist)          July, 1996         Aug, 1996          Aug, 1996         Sept, 1996
PIU Procurement
Audit Bidding                 I                Sole source.d/             June, 1996         June, 1996          June, 1996       June., 1996
*Procurement                  2              Guidelines(shortHst)          July, 1996         Aug. 1996          Sept, 1996       Sept., 1996
Special Support Serviees c,                                                                        _-
A     tociation of Mining    c1 se footnote                            Proposals will be based upon development of specialized terms of reference
itie and local                                                        developed by PIU and guidance to potential recipients on preparation of proposl.
overnments                                                             This process is expected to commence in June, and approvals are expected to take
two months.
rrade Unions                  2                 see footnote
IndependentCoal               1                 sec footnote
Companmes



Major Activities Schedule (ate.)
Category              Package           I!roeurme  Mdbhod
lInae Does.       Bidu/Pro.Rec'd.    Contract.Signed    StaftlDeliverL'
Pilot Activities of             to be               See footnote             Conditionofdisbusementis to agree onmnwdalityofimnplemnctationarmngemenb,
Community                    detennined                                      inchuding but not limited to procurement.
Support/Employwent
Progm
kectureaL Coda
PIU Administration -            N/A                     N/A                         N/A                  N/A                 N/A               N/A
(includes admbiittive
apportto Inter-Agency
Cow Commission HQ and
Region Offies)
if Amms PPF  fi  wiU bc memuw
kW Dow so mIx bdd pwddae. Reeslair w~iU be Fwwe as prjctm -muripmmu sam evalamle sea apprevud.
j/ Nibs d asnile_ g s.y Is usaI . Coayeit  bihlin, hpprpWs. Award to lb base upnse evaad prepsla subrnitted by organiztiorw. Ccwrca mlotisted  basis of appeve tadgt.
d/ Wadifid Spwi Fimeal Adviso to msst In bldn ppsslon  ed evsaltlcu.



Schedule B
Impleme tation Plan
Component                                          Beneficiaries            Start     Completion
1. Participation by stakeholders                  IAC - Federal and         Jun,96    Dec,98
regional commissions,
Local Supervisory
Committees,
MOE, MFE, MOL,
Trade Unions,
Local Goverments,
Association of Mining
Cities, Independent Coal
Companies,
CBOs,
NGOs,
FES
2. Social assessment                               IAC, Federal and regional  May, 96   Dec,98
commissions, Local
Supervisory Committees,
MOE, FES
CBOs,
NGOs
Goscomstat
3. Socio-impact monitoring                        IAC, MOE, MOF, FES,    Jun,96    Dec,98
Goscomstat,
Local Goverments,
CBOs, NGOs
4. Implementation of social safety net guidelines  IAC, MOE, MFE, FES,      Jun,96    Dec,98
Local Goverments
5. Management of state financing for coal industry  IAC, MOE, MOF,          Aug,96    Dec,98
restructring                                      MFE, Goscomstat,
Treasuries
6. Special purpose audits of state financing for the  IAC, MOE,             Jun,96    Dec,98
coal sector                                       MOF,Goscomstat
7. Preparation of business plans                  Coal Companies, IAC,      Oct,96    Dec,98
MOE, MFE
8. Management' financial training                 Coal Companies, IAC,      Dec,96    Jun,98
MOE, MFE,MOF
9. Technical assistance on trust management       Coal Companies, IAC,      Jun,96    Dec,98
MOE, MFE,GKI
10. Encouraging investment in the Russian coal    IAC, MOE, MOF, MFE,    Jan,97    Dec,98
industry                                          Coal Companies           .
11. Technical assistance on mine closure proposals    IAC, MOE, COB, MFE,    Sep,96    Dec,98
Coal
Companies, RosUgol
12. Managing environmental rehabilitation         Local Governments,       Jan,97    Dec,98
MEnv,MOE,MFE
13. Project procurement and management advisory   PPUIPIU                   Jun,96    Jun,97
services for the PPUIPIU
CBO    Community Baeed Organkatlon             MFE    Minbtry of Fuel and Energy
COB    State Conmmftte on Bankruptcy           MOE    Minitry of Economy
FES    Federal Enploynmnt Servioes             MOF    MInitry of Finance
GKI    State Property Committo                 PIU    Project implermntation Unit
MEPNR  Milntry of Environmental Protection     PPU    Project Preparation Uni
and Natural Resources



Schedule C
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
Objectives                        Process Indicators                                   Output Indicators                       Impact Indicators
1. Particpation by stakeholdes
M eed  nprovanient hI arness by the cod
Inustry and the publo of the acvIfes canled ouw
the asistance of the World S   an, the conbt to
the ooel sector  form pla. and the ulppod
Prov  support fr                                                                                                                 tm ents avabble to mine vmrm
PIU office In Moscow se up with adequate
staffing support and basic communiction
IAC Agree requirements for IAC support (through PIU)     facilKies
Assistance In setting up regional offIkes and supervis 7 regional offices set up, support In organdzton
committees at the local level                        of work of lcal supervisosy committees
Local govemment                                                      Meetings of City Mayors held every 6 months,
Assistance with arrangements for Coal City Mayors meetngs  funded thraugh the loan
Assistance with publicity for munlcipal reforms
Trade unions Assistance with preparation of trade union publicity material    nessaary Items of puibicty materlal prepared
Assistance with legal counsing available to miners
Federal govemment Assistance wKh negotiation training                training courses
Assistance with labor training                      training courses
Assistance with exposure to Intemational experience  courses abroad
Independent coal companies Discuss the requirements for support for communications
between coal companies
NGOs Assistance with the preparation of monthly loan Implementation
reports                                              Monthly loan implementation reports prepared
Assistance with road shows to publicize support servkes
available                                            10 road shows completed
Assistance with media-based public education program
Subscription to regoinal newspaper clipping services  10 clipping services subscription inIKlated



Schedule C
Objectives                        Process Indicators                                     Output Indicators                        Impact Indicators
2 Social assessment                                                                                                               Establishment of a program which is more responsive
Broaden the reglonal coverage of the scial assessment Complete additional household  surveys In he needs of the indhduals and organizatons affected
activities undertaken prior to March 1996             settlements in Tula                      by restructuring.
Analyzing pattems of adjustment to coal reform        Complete 2 longitudinal study reports
Analyzing changes in the family budget                Complete family budget report
Complete thematic reports on coordination a
key social issues with goverment social policy,
use of nor- budget funds, creation of map,
geographical mobility, the disabled and lum
Thematic studies                                      sum redundancy payments
Half a year reports on agreed indicators
Ensunrig that lhe changw Impementd wih the
asistance of the SECAL conform with the reqiik
on social impcts, partoulrly as regards a fexil
Assistance with measuring of social and economic changes                                       demrand driven approach to restrctuing and g
in coal mining regions                                                                         onership through the pubic parciption
3. Social hnpact monKoring        Assistance wKh measuring the Impacts on miners, their families Monthly and quarterly reports on at  ast 1
and mining communffies of coal sector restructuring,  agreed indicators
Monitoring living standards in coal settlenents       Half a year report on the standard form
4. knplemntatImn of social safety                                                                                                 Establishment of a cost-effectie social safety systm
guidelines                        Support to the munlipal management for the Social Assets                                       the community Wl  talbred to the needs of indMdua
Operation and Maintenance program.                    Design of CommunRy Support Programs      who are vulnerable or at risk
Develop a Project Operation Manual
Design and deery of training programs fo
municipal emplyes in coal towns
Assistance with the Community Support and Diversification DefinKion completed of the package needed
Programs                                              create a Community Diversification Program
DefinRion completed of suitable disbu
arrangements and criteria
Development completed of opering guidlne



Schedule C
Objectives                        Process Indicators                                   Output Indicators                        Impact Indicators
By end 1 996:
5. Management of stae financing for                                                    Report on a systematic analyis of the edsind  Measuable improveent hi the effincy of alFcOc
coal Indusry resructuring         Assistance In improving the management of State financing fa mechanism for Government support of the coa and monitoing o stat. support fundg to the OD
coal Idustry financing                               industry                                 incbatry
Completion of the design of a sd of measur
to Implement a mechanism of managing sae
support funds
Develpment of proposals for Improveffnt o
the reporting system concerning targeted use o
state suport to the coal sector
Completion of draft sample agreements fc
using federal budget funds.
Report on research on the relationship
the evel of budget allations and restucturin
results
Completion of a computer system for dab
support management by end 1997
Monitoring the allocatIon and distributon system
of state support
Completion of subsidy compliance audits on
coal sector subsidy beneficiarkis by 31 Octobe
1996.
6 Special purpose audits of budget                                                     Regular audits of coal companies seleed by IA
support for the coal sector                                                                                                    Establishment of a more transparent and monitorabl
Appointment of an auditor to carry out subsidy compliance                                    reporting system on the disbursement of state suppo
audits                                                                                       funds, leading to greater responsibility and accountabilty
7. Preparation of business plans                                                       Complete preparation of business plans for 1  Etablishment of Improved  systems of busi_
Specification of an agreed business plan framework   15 coal companies by end 1998.          planning and strategic vel decision maldng
To build the capacity of coal companies Completion of pilot projects to develop business plans for 4 Assistance for preparation of business plans for
to prepare business plans         regional coal companies.                             coal companies
S. Corrmnercial mnanagemnent I    Develop training courses for General Directors       Deliver courses to at least 20 General Directors
Financial training
Develop training courses for Commercial Directors and Chief  Deliver courses to at least 20 Commercial
To improve the financial awareness and Accountants                                     Directors and Chief Accountants         Improved management sidis, leading to better analysi
skills of senior management in the coal                                                                                        of options, the development of moe effective buiness
companies                                                                                                                      strategies and thelr communkation to stakehokders
Develop overseas training programs                   Deliver seminars to 20 employees not included
in the above.



Schedule C
Objectives                        Process Indicators                                   Output Indicators                       Impact Indicators
Develop and agree training content and delivery schedule for   Complete dellvery of training courses for I s1 0
the courses                                          coal companies by end 1998.
Completion of pilot projects to deliver training courses for 4
regional coal companies.
9. Technical assistance on trust                                                       Complete draft trust managemrent contrad; Agreed trust management contrat for the tir  two coa
management                       Assistance by egal advisers                           explain to Government; modify as necessary   oompanks by July 1998
(1) To advise the Government on the
essential   components   of  trus                                                      Research among potential trust managen   Ust  of  potential  trust  managemrent  agent;
mnanagemnent contracts for the new                                                     agents; design of bidding and  evaluation recommendatins on revision of template contract;
regional coal companies          Assistance by trust management consultants            process;                                report on bidding process by September 1996.
(2) To devise a procedure for th                                                       Complee  draft of Invitation  to  Tender,
subsequent bidding process for such Assistance by legal advisers and trust management assistance in evaluating bids and negotlatig
trust management contracts        consultants, worldng together                        contracts                               Issue of Invtation to Tender by Septmber 1996
Award of 3-5 trust management contracts by Decenbe
10 Encouraging InvesTment In the
Russian coal Industry            Preliminary discussions and evaluation of Investment projects
The competon, wtin the timescale of the projet, o
agreements to finance 2-3 Imwetent projects w
To build the capacity of the regional coal                                             SeWction of investment projects suitable fo signrcant contributons from sources of finance externa
companies to attract external Investment                                               external Investors                       tn coal Industry
Development of a suitable presentaton for selected projects
Assistance in developing a marketing strategy for Investment
prospects
Identification of potental Investors
Assistance In evaluating financing options
Assistance in negotiations with selected financial institutions



Schedule C
Objectives                        Process Indicators                                    Output Indicators                        Impact Indicators
By end 1996:
11. Technical assistance on nine                                                        Competion of a new version of 'The Mai Establishment  of  Improved   procedures   and
closure proposals                                                                       Principles of Closirng.                  implementation ab s for phycal mie cosures.
Complekn of suggestions on the preparion of
To  provide  assistanee  with  th                                                       business plans by coal enterprises, based on
development and economic evaluation                                                     well-determined decisions for conskieringnrres
of proposed mine closure plans    Review of current procedures for preparing mine closure plans to be non-viable.
Completion of methodlcal recommendatins f
Development of improved mine closure procedures       the project (Feasibility Studies) for mine closing.
Assistance wilth implementation of new mine closure
procedures
Completion of computer system to manage the
Assistance in developing the capability for an Independen process of closing of non-viable mines by en
review of mine closure proposals                      1997.
Monitoring of mine closings process
12. Managing environmental
rehabilItation
Proposals for a framework In which the
To develop mechanisms for managing                                                      respornibility for identifying, developing and
the  rehabilittion  of  environmental                                                   managing the rehabilitation projecbt is     measurable increase In errrnnwt  mrhbaon
damage linked to coal mining      Vtists to principal coal basins                       to lcal authorltes,                      actiiy
Review of data on current or potential future envtronmenta Recommendations for fundig  r_ n
liablities                                            work
Develop priorties for environmental rehabtation and  and
reclamation
Estimate the costs of a medium term program of work



Schedule C
Objectives                         Process Indicators                                     Output Indicators                        Impact Indicators
13. Project procurement and
management advisory services for
the PPU/PIU
To assist the PPU/PIU in securing
technical   assistance    on   the
procurement  and  management  of The consultant will work closely with the PPU/PIU  on all                                         The  appointment of consuKants  to  assist
consuKtants:                       aspects of the project                                 Assistance with preparation of:          procurement and project management
Short-term (for a period of 12 weeks)                                                                             Terms of referenc
Long-term (for a period of one year)                                                                                Letter of invitation
Evaluation criteri
negotiations and contract award



SCHEDULE D
INDICATIVE SUPERVISION PLAN
Anticipated Skills Required    Staf
Approximate Dates                  Activity                                                Weeks
July 1996             Project launch; review overall project  Task Manager                     10
implementation progress, including    Social Specialist
procurement of goods and services, and    Procurement Specialist
consultant mobilization; project cost and   Financial Specialist
financing plan; progress of technical
assistance and training program
August 1996 -         Review bidding documents; monitor      Task Manager                      12
December 1996         mobilization and performance of        Procurement Specialist
consultants
January 1997          Supervision mission; review over project  Task Manger                     9
implementation progress               Procurement Specialist
Social Specialist
February 1997 - June    Review bidding document; monitor     Task Manager                      12
1997                  mobilization and performance of        Procurement Specialist
consultants
July 1997             Supervision mission; review over project  Task Manager                    9
implementation progress               Procurement Specialist
Social Specialist
August 1997 -         Review bidding documents; monitor      Task Manager                      8
December 1997         mobilization and performance of        Procurement Specialist
consultants
January 1998          Supervision mission; review over project  Task Manager                    9
implementation progress               Procurement Specialist
Social Specialist
February 1998 - June    Review bidding documents; monitor    Task Manager                      10
1998                  mobilization and performance of        Procurement Specialist
consultants
July 1998             Supervision mission; review over project  Task Manager                    9
implementation progress               Procurement Specialist
Social Specialist
August 1998 -         Review bidding document; monitor       Task Manager                       8
December 1998         mobilization and performance of        Procurement Specialist
consultants
July 1999             Supervision mission; review over project  Task Manager                    9
implementation progress               Procurement Specialist
Social Specialist
August 1999 -         Review bidding document; monitor       Task Manager                       8
December 1999         mobilization and performance of        Procurement Specialist
consultants






MAP SECTION






18RD 28005
RUSSIAN  FEDERATION                                                                                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
COAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                                                                  Chukch               -d-
COAL, POWER, AND STEEL INDUSTRIES                                                                             Sea c
MAJOR COAL FLOWS GREATER TIHAN                  MAJOR coAL BASINS FOR COMMUNITY
ID M.LUON TONS _IRROI                    RARRWL TSUPPORT AND EMPLOYMENT PROGRAMS     . RAILROADL                                  .            .                                     c
MAJOR COAI MINES                                                                   H   SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES
ADMINISTRATIVE CENTERS FOR                                                                           E'.k.nM
BROWH N COAL                             R   COMMUNTrY SUPPORT AND EMPLOYMENT   *   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                B    _       B.E--RkISIy
HARD COAL                                    FROGRAMSR1ER                                                                                            <A &E
COAL BASIN                    --  M R~~~~~OADS
UNITED   N o r _ e g i G n  S e C   COAL BASIN,  -. M rOADS                            ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARES
UNITED                     NLo rWe9iO          000Se                            BROWN COAL                                    OTHER FEDERAL ROADSBRI2LU
KINGDOM                                                                         HRCOLSELECTED SECONDARY ROADSTOLS,A  RREULCBUDRE
I-IARID COAL                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUTONOMOUS OBLAST, OLTRUG OR
KINGDOM  .IROWN COAL   .                             SIGNIFICANT PORTS                      REPUBLIC ROUND ARIES
STEEL TOWNS                                      LOCAL                               - INTERNATIONAL B0UNDARIES
S U                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COAL F,REU POWER PLANTS WITH INSTALLED  REGIONAL                                         E-v                 -A-
2er                                                                    CAPACITY OF I0 TD MEGAWATTS OR GREATER     9      NATIONAL                                               ^    EAL SLPFIHY
NORWAY               -                                                                                                                                     -
SWeDEN    O~                                           Se a r e a        r                          e            n            LOs EHV  -    . 
E_ERLUNDS  iE  !-- SS e a                                                                                                         L a  p t e                                                                            - .-
EHEQLANDS DEN-                        SW  E D E  N            r           (-S e a
\f UA                                                                .                                          -                     , .                           _i
GELA_                                       FINLAND            ';  ' dfl_-h                                          K a r a  S e a                                                 .-4-zs-_
! .1        a  It, IC- S  ea                       .j . _ .   ;/95  etAX
RUSSIAN                                                                                                     ._RIgRdM
dSFE         EUTONkAaIoMR
" POLAND          ,      LATUN.                             ,4 <.H _M*a.T
1 ~~~\        RHIADL~~~~IC                     CheeI-'                               ,0A   ',at AA0NI  -gOL/Okk 
<:~~~     ~~ L,                                   RWRWO '   dl      SykBpnkor                                                                                                                     (                            Nr LMIHrIS,
z       r       t U        (Bw;JNE~  *MOscOW                                                                                                                       -~'NLT, -                                                          n Lg  O O d-
0'UKRAI            g NEsO  t;\ 0              CFSyE ro -~ (4  0 'K  LN5W  -     \. T-                                 -BaR' ''ig,IH                                                                                                                iAPAN
N~~~~~ ~ 'ooslyL                                             N0      AL ny. '' /A 2',~f     - ;..                                                                                                 1gvsoos_'i
lUlL'   HP '-nn4 ^^K    '4N.zI,.~.y   MML$.Y.L                                                                                                    < T .                       -t        YR'Mk  4ts
ARA3 ~ ~ ~    ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      y'- :E  .H  I.                                                     -' ';1S                                                  'V,-AJA  TyURVEITA;'  lONG           00 40 60 30KIOEES/O
!jUNGARY                                                                                         -Z~~~~~~~~~ CRY&,LE-
4   L                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ctt~~~~~~~MgLIS~LQLN     
r>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                'k~~~LLI'  ''w  ISR%  d'OSYSRllY
UKRAIN.  E4YNON-TJR-1-AShkh  k 
N.~ ~~~~A AREI.J'"                                                AASANA                                                                                                
N         -             [                            5c-.                              AX                                              ,.,    V                                                  U  LOU50,--UTTYT MILS ,,""
SYR,ATWt,,GFIRANLJt  LtRB  c      /         -   -                                                         B.   '-.,.     r       L~~~~~~~~~~.......--S                                                                   JDPRl 
/  RAG                         DREKUTAN '                                                                 /D9                                                                                                     /  KOREA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T '
"j R-a-  'o -                                                                    A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N   Y









IMAGING
Report No:<-f    6865 RU
Type: MOP



