Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                                LOAN NUMBER 4059 RU
                           Loan Agreement
    (Coal Sector Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project)
                               between
                         RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                 and
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                           AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated June 28, 1996
                                                 LOAN NUMBER 4059 RU
                            LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1996, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B)   the Bank has received a letter dated May 22, 1996 from
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to achieve adjustment of the Borrower's coal sector
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment
to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the
Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and
      (C)   the Project will be carried out by the Borrower through
the Foundation for the Promotion of the Restructuring of the Coal
Industry (REFORMUGOL) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to REFORMUGOL the
proceeds of the Loan on a non-reimbursable basis as provided in this
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and REFORMUGOL;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and REFORMUGOL of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement; and
      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE II
                              The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to twenty five million dollars ($25,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus
LIBOR Total Spread.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
           (i)    "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
                  including the date of this Agreement to, but
                  excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring
                  thereafter, and after the initial period, each period
                  from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but
                  excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
          (ii)    "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
                  Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  3
         (iii)    "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period,
                  the London interbank offered rate for six-month
                  deposits in dollars for value the first day of such
                  Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial
                  Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date
                  occurring on or next preceding the first day of such
                  Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the
                  Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
          (iv)    "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
                  (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus
                  (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
                  Interest Period, below (or above) the London inter-
                  bank offered rates, or other reference rates, for
                  six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's out-
                  standing borrowings or portions thereof allocated by
                  the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions
                  thereof made by it that include the Loan; as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
                  a percentage per annum.
      (c)   The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for Interest Period, promptly upon the determination
thereof.
      (d)   Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable
to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the
notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period
of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not
apply to the Loan.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15  and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE III
                       Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall act through
REFORMUGOL and cause REFORMUGOL to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of REFORMUGOL
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable REFORMUGOL to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   For the purpose of the Project, the Borrower shall make
available to REFORMUGOL the proceeds of the Loan under an arrangement
on a non-reimbursable basis.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09
Page  4
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by REFORMUGOL
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                  with sound accounting practices, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures are retained until at least one year
                  after the Bank has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made; and
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                  graph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six (6) months after the
                  end of each such year the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
                  the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including
                  a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
                  the statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their preparation, can
                  be relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
                  and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as
                  the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
                              ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   REFORMUGOL shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
      (b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that REFORMUGOL will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement;
      (c)   the Charter of REFORMUGOL shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the ability of REFORMUGOL to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement;
Page  5
      (d)   an authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action
for the dissolution or disestablishment of REFORMUGOL or for the
suspension of its operations; and
      (e)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur in respect of an obligation so as to affect
materially and adversely the execution of the Project and shall
continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                             ARTICLE VI
                     Effective Date, Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that
the director general of REFORMUGOL has been employed with qualifications
and experience acceptable to the Bank.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank,
namely that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by REFORMUGOL and is legally binding upon REFORMUGOL in accordance with
its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VII
              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or any Deputy Minister of
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Ilyinka Street 9
            103009 Moscow
            Russian Federation
                                         Telex:
                                         112008
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:               Telex:
Page  6
                  INTBAFRAD              197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.       248423 (RCA),
                                          64l45 (WUI) or
                                          82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                  By /s/ Yakov Urinson
                                          Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                            Europe and Central Asia
                             SCHEDULE 1
               Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated           % of
                              (Expressed          Expenditures
     Category                  in Dollars)       to be Financed
(1) Computers, office             600,000        100% of foreign
    equipment and                                expenditures, 100%
    furniture                                    of local expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost)
                                                 and 83% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 for other items
                                                 procured locally
(2) Consultant's               14,420,000        100%
    services and training
(3) Operating cost of           2,980,000        100%
    REFORMUGOL
(4) Pilot activities            5,000,000         83%
    under Part B.3
    of the Project
(5) Unallocated                 2,000,000
                                _________
         TOTAL                 25,000,000
                               ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  7
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   The term "operating cost of REFORMUGOL" means expendi-
tures on account of the Project of REFORMUGOL for salaries, utility
services, office supplies and rental of premises for a twelve month
period following the date of this Agreement as set forth in the
budget of REFORMUGOL acceptable to the Bank.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for (a) expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) expenditures to
be financed out of the proceeds of the loan allocated to Category
(4) unless the Borrower has submitted to the Bank the criteria
applicable to the selection of the activities to be carried out
under Part B.3 of the Project and the proposed implementation
arrangements, both acceptable to the Bank.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures,
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower, for (a) goods and services of consulting firms
under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (b) services
of individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000
equivalent.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the management
of the restructuring process of the coal sector; and (ii) fill critical
skill gaps and build capacity in a number of key areas, which are
essential to the effective implementation of the Program.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Participatory Activities
1.    Provision of consultant services, training and computer and
office equipment for: (i) the Borrower's efforts to improve industrial
relations and social partnership in the coal sector; (ii) the Inter
Agency Commission for Socio-Economic Problems of the Coal Mining
Regions (IAC) and regional coal commissions; (iii) trade unions; (iv)
local governments of coal regions; (v) the Association of Mining
Cities; and (vi) independent coal companies and their association.
2.    Public relations campaigns to help broaden ownership of reform
objectives.
Part B:     Social Programs
1.    Provision of consultant services, training and computer equipment
for the improvement of the system for social protection of coal
industry employees, social asset operation and maintenance, and design
of community support and employment programs in the Kuzbass, Eastern
Donbass, Pechora , Moscow and Kisel coal basins.
2.    Provision of consultant services, training and computer equipment
for the establishment and implementation of a sytem for continuous
social assessment and social impact monitoring in coal mining regions.
3.    Implementation of pilot activities of community support and
employment programs in the Kuzbass, Eastern Donbass, Pechora, Moscow
Page  8
and Kisel coal basins.
Part C:     Improvement of Subsidy Management
      Provision of consultant services, training and computer equipment
needed for the development of efficient procedures to allocate and
distribute state support to recipients and control its application,
development of model agreements between primary and final recipients
of state support, improvement of the reporting system concerning
targeted use of state support to the coal sector, monitoring of the
operation of the mechanisms of state financing for coal sector
restructuring and its related impact; and arrangements for independent
audits of recipients of state support in accordance with international
auditing standards.
Part D:     Commercialization and Demonopolization of Coal Companies
      Provision of consultant services and training for (i) the pre-
paration of business plans of coal companies, (ii) development of a
framework for trust management of mining companies, including prepara-
tion of a model agreement, (iii) the bidding process to select the
trust managers, (iv) development of measures aimed at attracting
investments in the coal sector, and (v) provision of management and
financial training.
Part E:     Environmental Management
      Provision of consultant services and training to strengthen the
capacity needed for environmental management, including legal and
financial aspects, to remediate the adverse impacts of coal mines
included in the restructuring program.
Part F:     Mine Closures
      Provision of consultant services for legal, organizational and
informational support for the development of procedures for closure
of unprofitable mines.
Part G:     Support to REFORMUGOL
1.       Provision of consultant services, training and computer and
office equipment to strengthen the capacity of REFORMUGOL.
2.    Provision of computer and office equipment to assist in the
establishment of about five regional coal commissions of the Borrower.
                                * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
                             SCHEDULE 3
                        Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (Expressed in dollars)
On each June 15 and December 15
      beginning , December 15, 2001
      through   December 15, 2012                1,040,000
On June 15, 2013                                 1,080,000
                             SCHEDULE 4
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
Page  9
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of $250,000
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                 shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
                 the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
                 shall specify.
            (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                 other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                 this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
                 of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                 each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                 Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
                 into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                 shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                 said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                 out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
Page  10
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such out-
standing amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
