Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                                LOAN NUMBER 4059 RU
                          Project Agreement
    (Coal Sector Restructuring Implementation Assistance Project)
                               between
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                           AND DEVELOPMENT
                                 and
         FOUNDATION FOR THE PROMOTION OF THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE
                             COAL INDUSTRY
                         Dated June 28, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4059 RU
                          PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FOUNDATION FOR THE
RESTRUCTURING OF THE COAL INDUSTRY (REFORMUGOL).
      WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Russian Federation (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to twenty five
million dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that REFORMUGOL agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS REFORMUGOL, in consideration of the Bank entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE II
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01.  REFORMUGOL declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
Page  2
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. REFORMUGOL shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
      Section 2.04. (a) REFORMUGOL shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   REFORMUGOL shall promptly inform the Bank of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the
performance by REFORMUGOL of its obligations under this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE III
               Management and Operations of REFORMUGOL
      Section 3.01. REFORMUGOL shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative and financial
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. REFORMUGOL shall at all times operate and maintain
its equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound financial and administrative practices.
      Section 3.03. REFORMUGOL shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) REFORMUGOL shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
      (b)   REFORMUGOL shall:
            (i)   have its records and accounts, including separate
                  records and accounts in respect of the Project, and
                  financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
                  income and expenses and related statements) for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than six (6) months after the end of
                  each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
                  statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
                  report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
                  and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records, accounts and financial statements as
Page  3
                  well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from
                  time to time reasonably request.
                              ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination;
                     Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of REFORMUGOL thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify REFORMUGOL thereof.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VI
                      Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when
it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be
given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at
such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to
the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:               Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD              197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.       248423 (RCA),
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                          82987 (FTCC)
      For REFORMUGOL:
            Foundation for the Promotion of
              the Restructuring of the Coal Industry
            Novvy Arbat, 15
            121910 Moscow
            Russian Federation
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of REFORMUGOL may be taken or executed by the Director
General or such other person or persons as the Director General shall
designate in writing, and REFORMUGOL shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but
one instrument.
Page  4
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                            Europe and Central Asia
                  FOUNDATION FOR THE PROMOTION OF THE
                    RESTRUCTURING OF THE COAL INDUSTRY
                  By /s/ Yakov Urinson
                                          Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE 1
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable.
Part B:      Procurement Procedures
1.    International Shopping
      Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
Part C:       Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to
the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions
of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to the first two contracts for goods procured in
accordance with the provisions of Part B.1 of this Schedule, the
Page  5
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review
shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
