Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24338
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-34250)
ONA
CREDIT'
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$72 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN
EMERGENCY POWER SUPPLY PROJECT
JUNE 19, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Shilling
KSh 1.00 = US$ .01
US$ 1.00 = 78.00
FISCAL YEAR
July I to  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AP            =             Action Plan for KPLC and Sector Restructuring
EECC          =             Emergency Electricity Coordinating Committee
EPTT          =             Emergency Power Technical Team
FMR           =             Financial management Review
FY                          F Fiscal Year
GoK                         G Government of Kenya
GWh           =             Gigawatt
ICB           =             International Competitive Bidding
IPP           =             Independent Power Producers
KenGen=              Kenya Electricity Generating Company
KPLC          =             Kenya Power and Lighting Company
LIB           =             Limited International Bidding
MoE           =             Ministry of Energy
MW            =             Megawatt
OMR           =             Organization and management Restructuring
PPLAF         =             Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Fund
RFP           =             Request for Proposals
RPS           =             Restructuring and Pre-Privatization Study
RTF           =             Restructuring Task Force
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Managerllirector:   Makhtar Diop
Sector Manager/Director:  Ananda Covindassamy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Joel Maweni



KENYA
Emergency Power Supply Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               7
6. Sustainability                                                                   9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 12
9. Partner Comments                                                                13
10. Additional Information                                                         17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              25



Project ID: P071196                                     Project Name: KE Emergency energy credit
Team Leader: Joel J. Maweni                             TL Unit: AFTEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: June 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: KE Emergency energy credit                   L/C/TFNumber: IDA-34250
Country/Department: KENYA                                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: GY - Other Fuels
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   06/13/2000                            Effective: 11/08/2000
Appraisal:  08/15/2000                              MTR:
Approval:  10/26/2000                            Closing: 12/31/2001         12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOK/OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
Other Partners: MINISTRY OF ENERGY/KENGEN/KPLC
STAFF                Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                      Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager:     Makhtar Diop                            Harold E. Wackman
Sector Manager:      M. Ananda Covindassamy                  Arn P. Sanghvi (Acting)
Team Leader at ICR:  Joel J. Maweni                          Joel J. Maweni
ICR Primary Author:  Josphat 0. Sasia
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=-Unsatisfactory, HL-=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1  The objective of the project was to assist the Government in implementing emergency measures to
address a power supply crisis which had crippled economic activities and hindered the delivery of social
services. To achieve this, the project financed: (i) the Government's purchases of power and associated fuel
from short-term independent power producers (IPPs) and fuel suppliers respectively for the projected
period of die power supply crisis; and (ii) working capital requirements for fuel purchases for the Kenya



Electricity Generating Company (KenGen) thermal plants.
3.1.2  In 1999 and 2000 Kenya experienced serious drought conditions. The drought hit hardest during
the March-May 2000 rain season, when with the exception of Western and Nyanza provinces which
received significant amounts of rainfall, the rest of the country received between 30 and 50 percent of the
long-term average precipitation. By mid-2000 the impact of the droughts on the economy had reached
devastating proportions, and in particular had caused serious shortages of water, substantial decreases in
crop production, livestock losses, and acute power shortages. In May 2000, the Government of Kenya
(GoK) issued a paper entitled: "Kenya Government Appeal for Local and International Assistance to
Combat the Current Drought Stress." which described these impacts and summarized the financial
requirements to implement a proposed recovery plan. The GoK also prepared a separate plan for
addressing the power crisis. In June 2000, the GoK requested Bank support for implementation of its
drought recovery plans.
3.1.3. In response the Bank reviewed its portfolio and amended the ongoing Arid Lands Resources
Management Project (Cr. 2797-KE) to allow for establishment and maintenance of a Drought Contingency
Fund which was to be used for financing immediate drought mitigation interventions such as emergency
livestock offtake, food for work programs, support to schools, and repairs and maintenance of water
supplies. With regard to power it was noted that production had fallen by about one third of the country's
requirements. As a result an extensive load shedding program had been introduced such that domestic
consumers were receiving power supply for about 15 hours/day and industrial consumers for eight hours on
alternate days. The economic costs of unrnet demand was estimated at US$400-630 million for the nine
months prior to the onset of the next long rains in April 2000. This loss was equivalent to about 3.8-6.5
percent of GDP and would have resulted in significant increases in poverty and unemployment. While the
negative economic consequences of power shortages were substantial, the Bank also recognized that the
power crisis was as much a product of the drought as it was of the institutional and management
weaknesses which had led to delayed thenral power investment since the rnid-1990s. Further, it was also
understood that even without the thermal investment, had the operations of the transmission and
distribution sector been conducted efficiently, the power sector would have been able to finance the action
plan without recourse to external support.
3.1.4  The Bank faced three options in its choice of a response. First, it could have decided not to
support the Govermnent action plan for addressing the power crisis on the grounds that the crisis was not
entirely caused by a natural disaster. A second option would have been for the Bank to provide emergency
support without a requirement for institutional and policy reforms as part of the project in accordance with
the Bank's normal practice for emergency operations. The third option was for the Bank to assist Kenya in
implementing measures to combat the crisis while requiring the GoK to accelerate institutional and policy
reforms that would place the sector on a sound footing in the medium-to-long term The option of not
assisting the country was ruled out because the negative economic impacts were severe. The last Bank
Group's CAS presented to the Board in September 1998 had been aimed at reducing poverty through
sustainable broad-based growth. It had focused on economic governance, removal of systemic bottlenecks
to economic growth, delivery of services and poverty reduction, such as the malfunctioning of public
institutions, poor public expenditure management, and portfolio management. In 1998/99 and 1999/2000,
the GoK had recorded successes in fiscal and financial stabilization and had renewed its focus on civil
service reforms, improved public expenditure management, combating corruption, public sector reform and
privatization. These measures provided a good basis for improved economic growth rates in 2001-2003.
However, as noted earlier, these prospects for growth were endangered by the severe drought. In
particular, the power shortages emerged as a major constraint to economic growth. In order to minimize
the reduction in Kenya's growth prospects, it was therefore essential for the country to have adequate
-2-



supply of electricity for its key sectors of production.
3.1.5 Based on these considerations the Bank decided to assist the Government in implementing its
program for restoring power supplies to normal levels. A review of the ongoing Energy Sector Reform and
Power Development Project (Cr.2966-KE) indicated that the credit had become substantially fully
committed. It was therefore decided to prepare a stand alone operation, on an emergency basis, to help
co-finance the GoK's plan for addressing the crisis. Only a small amount was to be used from the Energy
Sector Reform and Power Development Credit to finance consultants services for preparation of the
proposed emergency power project. However, the recognition that institutional and management
weaknesses had played a part in causing the crisis and made an intemal solution infeasible, meant that
urgent attention needed to be given to these issues. Addressing these institutional and management
weaknesses as part of the Bank intervention was considered an effective way of sensitizing senior
government officials on the need for speedier refonns. Hence, the decision was made to predicate the
emergency operation on the GoK taking specific institutional and policy reforns. This was an exceptional
approach for an emergency operation based on an exceptional situation. An Action Plan (AP) was to be
prepared for restructuring of KPLC in the short-term and of the sector in the medium-to-long term. The
short-term components of the AP were to improve the organization, management and staffing of KPLC so
as to reduce its operating costs, and to improve its technical and managerial competencies for
implementation of the sector investment programs, poor implementation of which had substantially
contributed to the current power crisis. It comprised an Organization and Management Review (OMR) and
a Financial Management review (FMR). The second component--a restructuring and pre-privatization
study (RPS)-- was intended to lead to the fast-tracking of the planned restructuring and privatization of
KPLC so as to create an efficient transmission and distribution business--a financially strong power sector
better able to withstand future droughts without recourse to government subsidies.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not Applicable
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1  The projects components were: (i) the Govermnent's purchases of power and associated fuel from
short-term independent power producers and fuel suppliers respectively for the projected period of the
power supply crisis; and (ii) working capital requirements for fuel purchases for KenGen's existing thernal
plants arising from the drought-induced changes in generation mix between hydro and thermal sources and
from reduced revenues caused by load-shedding. At the time of project preparation, power purchases were
expected to cost US$ 30 million and fuel purchases US$ 42 million respectively.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not Applicable
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1 The rating for quality at entry is satisfactory. The Borrower and the Bank agreed on innovative
contractual, financing, and implementation arrangements for the project. The specific implementation
arrangements were as follows:
(i) An Emergency Electricity Coordinating Committee (EECC) comprising top managers in the GoK
was established and mandated to address policy issues and to resolve any bottlenecks that ensued
during the preparation and implementation phases of the project. The EECC was co-chaired by the
- 3 -



Minister for Finance and the Head of Public Service and Secretary to the Cabinet.
(ii) An Emergency Power Technical Team (EPTT) was set-up to handle the day-to-day project
management matters including, procurement and processing of payments. The EPTT was headed by
an eminent private sector Kenyan with a successful track record in management. The head of the
EPTT agreed to serve without remuneration.
(iii) All revenues (net of T&D costs and bad debts provisions) collected by KPLC from sales of energy
supplied by the. emergency power producers were deposited in an Escrow Account established for the
purpose and used for co-financing the power purchase and fuel supply contracts together with the IDA
Credit.
3.5.2 The project preparation and implementation anrangements worked extremely well by facilitating
speedy decisions on procurement and payments to contractors and suppliers. Thus, 75 MW out of the total
planned capacity of 105 MW had already been installed and connected to the grid by October 26, 2000
when the Credit was approved by the Board. In addition the placing of the implementation structures
outside normal government channels and involving a key private sector head of the EPTT fostered an
environment of accountability and transparency. The whole set-up including the Escrow account
mechanism provided confidence to the private sector to bid for the project and for selected bidders to enter
into contracts without requiring government guarantees. It is further worth noting that because of the high
degree of commitment to the project on both the Bank and Government side, the project's legal agreements
were signed on the day following Board approval (October 27, 2000), and the credit became effective
within 11 days (November 8, 2000).
3.5.3  As stated in para. 3.1.5 above the project design also included an Action Plan for restructuring of
KPLC in the short-term and of the entire sector in the medium term. The AP was conceived as part of the
mitigation measures to avoid repeat disasters and not as a separate project objective. The objectives of the
AP were therefore clear and its design was consistent with the objectives. The Government issued a Public
Statement on October 19, 2000 in which it affirmed its intention to implement the AP. However, although
there was a formal Government comrmitment to implement the AP, the Bank recognized at the design stage
that there were risks regarding its full implementation. Thus, although the outcome of the short-term
components (OMR and FMR) of the'AP turned out to be unsatisfactory (paras. 4.4.4-4.2.8), its design had
been based on reasonable assumptions and expectations regarding its implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1  The outcome of the project was satisfactory. However, the outcome of the implementation of
measures to mitigate against future power crises was unsatisfactory. The unsatisfactory implementation of
the AP does not affect the outcome rating for this project as implementation of the AP was not an objective
of the project (paras. 3.3.1 and 3.5.3). The objective of the project was to mobilize short-term power
supply in order to address critical power shortages and restore supplies to normal or near-normal levels.
This was to be done through financing of power and fuel purchases from contractors and suppliers
respectively. The project achieved its objective of helping to restore power supplies through the installation
within five months of 99 MW. As a result, by January 2001, the GoK was able to discontinue load
shedding. The GoK and the business community acknowledge that without the emergency power support,
economic activities would have been severely curtailed, the vibrant informal sector which provides
significant employment opportunities would have virtually collapsed and poverty would have increased to
-4 -



much higher levels.
4.1.2  As explained in para.3.5.3, the AP was conceived as part of the mitigation measures against repeat
disasters and not as an objective per se. It was not part of the project description, but was included in the
Development Credit Agreement as an effectiveness condition so that the Govemment could implement it
within the life of the project in order to create conditions for sustainability of sector operations in the
medium-to-long term. The OMR and FMR components of the AP were financed under the Energy Sector
Reform and Power Development Credit while the RPS is being financed by the Public Private
Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF). The AP was intended to contribute towards making the sector
operations sustainable rather than those of the project which were for a short duration. Although the
unsatisfactory implementation of the AP (paras. 4.2.4-4.2.8) does not affect the outcome of this particular
project, it does cause serious concem about the sustainability of sector operations in the medium-long term,
in the absence of remedial measures. Hence, the unsatisfactory implementation of the AP is reflected in the
sustainability rating [unlikely] as described in para. 6.1.1.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  To achieve the objective of reducing power shortages the Govermment was to purchase power and
associated fuel from short-term IPPs and fuel suppliers respectively for the projected period of the power.
supply crisis. It was also to provide KenGen with incremental working capital to enable it to increase its
thermal power production in response to the drought. Table 1 below compares the planned capacity that
was to be installed by IPPs, the related outputs, sales, and costs to the actual outcomes.
4.2.2 About 95% (99 MW) of the generation capacity planned for installation by the private sector were
installed by mid November 2000. The 6 MW shortfall arose from one contractor who was unable to
deliver the full contracted 30 MW capacity. The units generated from the IPP plants were about 14%
below estimates due to the shortfall in generation capacity and the higher than expected short rains in
January 2001 which enabled KenGen to generate more power from hydro sources. The latter, also partially
explains KenGen's lower incremental working capital requirements (US$8 million instead of US$25
million). The other reason for KenGen's lower utilization of its credit allocation was the delayed granting
of tax exemption for fuel purchases by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. For IPPs the lower fuel costs
are attributed to the significant reduction in intemational oil prices in early 2001 and the high degree of
market competition.
Table 1: Project Outputs for Components
Planned         Actual        Variance
Over/(Under)
Production Capacity (MW)                  105            99              (6)
Generation (GWh)                           682            587            (93)
Sales (GWh)                                556            478            (78)
Capacity Charges (US$ million)              35             31             (4)
Fuel Purchases (US$ million)                85             51            (34)
IPPs                                     60              43            (17)
KenGen                                  25              8             (17)
4.2.3 For the AP, Table 2 below summarizes the key outputs and compares the original planned dates for
their delivery to the actual/revised dates.



Table 2: Schedule for Implementation of the AP
Activity                                    Planned Completion  Actual/Revised
Date                Completion Date
Award of contract for the OMR               November 3, 2000    June 22, 2001
Award of Contract for the FMR                November 30, 2000  May 9, 2001
Commence Implementation of Privatization    August 7, 2001      outstanding
4.2.4 Table 2 shows considerable delays in the implementation of the AP. The speed of implementation
for the AP contrasts sharply with that of the physical components which is shown in Table 3 below. It is
worth noting that even those milestones achieved todate in implementing the AP were accomplished only
after the Credit had been suspended in April 2001.
Table 3: Implementation Schedule for Physical Components
Planned              Actual
RFP for IPPs advertised in local press   June 30, 2000      June 30, 2000
Evaluation of IPP Bids                    July 18, 2000     July 9, 2000
Contract negotiations with selected IPPs  August 7, 2000    July 31, 2000
Signature of power purchase agreements with  August 11, 2000  August 7, 2000
IPPsI 
4.2.5 It is clear that the Govermment was highly committed to implementing its program for reducing
power shortages, but was not equally committed to implementing the AP. About six months after the credit
became effective (April 2001), the Bank reached this conclusion and, on April 4, 2001, it suspended the
Government's right to make withdrawals from the Credit. The rationale for the suspension was that the AP
had been designed to provide the strategy for restructuring the power sector and preparing it for
privatization in order to improve the delivery of services in a cost effective and efficient manner; and that it
contained critical activities to address the management weaknesses that had contributed to the power
shortages. In approving the Credit the IDA Board had relied on the representations made by the GoK in the
AP and in the accompanying public statement that the objective of sustaining macro-economic performance
in the medium-long term would be achieved through implementation of the AP. Hence, the decision to
suspend disbursements when the GoK did not inplement the AP in a timely manner. For a resumption of
disbursements the Bank required the Government to restore momentum to the implementation of the AP by
reaching the following key milestones: (i) reducing the number of divisions and managers at KPLC's
corporate headquarters from 15 to 7 and appointing the managers, including four regional managers in a
competitive process; (ii) idenifyng the list of initial retrenchees and computing the associated costs; (iii)
concluding the consultants contract for the FMR; and (iii) issuing an RFP for the consultants services for
the RPS. On May 25, 2001 following achievement of these milestones the Bank lifted the suspension of
disbursements.
4.2.6 In implementing the OMR, KPLC reduced the number of divisions at headquarters from 15 to 7;
selected a management team comprising of 7 divisional heads and 4 regional managers; and prepared and
partially implemented a program for staff retrenchment. Although management positions were advertised
within Kenya, only one manager was selected from outside the company and a number of managers
rendered "redundant" by virtue of the reduction in the number of divisions were redeployed elsewhere
-6 -



within the company. The initial plan was to retrench about 2031 staff at a total cost of Ksh 2.0 billion. The
first group of about 231 staff left the company in July 2001 with funding from the project's escrow account
(US$ 3 miliion), after the Bank had agreed to amend the Development Credit Agreement to allow use of the
escrow account for this purpose. A further 800 left in March 2002, at a total cost of about US$9.6 million,
again with part of the residual funds left in the escrow account following completion of the project.
Funding to cover the balance of about 831 staff remaining to be re-trenched under the program has not yet
been secured[ KPLC is searching for alternative funding sources, including from cost cutting measures and
disposal of non-core assets.
4.2.7 Overall, the results of the OMR have not yielded significant cost savings although KPLC estimates
that, on completion, savings of about Ksh 1I.1 billion per annum would be achieved in FY2003/04 onwards
from the staff retrenchment program covering 2031 staff. Additional non-quantified benefits are expected
to result from productivity increases as the new organizational structure is fully implemented with a focus
on decentalization of management responsibilities and customer responsiveness. In the meantime, the
delayed completion of the retrenchment program has contributed to a plummeting of staff morale in KPLC;
hence the importance of urgently securing funding for the program.
4.2.8 The FMR did not yield new insights on how to improve KPLC's financial performance, but
validated previous assessments by KPLC and Bank staff. Nevertheless, its recommendations on improving
revenue collection, reducing nontechnical and technical losses and operating costs have been incorporated
in a draft financial recovery plan for KPLC.
4.2.9 The RPS is in progress with financing from the Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
(PPIAF). The extent to which the RPS will contribute to the creation of a more viable and efficient sector
will critically depend on the level of commitment of key policy makers within the Govemment. The
implementation of the emergency program demonstrated that Kenya has adequate human resources to
achieve monumental progress in this sector when commitment is present. The Bank plans to prepare a
sector strategy and policy note within FY2003 to assist the Government in pulling together the
recommendations of the RPS, a proposed national policy workshop and other initiatives in the petroleum
subsector into a coherent framework for implementation.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1  The project's impact on institutional development has been negligible (paras. 4.2.4 through 4.2.9).
It nevertheless, brought the structural and management problems of the sector into full view and helped to
initiate thinldng about a second generation of reforms and started the process to address them.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 The main factors outside the control of the Government and the implementing agency which
affected project implementation and outcomes were the response of the private sector, the weather and
intemational oil prices. While previous experience suggested limited private sector interest in the sector, in
-7 -



this case the response was strong. This was due to the implementation and financing arrangements which
minimized risks of nonpayment or delayed payments and the monthly auditing arrangements which were
designed to assure accountability and transparency. Second, the extent of both the short-term and long term
rains affected the project outcome. The unprecedented heavy short-term rains in January 2001 altered the
generation mix remarkably with more hydro power being generated, thus contributing to the end of power
rationing. Third, at the time of the project design, international crude oil prices were high, but had declined
significantly in early 2001. The lower fuel prices reduced the fuel costs and the prices of power as fuel
costs are pass-through costs to the consumers.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1  The factors under the control of the Government which affected the project imnplementation and
outcomes were the commitment to implement the AP, granting of tax exemptions on fuel purchases, and
processing of procurement actions and of payments to contractors and suppliers. As explained in Raras.
4.1.2 and 4.2.5 above, the absence of strong political will and commitment resulted in an unsatisfactory
implementation of the AP. On the other hand the strong commitment to the program for reducing power
shortages resulted in exemplary implementation. Bids received were evaluated and reports, submitted to
the Bank for review within record time - at most 3 days.
5.2.2 On the other hand, administrative bottlenecks within the government bureaucracy partly prevented
KenGen from fully utilizing its portion of the Credit proceeds. It took GOK about 5 months (from August
2000) to grant tax exemptions for fuel imports which led to expiry of fuel contracts before the contracted
volumes were delivered. Had the exemptions been granted on time, part of the load shedding could have
been avoided.
5.2.3 Delayed payments is one of the major problems facing Bank funded projects in Kenya in general.
For this project, processing of payments by EPTT was expeditious. This gave confidence to the fuel and
emergency power suppliers and minimized late payment fees and claims. The Escrow account was well
managed. By the end of the project, US$71 million had been collected from the power sales of which US$
54 million was deposited in the Escrow account and balance retained by KPLC to cover the transmission
and distribution costs, and bad debt provisions.
5.3. Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1  The EPTT and the Ministry of Energy had the capacity to implement the project. Processing of
procurement and payments was done expeditiously. Even while the Credit was under suspension, the
EPTT managed to meet the due payments out of the Escrow account to the satisfaction of the fuel and
power suppliers. The implementation of the AP would have been more successful had there been a similar
commitment.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1 Overall the total cost of the project was estimated at US$120.57 million of which US$72.00
million (SDR 55.1 million equivalent at negotiations) was IDA Credit and the balance of US$48.57 million
was to come from the Escrow account. About US$30 million of the IDA credit was to finance emergency
power generators, US$17 million was for associated fuel to fuel suppliers, and the balance of US$25
million was for the fuel cost requirements for KenGen's existing power plants. Actual project costs
amounted to US$82.82 million with US$54.32 million from the Credit, and US$31.5 million from the
Escrow account. The remaining undisbursed balance of US$16.60 million (net of exchange rate
fluctuations between the SDR and the US$) under the IDA credit will be cancelled. The total net revenue
- 8 -



collected from the sale of electricity after accounting for KPLC's transmission and distribution costs and
bad debts was about US$54.2 million. Thus, after meeting project costs and taking into account interest
earned on deposits, about US$23.0 million remained undisbursed in the escrow account at the end of the
project.
5.4.2  The collection performance of the power sales was much better than had been anticipated at the
time of project preparation. The costs of the project was much lower than projected primarily due to the
competition in the bidding process for contracts. The Development Credit Agreement was later amended to
allow GOK to use these funds for other needs in the power sub-sector. The GoK used the balance to settle
outstanding arrears by its Ministries a Departments to KPLC. KPLC in turn used the funds to reduce its
arrears to KenGen (US$13.4 million) and to finance its staff retrenchment program (US$9.6 million).
KenGen was thus able to partially close the financing gap on the Olkaria II Geothermal Plant which is
being implemented under the Energy Sector Reform and Power Development Project.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationaleforsustainabilityrating:
6.1.1  The project was intended to sustain macroeconomic performance during a period of drought by
enabling the Government to provide power to the economy. The AP was intended to improve the
operations of KPLC in the short term through organizational, management, staffing and financial reforms
and to support privatization of the sector in the medium-to-long term. It was meant to help improve the
sustainability of the sector's operations rather than that of the project. However, so far the benefits of the
OMR and FMR have been limited. The RPS which will provide a basis for the privatization process has
not yet been completed. KPLC is incurring high levels of financial losses and receivables, and faces
liquidity problems. Its financial performance problems in turn affect KenGen's ability to implement the
sector's generation investment program. Without additional measures being undertaken to strengthen the
operations of KPLC, perhaps through privatization/contract management, the sustainability of the power
sector operations has to be rated "Unlikely".
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1  As an emergency operation, measures to transit to regular operations were not built into the project
at design stage. However, the AP includes a restructuring and pre-privatization study which could provide
the basis for technical support to the Government for privatization of designated parts of the power sector.
In addition, two other activities could support the design of future operations in the sector. First, the
Government has requested the Bank for support in designing a rural electrification strategy. Second, in
FY2003, the Bank will support the Government in consolidating the results of the RPS, a planned national
workshop on energy policy and other recent studies in the format of a policy note for implementation.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1  The Bank's performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal is rated highly
satisfactory. The identification mission was upgraded to appraisal. The project components and objectives
as originally identified were realistic. There was Government comunitment to implement the project which
explains why the effectiveness of the Credit took only 11 days following Credit approval. It took four
months to prepare the project - all the contractual framework, project documents, processing all the
procurement tasks and taking the project to the Board. Approvals were given swiftly, in some cases, no
-9-



objections were given within 24 hours. Tight timetables were agreed upon with the Borrower and were
strictly followed. The Bank agreed to simplified procurement and disburserent arrangements without
compromising the underlying principles of these processes. For instance, public advertisement of a request
for proposals/bids, evaluation of bids by a special private sector-led team assisted by independent
consultants were followed, though in some cases, mandatory time lapses were compressed to accommodate
the emergency nature of the operation. To ensure that fuel deliveries to the emergency power plants took
place no later than the commissioning dates of these plants, Limited Intemational Bidding (LIB) procedures
were used to procure fuel requirements for the first 6 weeks while, in parallel, International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures were used for the balance of the fuel requirements. Documents were largely
submitted to the Bank electronically and teleconference meeting between GoK and Bank staff organized by
the Country Office to jointly review them. These arrangements worked extremely well.
7.1.2  Satisfactory preparation was maintained throughout, with continuous monitoring of the project
activities by the Country Office and Washington-based staff. The expenence demonstrates that given a
sound policy and administrative framework, and strong leadership, highly motivated and professional Bank
and Borrower staff can design practical and workable solutions to complex problems in a timely manner.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1  The Banl's perfornance in supervision is rated as satisfactory. The team that designed that project
saw it through implementation. The Washington-based and the Country Office staff worked well. The
flexibility in procurement, disbursement and financial management arrangements of the project ensured
faster decision making. For instance, large amounts (about 28%) of IDA Credit proceeds were disbursed
to the Special Accounts and IDA agreed to provide for retroactive financing of 200/o of the Credit amount
to finance expenditures incurred before Credit signing, but within 4 months of Board approval which
assisted in ensuring that upfront activities were undertaken without delay. To expedite processing of
replenishinent withdrawal applications and ensure speedy payments, IDA agreed on an exceptional basis, to
process replenishment applications, upon confirnation by the field-based Country Director of his receipt of
the original copy of the application. The Monthly Audit Reports helped in pointing out areas to focus on
and provided comfort to fuel suppliers and emnergency power producers. Due to intense supervision of the
project by both Country Office and Washington-based staff, noncompliance to agreements reached was
handled rapidly.
7.2.2  The innovative project contractual framework and implementation and financial arrangements
provided adequate guarantees to the fuel suppliers and emergency power producers such that the
anticipated risks at the time of preparation were drastically reduced. For instance, the risk of
non-collection of power sales by KPLC was mitigated by obligating KPLC to deposit net sales revenues
into the escrow account based on an agreed formula. The formula calculated net deposits as the difference
between energy sent out by the IPPs and predetennined transmission and distribution costs (including
system losses) and customer default costs.
7.3 OverallBankperformance:
7.3.1 Based on the project's specific objective of restoring power supplies, the Bank's overall
perfbrmance in achieving lending and supervision phases was satisfactory. Although the AP was not a
specific objective or component of the project, it was a critical mitigabon measure whose implementation
the Bank had a responsibility to monitor. The Bank shares responsibility with tie Government for the
unsuccessful implementation of the AP in that when the signs of the GoK's weak commitment to the AP
began to surface more clearly, the Bank agreed to move the requirement for agreement on the AP from a
- 10-



Board condition to an effectiveness one. The decision to defer agreement on the AP to an effectiveness
condition [although the AP was subsequently agreed prior to Board approval] could have signalled that
delays were acceptable.
7.3.2  Overall the project was designed and managed sufficiently well to achieve the stated outputs.
Nevertheless, because the power crisis arose from a combination of a natural disaster and institutional and
management weaknesses, there were three options that could have been considered. First, emergency
support could have been ruled out on the grounds that the crisis was not entirely caused by a natural
disaster. A second option could have been for emergency support to be provided, without a requirement for
institutional and policy reforms as part of the project in accordance with the Bank's normal practice for
emergency operations. The third option was for support to be provided on an emergency basis, but wit a
requirement for implementation of reform measures to address the sector weaknesses that had contributed
to the crisis. The latter option was adopted for the reasons described in Raras. 3.1.4 and 3.1.5. The
implementation experience of the AP raises a number of questions regarding the right response to
emergency situations which are partly due to policy, management and institutional failures (para. 8.1. 1)
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1  The Government's performance during project preparation is assessed as highly satisfactory. The
Government fully cooperated at the time of preparation, in particular setting up the EPTT and the EECC.
These Committee were gazetted and the Chairman of EPTT appointed without any delays. It should be
noted that the EECC was established before the start of the preparation of the project. Procurement
processing of fuel -suppliers and emergency power producers was encouraging, no slippage was recorded.
Government provided, upfront resources (up about 28% of the Credit) under retroactive financing to cover
the start up activities. As discussed under para. 3.5.2 due to excellent preparation, 75 MW of the planned
capacity had already been installed and connected to the grid at the time of Board approval. Satisfactory
coordination between the KenGen, the IPPs and KPLC ensured timely connection of the IPP units to the
grid. KPLC financed the installation of these interconnection facilities and ensured their installation was
done well in advance. Echoing this, the Country Director for Kenya, while witnessing the switching of the
first 12 MW (on September 1, 2000) stated that: " .. We would like to commend the Government, the
EPTT, emergency power producers and fuel suppliers for the speedy implementation of this project. It is
remarkable that today we are switching on 12 MW of additional power from a plant which has been
imported, transported, installed and switched on within a period of three weeks. This is a tremendous
example of professional teamwork at its best. It may be the first time that a project financed by the Bank
(anywhere) has been implemented before financing is finally approved".
7.S Government implementation performance:
7.5.1 The Government's implementation performance for the project is assessed satisfactory. The
conditions for Credit effectiveness were fulfilled rapidly which enabled the Credit to be effective within 11
days of signing the legal documents. However, the Government's performance on the AP is considered
unsatisfactory given that no major aspect of the AP was successfully completed during the project period.
In addition, despite the available capacity at EPTT/RTF to handle technical activities, this aspect was not
fully delegated to the technical team for implementation. For instance, even though the Bank reluctantly
agreed to the GoK proposal for procurement of a consultant to implement the re-organization of KPLC on
a sole source basis, it took 5 months to finalize the contract.
7.6 Implementing Agency:



Same as for Government performance.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1  The overall Borrower performance was mixed. It was highly satisfactory with respect to the
implementation of the project and unsatisfactory with regard to the execution of the AP which was agreed
as a critical component of the strategy for improving the viability and sustainability of overall sector
operations.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1.1  Reform actions in emergency operations. Operational Policy 8.50 states that emergency recovery
loans do not attempt to address long-term economic, sectoral, or institutional problems, and do not include
conditionality linked to macro-economic policies. The OP refers to a country which has been struck by an
emergency that has seriously dislocated its economy and requires Bank support to restore assets and
production levels. For the purpose of the OP, an emergency is considered an extraordinary event of limited
duration, such as a war, civil disturbance, or natural disaster (e.g. cyclones, droughts, earthquakes, floods,
forest fires, and tidal waves) . In this particular case, while drought was the immediate cause for the
disruption to Kenya's power supply, the longer-term determinants of the crisis lay in the institutional and
management weaknesses of the sector. Because of the contributory role of the drought in creating the crisis
and the severe disruption to the economy, the Bank decided to classify it as an emergency, and hence to
offer support on emergency procedures. Nevertheless, it also decided to require the Govermment to
accelerate institutional and policy actions to mitigate against future recurrence of the management problems
that had contributed to the crisis. As it turned out, the Govemment's commitment to implement the project
was strong (as is normally the experience with emergency operations), but it was weak with respect to
executing the institutional aind policy actions. In evaluating this experience, the following three questions
arise:
Is it advisable to provide emergency recovery support in cases in which policy and/institutional factors
have played a role in bringing about a crisis situation ? The experience with this operation supports
the notion that the decision should be based on the implications of the "with' and "without"
emergency support scenarios on growth and poverty (paras. 3.1.3-3.1.5J).
If emergency support can be provided in such situations, should it be accompanied by reform
conditions ? Since the design of emergency operations require implementation of mitigation
measures, the policy/institutional related causes of the emergency would need to be addressed to
avoid repeat disasters. By linking the measures to carry out the reform actions to the emergency
operation, stakeholders can be sensitized on important sectoral policy issues (para.4.5. 1) 
If emergency support is provided, should the Govemment be required to undertake the envisaged
reform actions upfiont as is increasingly being required for regular operations ? The lesson learned
here is that when some institutional/policy changes are deemed important to mitigate against repeat
disasters in emergency operations, it is advisable to commit the Borrower by requiring upfront
irreversible actions to be taken before approval offinancing, especially if the sector/macro
environment is characterized by fragile commitment to reform. Borrowers typically have strong
incentives to implement emergency operations and the same should apply to realistic actions on
policy and institutional issues.
8.1.2 Public Sector Project Management Capacity. The implementation experience demonstrated that
- 12 -



there are strong professional skills within the energy sectorfor the design and management of high
quality projects provided that a sound administrative framework with strong leadership is established
within which staff can operate (para. 7.1.2). The administrative framework for this project included strong
experienced leadership, a clear and fill mandate with regard to the procurement, payment processing and
other project management decisions. The framework included simplified disbursement and procurement
arrangements and large special accounts to expedite disbursements. Nevertheless, it also provided for
timely ex-post verification of transactions through monthly audits by independent auditors. The experience
with implementation of the project sharply contrasts with that of the AP for which there was fragile
commitment and the Restructuring Task Force was not fully empowered to take decisions. For example
consultants to assist with bidding and evaluation of IPP bids were selected within 5 days on a sole source
basis, whereas it took 5 months for the GoK to select a consultant for the OMR, also on a sole source
basis.
8.1.3 Financing Arrangements for Emergency Power Supplie& The project design introduced an
innovative financing structure which enabled the proceeds from the project sales to be used for co-financing
IPP and fuel supply contracts together with the IDA credit. The escrowing of project proceeds under strict
auditing arrangements combined with large special accounts for the IDA credit was adequate to replace the
need for govemment guarantees for the IPPs (para. 3.5.2). Hence, an important lesson is that such
schemes can be usedfor short term operations in which negotiation of guarantees would require more
time than is available in an emergency situation.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
MINISTRY OF ENERGY
Telegrams: "MINPOWER", Nairobi                               NYAYO HOUSE
Telephone: Nairobi 330048                                    P.O. Box 30582
Fax: 240910                                                  NAIROBI
Telex: MINERGY
When replying please quote
Ref. No. ME/CONF/2/11/14TY                                   Date: 26th June, 2002
Mr. Makhtar Diop
Country Director
World Bank Mission - Kenya
Hill Park Building, Upper Hill Road
NAIROBI
Dear
RE: DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(ICR) FOR THE EMERGENCY SUPPLY PROJECT (CR. 3425-KE)
I wish to acknowledge receipt of the above captioned draft ICR for the Emergency Power Supply
- 13 -



Project. In General the draft ICR has explicitly documented the respective commendable roles
played by the Bank and GOK in making the Emergency Power Supply Project an exemplary
success. Having made this observation, my specific comments on the draft ICR are as follows by
paragraph
3.1.3 a. replace the words "to about" with the word "by" in the fifth line from the top of the
paragraph.
b. It is not correct to assign the entire blame on the power crisis to institutional and
management weaknesses in the power sub-sector       including KPLC and therefore it
is proposed to delete the last two sentences of this paragraph for the following reasons:
(i)   In our view, broader issues associated with donor aid embargo commencing 1991 were
largely to blame for lack of adequate investment in power sub-sector in the 1990s. As you are
aware we had a comprehensive least-cost power development plan in place from 1990 which
could not be implemented due to lack of donor funding;
(ii)  The late entry of IFC in the negotiations for Kipevu II after the PPA was signed in
November 1998 contributed partly to the power crisis since more than one year was lost in
mobilizing requisite funding for the Project. Negotiations started around July 1997 with CDC and
at that time IFC was only present as an observer at some meetings. Had IFC participated
effectively from the very beginning, Kipevu 11 would have come on stream in the second quarter
of 2000, thus sharply reducing the effect of power rationing; and
(iii)  KPLC network is operated efficiently.
3.1.4 The power crisis was largely contributed by the drought and this should
come out without any ambiguity in the report.
3.1.4.1 (i)  It is proposed to delete the sentence commencing with the word "However" in line
seven from the top of this paragraph because the institutional and management
structure of KPLC played a very minor role, if any, in contributing to the power
crisis. It should be noted that the restructuring of KPLC had been planned by the
company after the completion of the Institutional Strengthening Project whose
implementation was well known to the Bank. Given this position it is incorrect for
the Bank to indicate that it initiated the restructuring programme.
(ii)  For the reasons stated in 3.1.3, it is inaccurate to state that there was poor implementation
of the power sub-sector investment programme. It should also be noted that all the agreed
projects have been implemented and that by the time drought struck, a 30MW Gas Turbine and an
80MW third unit at Gitaru had been implemented using internally generated funds. The
two-stop-gap power plants (Iberafrica and Westmont) were implemented on a fast-track basis
through KPLC's sole initiatives.
3.5.2 Change 50 MW to read 75MW in the second line of this paragraph because both
- 14 -



Aggreko's (45MW) and Cummins (30MW) plants were dispatching full power by October 26,
2000.
3.5.3  Despite the initial delay in implementing the AP, we believe that its full impact can only be
realized over a period of one to four years. Given this assessment, it is not correct to state that
the outcomes of both OMR and FMR were unsatisfactory, unless the Bank can clearly state the
areas of deficiencies in their implementation.
4.1.2 For the reason given in paragraph 3.5.3, the incomplete statement in the last sentence of
this paragraph is misplaced and should therefore be deleted. Otherwise, and for the reasons given
in 3.5.3, the Bank should clearly state the areas not satisfactorily implemented in the AP.
4.2.3 The reason why KPLC's privatization is still outstanding is because a need for a Power
Market Design and Pre-privatization Study, currently ongoing, was identified later in the course
of AP implementation.
4.2.4 Change the actual dates in the last column of Table 3 as follows:
(i)   Evaluation of IPP Bids - July 9, 2000
(ii)   Contract negotiations with selected IPPs - July 31, 2000
(iii)  Signature of power purchase agreements with IPPs - August 7, 2000.
4.2.5  As stated earlier, it is inaccurate to attribute the problems facing the power sub-sector to
the institutional and management weaknesses of the power sub-sector
4.2.6 (i)    The correct position regarding the senior managers in KPLC, following the
reorganization of its corporate headquarters was that following the interviews in
April 2001 five of the managers were reappointed, one promoted from within,
three redeployed and five were retired or retrenched depending on the period of
service. You should therefore reflect this correct position in the second sentence
of this paragraph.
(ii)   Replace the words "were separated" in the third and fourth sentences of this paragraph
with the word left.
4.2.7 Restructure the first sentence of this paragraph as follows: Overall, the results of the
OMR have not yielded significant positive cost savings although KPLC estimates that on
completion savings of about Kshs. 1.0 billion per annum would be achieved in FY2004 onwards
from the staff retrenchment programme covering 2031 employees.
5.1.1 Note that the unusual rains were in January 2001 and not 2000.
5.2.1 The statement that the absence of strong political will and commitment resulted in
- 15 -



unsatisfactory implementation of the AP is not fair. The Bank should appreciate the fact that
challenges that were brought by the drought and the implementation of the EPP project
necessitated prioritization of the EPP project on account of the impact of the acute power
shortages on the economy. This should be clearly reflected in the report.
5.2.2 Change the number of months in the second sentence in this paragraph from five to two
and delete the last sentence, because by the time the duty and tax exemption was granted in
January 2001, all the KenGen's thermal plants were operating at their peak.
5.3.1 Given that the Bank has appreciated the priority accorded to the inplementation of the
Emergency Power Supply Project (EPP) in order to improve the power supply to the economy,
the Bank should accept that this priority attention largely contributed to the delay in the
implementation of the AP.
5.4.1 Change the amount figure of the undisbursed balance of the credit from USD17.68 million
to USD16.56 million and the figure on the balance of the Escrow Account from USD23.3 million
to USD23.0 million.
5.4.2 It should be stated in the 4th sentence that the balance of the Escrow Account Funds was
used by GoK to settle electricity bills for various Ministries and Departnents which had been
outstanding. KPLC in turn used these funds to finance its staff retrenchment programme (US$9.6
million) and to partially pay KenGen (US$ 13.4 million) for the outstanding payables. KenGen
used these funds to partly close the financing gap for Olkaria II.
6.1.1.1 (i)  Restructure the fourth sentence of this paragraph to read as follows: KPLC is
incurring high levels of financial losses due to inadequate trading margins caused
by a combination of low retail and high bulk tariffs and this problem has been
compounded further by high levels of receivables. As a result of these factors,
KPLC has been experiencing liquidity problems.
(ii)  It should be noted that privatization of KPLC per se would not necessarily address
the current challenges facing KPLC.
7.2.2 It should be noted that KPLC's collection programme did not discriminate sales from
EPPs and those from other power producers. It is, therefore, unfair for the Bank to indicate that
collection of power sales by KPLC from the EPP was not comparable to KPLC's past collection
record. The Bank should also note that since 1999, KPLC's revenue collections have been
between 95% and 100% of its monthly billed revenue.
7.3.2 As stated elsewhere, the power crisis was primarily caused by the drought and given this
position it is inappropriate to repeatedly over emphasize that the crisis was partly contributed by
the institutional and management weaknesses of the power sub-sector.
7.4.1 In the seventh line of this paragraph change 50 MW to 75 MW.
- 16 -



7.5.1 Delete the last sentence of this paragraph because the procurement delay was largely
contributed by the delayed approval by the Bank for reasons associated with single sourcing and
scope of services in respect of fees demanded by PWC. Also note that KPLC had even proposed
to accelerate its restructuring to be ahead of the March 2001 programme agreed with the Bank
but has been constrained by lack of requisite funding.
8. 1.1  As the power sub-sector reform agenda and implementation process were already in place
long before the onset of the power crisis and of the accompanying mitigating Emergency Power
Supply Project, it is inaccurate to state in this paragraph that the longer term determinant of the
crisis lay in the institutional and management weaknesses in the sector. Given these facts, it is
proposed to delete the sentence in line seven commencing with the words "in this particular
case...".
Finally, a few typographical errors have been observed but these have not been highlighted since I
believe you have already picked them.
It will be appreciated if you would incorporate the foregoing comments in the ICR.
Yours,
P4 w44 X N41
Prof Wilfred M. Mwangi
PERMANENT SECRETARY
(2) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
|.W x X  dlCtiMrsiX;,r n-l:               '     |      AcaaPSst Estlmat --
Output Indicators:_
Ind16M6 ~ ~ ~                                       -tet   ai T
l j indl or/mrx                                                Actueted -n ls 'R|-  f  A a   Eim  -
End of project
No Performance indicators or Log frame was prepared for the emergency operation
-18-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Apria      call Latst   ercentage o
EAstiat       EsA atdprasl
' ,' -:' 1,Pr,oetC   Co mponent . .,million'      US$ million  _:_--"";;,_-
Capacity Purchases                                35.15          31.49         89.59
Fuel Purchases- IPP Plants                        60.42          42.89         70.99
Fuel Purchases- Existing Plants                   25.00           8.44         33.76
Total Baseline Cost                              120.57          82.82
Total Project Costs           120.57         82.82
Total Financing Required           120.57         82.82
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement :M1et'hod'        , "       o''l.Cos
x                       -ditur, CTot at s- Ni i     hra
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
{0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    35.15        0.00         85.42        0.00        120.57
(30.00)      (0.00)       (42.00)      (0.00)      (72.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
S. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    35.15         0.00        85.42         0.00       120.57
(30.00)      (0.00)       (42.00)      (0.00)      (72.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
' 'Exp, ,nditueCategy ,B            Pro, ,curemen*Mlth , ,t ,h,               ; T-;
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    54.87        0.00        17.00        0.00        71.87
(37.71)      (0.00)       (16.61)      (0.00)     (54.32)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
-19 -



(0.00)         (0.00)   I    (0   )    I    (0.00)       (0.QO)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Mlscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                        54.87          0.00          17.00          0.00         71.87
(37.71)        (0.00)        (16.61)        (0.00)       (54.32)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
manafgig the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermment units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in USS million equi alent)
Component    tlt t ;; -                        .                               t Percentage of Appraisal
> ~~N < _ ;SApp               lEs1tl ~iAifate  ;ll~ Actu al/atest g ;
__________       _    . Bank     G ovt,    C F.      Bank      GoBtank .G          Bank   ov      CoF.,
Capacity Purchases       30.00      5.15               29.28      2.21              97.6    42.9
Fuel Purchases-IPPs      17.00     43.42               16.60     26.29              97.6    60.5
Fuel Purchases-Existing  25.00      0.00                8.44      0.00              33.8    0.0
Plants
- 20 -



Ainnex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Standard economic analysis was not carried out because of the emergency nature of the operation
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                    Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
June 2000                  5    I FA/TL, I 00,1 FMS, I PE
and I PA
Appraisal/Negotiation
September 2000             7    1 FA/TL, 1 00, 1 FMS, 1
PE, I PA, 1 LYR, I DO
Supervision
March 2001                  2   1 FA/TL, I 00,                   S             S
October 2001                    IFA/TL, I 00, I PE               S             S
ICR
Febmary 2002               3    1FA/TL, I 00, PE andI            S             S
MA
FA/TL = Financial Analyst/Team Leader; 00 = Operations Officer; PE = Power Engineer; MA =
Management Adviser, PA = Program Assistant; FMS = Financial Management Specialist; DO =
Disbursement Officer; LYR = Lawyer
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appmisal/Negotiation                  28.08                     80,502
Supervision                           12.40                     31,511
ICR
Total                                 40.48                    112,013
Note: The staff weeks and related costs for the identification/preparation and appraisal/negotiation are not
disaggregated in SAPP; and so are those for supervision and ICR.
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                      O H   OSUOM O N       * NA
O Sector Policies                     O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
OL Physical                            O H  OSUOM     O N   O NA
OI Financial                          O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
I Institutional Development           O H O SU O M    O N   0 NA
O Environmental                       O H   OSUOM     O N   O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction             O H   OSUOM     O N   O NA
O Gender                        OH OSUOM ON *NA
LI Other (Please specify)       OH    OSUOM     ON    * NA
O Private sector development          0 H   O SU O M  0 N   0 NA
OI Public sector management           0 H   O SU O M  0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM       O N   * NA
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                               Rating
rO Lending                                        OHS OS       OU    OHU
O Supervision                                     OHS OS       OLU   OHU
O Overall                                         OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
El Preparation                                    OHS OS       O U   O HU
El Government implementation performance          OHS OS       0 U   0 HU
El Implementation agency performance              O HS *S      0 U   0 HU
El Overall                                        OHS Os       O u   O HU
-24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Implementation Completion Report on the Emergency Power Supply Project (IDA Credit 3425-KE),
dated March 2002, Prepared by the Ministry of Energy, Republic of Kenya
2. ICR Mission Aide Memoire, February, 20,2002
3. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association to
the Executive Directors on a Proposed Credit to the Republic of Kenya for an Emergency Power
Supply Project, dated September 14, 2000
- 25 -



IBRD 31106
IPP FACILITIES PROPOSED UNDER  400
K E N Y A                                 THIS PROJECT:
EMERGENCY POWER SUPPLY P  EMBAKASI, NAIROBI (75iMW)  EXISTING FACILITIES-
EMERGENCY POWER SUPPLY PROJECT                                EMBRAKAS, NAIROBI (30MW)     1      OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL FIELD
POWER SYSTEM                                    RUARAKA, NAIROBI (30MW0             HYDRO POWER STATIONS
FACILITIES UNDER IMPLEMENTATION4I  A  DIESEL POWER STATIONS
0       GEOTHERMAL POWER STATION     *     STEAM POWER STATION
A/?  *  DIESEL POWER STATIONS               KPLC DISTRIBUTION AREAS
S U D A N        ..    -7       ;                                                                   220 kV TRANSMISSiON LINES
U D A N7220kV TRANSMISSION LINES                                                        132 kv TRANSMISSION LINES
220 kV TRANSMISSION LINES          66 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
132                                33VkVRTRANSMISSIONLLINE
. ...                   POSSIBLE SITES OF HYDRO              33 kv TRANSMISSION LINES
/0                                     ---                 INT\ *  POWER STATIONS
N.. - 5   '  _  DENSELY POPULATED AREAS
_No-  1  -INTERNATIONAL OUNDARIESA
is       J     \                     's    ~~~~~~~~E T H I O  P I A ;;
Lake                  /        '                 /                          /
Turkano a                                                                 /
<        ~~~Lodw3o _9   X/2                                        A,
N    RTH                l Molo Camp
*   VA LLEY                          f          *        0                             | TA
V   L L EYM Mrsabit
UGANDA                    Turkwel                                                                                   0O
J                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
g EN                                                                                     O  , C EANCTR   L
Tfi~ ~~             ~~~~~        ~    ~~     ~      ~~~~ I F T           HoL( E _e                        > '
r -,A.*au,                   -- 
_-~UD                             40                                                    Momos    Ti snapI 0ur u  prdue byt
TAZAI            OKEA/N\                                                            K~a'i   Mp DeignUt ofh Wol Ban.
.                                                                                                Then_  boundaries, colors, deminations
hu r       YA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~adaysle nomains,,unnti
2-/ ~0 25 /0 75 S0
/ >\' l_ _ ~~~~~~~i                                ru\W~/ %0 mu
SUDAN                                                                           COAST 38  MILES  40-  boundCries.
rJ  ETHIOPIA  .0:r0LIA ,1 . .             .         /\8                                             SE        0
KENeYA                                                                                               0 c E A i\i
WWUNDI             IV, IWI.At  _4o                2n\                                         This map os prodocedby the
:E ll TANZANIA l   O C c' A N  4                                         _      Kipovu  Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
TANZANI            OCA                  ANZANIA                   '            s    ombros    The boundaries, colors, denominotions
s_~~~~                                             ~     ~~~~~~~~~ A  N  Z Ao nd anyothermformation shownon th;s
i  m                            5                s          v          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~map cdo nol mply, on the part of The
/ ZAMBIA i %~~~'  CCCs R>,                                                                  World Bank Group, any ludgment on the
E 2  ,I r   M7R;} .i!>l    o    2'i0 1,  5~0  75  0                   ^^                endorseme/nt or accerprtance of suc
=t   )(M     H      GS)           36        MILES               b'                         4     oundaries.
SEPTEMBER 2000






IMAGING
Report No.:         24338
Type:      lCR



