Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3425 KE
Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Power Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  October 27, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3425 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 27, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the Project), has requested the Association to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide 
assistance to finance the costs of an emergency plan for the restoration 
of electricity supply to near normal levels following the acute shortages 
caused by drought in the last three consecutive rain seasons;
(C)
part of the Project will be carried out in part by Kenya 
Electricity Generating Company Limited (KenGen) with the Borrower’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make part 
of the proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Credit) available to KenGen, as set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of 
even date herewith among the Association, KenGen and KPLC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set 
forth below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said 
Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board of 
Governors of 
the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating Countries’ 
means, 
collectively, all such countries.” ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not 
a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of 
the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Contractual Implementation Framework” means the set of 
agreements entered into or to be entered into among the Borrower, IPPs, 
KenGen, and KPLC to facilitate the production of electricity by IPPs, the 
sale of the electricity generated through the IPPs to final consumers, 
and the collection of associated revenues and remittance of net revenues 
by KPLC into the Escrow Account, and the use of such revenues under 
escrow arrangements. This framework includes: (1) the Capacity Purchase 
Agreement between Aggreko UK Limited and Government of Kenya, dated 
August 7, 2000; (2) the Capacity Purchase Agreement between Cummins Power 
Generation Limited and Government of Kenya,  dated August 7, 2000; (3) 
the Capacity Purchase Agreement between Deutz UK Limited and Government 
of Kenya, dated August 10, 2000; (4) the Support Services Agreement 
between Kenya Electricity Generating Company Limited and The Kenya Power 
and Lighting Company Limited and Aggreko UK Limited, dated August 7, 
2000; (5) the Support Services Agreement between Kenya Electricity 
Generating Company Limited and The Kenya Power and Lighting Company 
Limited and Cummins Power Generation Limited, dated August 7, 2000; (6) 
the Support Services Agreement between Kenya Electricity Generating 
Company Limited and The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited and 
Deutz UK limited, dated August 10, 2000; (7) the Supplemental Power 
Purchase Agreement to be entered into between Kenya Electricity 
Page  3
Generating Company Limited and The Kenya Power and Lighting Company 
Limited; (8) the Agreement on Revenue and Escrow Account to be entered 
into between the Government of Kenya and KPLC; and (9) the Capacity Lease 
Agreement to be entered into between the Government of Kenya and KenGen;
(b)
“EECC” means “Emergency Electricity Coordinating Committee”, 
an administrative committee, established by the Borrower on August 2, 
2000 pursuant to Legal Notice Number 4865; 
(c)
“EPTT” means “Emergency Power Technical Team”, a team 
established by the Borrower on August 2, 2000 pursuant to Legal Notice 
Number 4866;
(d)
“Escrow Account” means the account in Kenya Shillings to be 
opened pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement in a local 
commercial bank, acceptable to the Association, for the purpose of 
holding the collections from KPLC consumers on account of power sales 
from IPPs under the Project;
(e)
“KenGen” means “Kenya Electricity Generating Company 
Limited”, a  limited liability company incorporated and operating under 
the laws of the Borrower;
(f)
“KPLC” means  the “Kenya Power and Lighting Company 
Limited”, a limited liability company incorporated and operating under 
the laws of the Borrower;
(g)
“IPP” or “IPPs” means “Independent Power Producer” or 
“Independent Power Producers”, namely, collectively, Aggreko UK Limited; 
Cummins Power Generation Limited; and Deutz UK Limited, which are 
companies contracted by the Borrower to provide generating capacity under 
the Contractual Implementation Framework;
(h)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement among the 
Association and KenGen and KPLC of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(i)
“Project Month” means the thirty-day period beginning from 
the Effective Date and ending thirty days thereafter (the First Project 
Month), and any thirty-day period beginning at the end of the First 
Project Month, or at the end of subsequent Project Months;
(j)
“Project Quarter” means the three-month period beginning 
from the Effective Date and ending three months thereafter (the First 
Project Quarter), and any three-month period beginning at the end of the 
First Project Quarter, or at the end of subsequent Project Quarters;
(k)
“Special Account(s)” means the account(s) referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(l)
“Subsidiary Financing Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and KenGen pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty 
five million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
55,100,000).
Page  4
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in US dollars two special deposit accounts in a commercial bank 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  The first 
of the Special Accounts (Special Account A) shall be used exclusively for 
Part A of the Project, and the second Special Account (Special Account B) 
shall be used exclusively for Part B of the Project.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001
or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 
2011 and ending October 1, 2040. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on October, 1 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by 
Page  5
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment 
of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall (i) carry 
out Part A of the Project through EECC with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate financial, technical, environmental 
and administrative practices and shall provide promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project; 
and (ii) cause KenGen and KPLC to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of KenGen and  
KPLC therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable KenGen and KPLC to perform 
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
to Category (3) of the table in Schedule 1 to the Agreement
not exceeding 
the equivalent of US$25,000,000 available to KenGen under a subsidiary 
financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and KenGen, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association which shall include, but without being limited to, the 
provisions set forth in Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Page  6
Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall take steps, 
and/or cause KenGen to take steps, to:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that 
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by KenGen in respect of 
Part B of the Project pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of Part A of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for 
the Escrow Account and Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six (6) months after 
the end of each such year, the report of such audit 
by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of  statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with 
Page  7
sound accounting 
practices, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures are retained until at least one 
year 
after the Association has received the audit report for the Project Month 
in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account 
was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine 
such records.
(d)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section 
and those for the 
Special Accounts for each Project Month audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than 30 days after the end 
of each Project Month the report of such audit by 
said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to 
whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Project Month, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02
The Borrower shall ensure that all amounts deposited 
in the Escrow Account shall be used exclusively: (i) to make payments to 
IPPs; (ii) for fuel supplies; and (iii) for auditors and experts approved 
by the Association, in accordance with the Contractual Implementation 
Framework.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
KenGen or KPLC shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that KenGen or KPLC will be able to 
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Memorandum and Articles of KenGen governing the 
operations of KenGen shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
of KenGen to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Memorandum and Articles of KPLC governing the operations 
of KPLC shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived 
Page  8
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of KPLC to perform 
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(e)
The Contractual Implementation Framework shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the carrying out of the Project and the realization of the 
objectives thereof.
(f)
The Escrow Account has been used for purposes other than 
those stated in Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and KenGen;
(b)
the Escrow Account has been opened;
(c)
the Borrower has employed, with respect to Part A of the 
Project, the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
acceptable to the Association; 
(d)
KenGen has employed, with respect to Part B of the Project, 
the auditors  referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and in 
Section 4.01 of the Project Agreement, acceptable to the Association; and
(e)
the Borrower has submitted to the Association:  (i) a 
detailed action plan, satisfactory to the Association, for the 
restructuring of KPLC; and (ii) a public statement, satisfactory to the 
Association, consistent with the above-mentioned action plan, outlining 
the Borrower’s plan for the restructuring of KPLC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by KenGen and KPLC and is legally binding upon KenGen and KPLC 
in accordance with its terms; 
(b)
that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and KenGen and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and KenGen in accordance with its terms; and
(c)
that the Contractual Implementation Framework has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Borrower, KenGen or KPLC as the case may be 
and is legally binding upon them in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Page  9
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the 
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen years 
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible 
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi
Republic of Kenya
Cable address:
Telex:
   FINANCE
22921
   Nairobi
MINFIN-KE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ Felistas Khayumbi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  10
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Electric Power
  22,960,000
100%
purchases required
for the Project
(2)
Fuel and petroleum
  13,000,000
100%
products for IPPs
required for the
Project
(3)
Fuel and Petroleum
  19,140,000
100%
products for KenGen
required for the Project
TOTAL
  55,100,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals for an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 11,100,000, may be made on account of payments made for eligible 
expenditures before that date but after May 15, 2000; and
(b)
expenditures for goods and services supplied under a 
contract which any national or international financing institution or 
agency other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance or which the Association has financed or agreed to finance under 
another credit. 
3.
It is understood that the percentages of expenditures to be 
financed under the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have 
been calculated on the basis of the provisions of a letter issued by the 
Borrower's Ministry of Finance pursuant to Legal Notice Number 69 (The 
Customs and Excise Act, Chapter 472) of the Borrower, which provides for 
an exemption of taxes and customs duties levied in the territory of the 
Borrower on works, goods and services for this Project. If any change is 
made to said letter and Legal Notices which has the effect of levying 
taxes or customs duties on such works, goods and services, the 
percentages referred to above shall be decreased in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to address 
Page  11
the current power crisis through the financing of electric power 
purchases and fuel needed to urgently restore near to normal levels of 
power supply to industrial, commercial and residential consumers and to 
sustain macroeconomic performance.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon, 
from time to time, to achieve such objectives:
Part A: 
Emergency Electric Power
1.
Assisting the Borrower in acquiring emergency electric power from 
IPPs.
2.
The acquisition of fuel and other petroleum products for the IPPs’ 
plants.
Part B: 
Emergency Fuel
Financing utilization of productive capacity through the 
acquisition of fuel and other petroleum products for KenGen.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 and September 1997, and January 1999 (the Guidelines), 
subject to the modifications set forth in the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Schedule.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B: 
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto. Paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 of the Guidelines shall specifically 
apply to the procurement of power and generation capacity. Fuels shall be 
procured using the Bank's Standard Bidding Document for the Procurement 
of Crude Oil/Petroleum Products.
Part C:
Limited International Bidding
Six weeks requirement of fuels for the emergency plants shall be 
Page  12
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines, using the Bank's Standard Bidding 
Document for the Procurement of Crude Oil/Petroleum Products.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Prior Review
With respect to each contract, irrespective of contract value, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Main Provisions of the Subsidiary Financing Agreement
The Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall include, but without being 
limited to, provisions to the following effect:
(a)
the obligation of KenGen to perform all of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement; 
(b)
products required for Part B of the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the Association’s procedures as set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the bearing by KenGen of the cost of fluctuations in the 
currencies relent to it.
B.
Overall Project Implementation
1.
General
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, the carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
EECC
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, 
the EECC, with functions satisfactory to the Association, and with staff 
with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association. The 
EECC shall be responsible for supervising the implementation of the 
Project.
3.
EPTT
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, 
the EPTT with functions satisfactory to the Association, and with staff 
with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association. The 
Borrower shall cause the EPTT to carry out the technical and financial 
management of the Project as well as the procurement for IPPs fuel and 
petroleum products.
4.
Quarterly Reviews
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
not later than the end of the First Project Quarter, and not 
later than the end of each Project Quarter thereafter, undertake, in 
conjunction with the Association,  KenGen and KPLC, a joint review on all 
Page  13
matters relating to the progress of the Project;
(b)
not later than one month prior to each Quarterly Review, 
furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress of the Project; 
and
(c)
following each Quarterly Review, act promptly and diligently 
in order to take, or assist KenGen and/or KPLC in taking, any corrective 
action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in the 
implementation of the Project, or to implement, or assist KenGen and/or 
KPLC in implementing, such measures as may have been agreed upon between 
the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means, in respect of Special 
Account A for Parts A of the Project, Categories (1) and (2) as set forth 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and in respect of Special 
Account B for Part B of the Project, Category (3) as set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time 
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $10 million in respect of Special Account A for Part A of the Project; 
and to $10 million in respect of Special Account B for Part B of the 
Project, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
respective Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; 
provided, however that:
(i)
in respect of Special Account A, for Part A of the 
Project, unless the 
Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation to be disbursed 
on the 
Effective Date shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$10 
million; and 
(ii)
in respect of Special Account B for Part B of the 
Project, unless the 
Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation to be disbursed 
on the 
Effective Date shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$10 
million. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the 
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of 
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
Page  14
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association 
requests for deposits into the respective Special 
Account 
at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of, each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the 
respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association 
from the 
Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories for Special Account A (in respect of Part A of 
the Project) and Special Account B (in respect of Part B of the Project), 
respectively, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, in respect of Part A on one hand, and Part B on 
the other hand, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for 
Part A of the Project on one hand, and Part B of the Project, on the 
other hand, shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
Page  15
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association 
into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
