Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3425 KE
Project Agreement
(Emergency Power Supply Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION,
KENYA ELECTRICITY GENERATING COMPANY LIMITED
and
THE KENYA POWER AND LIGHTING COMPANY LIMITED
Dated October 27, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3425 KE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 27, 2000, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and KENYA ELECTRICITY GENERATING COMPANY 
LIMITED (KenGen), and KENYA POWER AND LIGHTING COMPANY LIMITED (KPLC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Republic of Kenya (the Borrower) and the 
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty five million one 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 55,100,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that KenGen and KPLC agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Subsidiary Financing Agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and KenGen, part of the proceeds of the Credit 
Page  2
related to Part B of the Project provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to KenGen on the terms and 
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
WHEREAS KenGen and KPLC, in consideration of the Association’s 
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have 
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) KenGen declares its commitment to the objective 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, KenGen shall carry out Part B of the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental and technical practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for Part B of the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Association, KenGen and KPLC shall 
otherwise agree, KenGen shall carry out Part B of the Project and KPLC 
shall carry out its obligations in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods not provided for in Schedule 1 but required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. KenGen shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of the Project Agreement. 
Section 2.04. (a) KenGen shall duly perform all its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement and the Contractual 
Implementation Framework, as applicable.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, KenGen or KPLC shall not take or concur in any action 
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving 
the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or the Contractual Implementation 
Framework or any provision thereof.
(b)
KPLC shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Contractual Implementation Framework, as applicable.  Except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, KPLC shall not take or concur in any 
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Contractual Implementation Framework or any provision 
Page  3
thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) KenGen shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part B 
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, 
the Subsidiary Financing Agreement, the Contractual Implementation 
Framework and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
KenGen shall promptly inform the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of 
Part B of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, 
or the performance by KenGen of its obligations under this Agreement and 
the Subsidiary Financing Agreement and the Contractual Implementation 
Framework.
(c)
KPLC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the 
performance by KPLC of their respective obligations under this Agreement 
and the Contractual Implementation Framework.
(d)
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, KenGen 
shall participate fully in the reviews referred to in paragraph B.4 of 
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall: 
(i) furnish to the Borrower and the Association such reports as may be 
required for that purpose, and in such detail as the Borrower or the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of Part 
B of the Project; and (ii) following each review, act promptly and 
diligently in order to take, or assist the Borrower in taking, any 
corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the 
implementation of Part B of the Project, or to implement, or assist the 
Borrower in implementing, such other measures as may have been agreed 
upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
Section 2.06. KPLC shall in accordance with the Contractual 
Implementation Framework, deposit all the net revenues collected from the 
sale of electric power provided by the IPPs in the Escrow Account.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of KenGen 
Section 3.01. KenGen shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. KenGen shall at all times operate and maintain its 
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all 
in accordance with sound engineering, environmental, financial and 
technical practices.
Section 3.03. KenGen shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent 
with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) KenGen shall maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
Page  4
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to Part B of the Project.
(b)
KenGen shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than 30 days after the end 
of each such fiscal year: (A) certified copies of 
the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for 
such fiscal year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such statements and 
report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records, 
accounts and financial 
statements, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the 
Association, of KenGen and of KPLC thereunder shall terminate on the 
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date fifteen years after the date of this 
Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance 
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify KenGen and KPLC of this 
event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or telefax to the 
Page  5
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For KenGen:
Kenya Electricity Generating Company Limited
Stima Plaza, Kolobot Road
P.O. Box 47936
Nairobi, Republic of Kenya
Facsimile:
(254-2) 
248848
For KPLC:
Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited
Stima Plaza, Kolobot
P. O Box 30099
Nairobi, Republic of Kenya
Facsimile:
(254-2) 
337351
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of KenGen or KPLC, may be taken or executed by their respective 
Managing Director, or such other person or persons as the Managing 
Director shall designate in writing, and KenGen and KPLC shall furnish to 
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  6
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
KENYA ELECTRICITY GENERATING COMPANY LIMITED
By /s/ Felistas Khayumbi
Authorized Representative
KENYA POWER AND LIGHTING COMPANY LIMITED
By /s/ Felistas Khayumbi
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
A.
General
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KenGen and KPLC 
shall: (i) apply criteria, policies, procedures and guidelines set out in 
the Contractual Implementation Framework; and (ii) not amend, or waive, 
or permit to be amended or waived, the Contractual Implementation 
Framework or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of 
the Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation 
of the Project. KenGen and KPLC shall take the action referred to in 
Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement.
B.
Quarterly Review
KenGen shall submit to the Association, for its review or approval, 
as the case may be:
(a)
before the beginning of each Project Quarter, a proposed 
work program, including a proposed budget and financing plan, for the 
forthcoming Project Quarter; and
(b)
following each Quarterly Review referred to in Schedule 4, 
paragraph 4 of the Development Credit Agreement, act promptly and 
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to 
remedy any shortcoming identified in the implementation of the Project.
