Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No 2420-TH
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
July 16, 1979
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
$1.00         =    Baht (B) 20
-                                B 1.00        =    $0.05
$1 million    =    B 20 million
B 1 million   =    $50 thousand
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)          =    3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)          0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)       =    2.47 acres  = 6.25 rai
1 rai                =    0.16 ha
1 kilogram (kg)      =    2.2 pounds
1 cubic centimeter  =    0.061 cubic inch
(cc)
ABBREVIATIONS
BAAC       -   Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
DAE        -   Department of Agricultural Extension
DEO        -   District Extension Officer
EA         -   Extension Agent
HEA        -   Home Economics Agent
MOAC        -   Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
MOF         -   Marketing Organization of Farmers
NESDB      -   National Economic and Social Development Board
LS          -   Lump Sum
O&M        -   Operation and Maintenance
PEO        -   Provincial Extension Officer
REO        -   Regional Extension Officer
RID        -   Royal Irrigation Department
RTG        -   Royal Thai Government
SD         -   Standard Deviation
SMS        -   Subject Matter Specialist
USAID      -   US Agency for International Development
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.  BACKGROUND ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
General  . . ...... ............................... ...                    1
The Rural Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             1
Government Rural Policy..                                                  2
Bank Involvement ... . .    4
2.  THE PROJECT AREAS AND PRESENT AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
SERVICES...                                                                5
Agriculture in Thailand   . . . . . . . ..                     . .         5
Crop Production...                                                         6
Present Agricultural Extension Services  . . . . . . . . . . .             7
Agricultural Research. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             9
Agricultural Inputs and Credit    g..9
Development of Agricultural Extension Services . . . . . . . .            10
Results Achieved under the First Extension Project . . . . . .            10
Project Formulation                .. .12
3.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             13
General Description                .. .13
Organization of Agricultural Extension Services  . . . . . . .            14
Staffing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            14
Extension Methodology               .. .14
Fellowships and Overseas Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            16
Regional Training Centers               .. .16
Extension Centers and Housing             .. .17
Vehicles and Equipment.. .                                                17
Design and Construction                .. .17
Implementation Schedule               .. .18
Cost Estimates                 ...18
Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            21
Procurement                   ...21
Disbursements...                                                          22
Accounts and Audit                 ...22
This report is based on the findings of a mission composed of Messrs.
E.B.Boerema and D. Benor (consultant), who visited Thailand from
September 2-20, 1978 and a further visit by Mr. Boerema, from January 22 to
February 2, 1979 for postappraisal discussions.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
4.  ORGAIiIZATION AND IANAGEMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
National  Level  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
Regional Level.   .....................                             24
Provincial Level ...................... .    24
District Extension Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Operational Methods  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
Annual Extension Programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
Coordination with Other Agencies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
Staffing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  29
Staff Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
Consultants  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
Environmental Effects  ....................  .   32
Role  of  Women    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  32
5.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
Benefits   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  32
Risks .....................                                         34
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
Annex 1 - Project Statistics
Annex 2 - Cost Estimates
Annex 3 - Schedules of Expenditures, Disbursements and Allocation
of Proceeds of the Loan
Annex 4 - Economic Analysis Price Structure of Rice and Crop Yield Projection
Annex 5 - Main Performance Indicators, Loan 1393-TH
Annex 6 - Reference Material
Chart 15659 - Organization Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
Chart 19527 - Organization Department of Agricultural Extension
Chart 19536 - Project Organization
Chart 20112 - Implementation Schedule
Map - IBRD 12068R1



THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
General
1.01      The Royal Thai Government (RTG) has requested Bank assistance in
financing the National Agricultural Extension II Project (proposed project).
The first Bank-financed extension project strengthens agricultural extension
services under the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) in 33 of
Thailand's 72 provinces. Four provinces were incorporated under the project
in 1977; in 1978 an additional 11 provinces were provided with full extension
services; and a further 10 and 8 provinces are to be brought under the
project in 1979 and 1980, respectively. Positive results in the first
provinces, such as an improved cropping intensity, the introduction of higher
yielding crop varieties, improved plant densities, the use of new crops and a
general responsive attitude of staff and farmers have prompted the RTG to
request early Bank assistance in financing a second phase project, so that
more farm families would benefit more quickly from the greatly improved
services, and so that the rate of project implementation (about 10 provinces
per year) could be maintained.
1.02      The major objective of the proposed project would be to raise the
productivitv, incomes and quality of life of the 2.3 million farm families in
the remaining 39 provinces not covered under the first project. This objec-
tive would be partly achieved by trained extension agents (EAs) and Home
Economics Agents (HEAs) passing on relevant extension information to farmers
and their families on a systematic and sustained basis. This information
would relate to proven agronomic and farm management practices and would be
specifically related to the enterprises of the region.
The Rural Sector
1.03      About 35 million people, or 80% of Thailand's population of 44 mil-
lion, reside in rural areas where social services are relatively poor,
economic activities limited and agricultural productivity is mainly low. The
increase in agricultural employment (1.4% per year) has been less rapid than
the increase in the rural labor force (3% per year), which has resulted in
substantial rural-urban migration and the growing importance of rural nonfarm
employment and income. In 1970, about 30% of the average national gross farm
family income came from off-farm sources.
1.04      Agriculture continues to be the predominant sector, accounting for
more than 75% of the labor force, about 30% of gross domestic product and
about 70% of all exports. The volume of agricultural production in the
period 1970-76 grew by 4.3% p.a., down from 5.4% in 1960-70, with about 75%
of output accounted for by crop production, 4% by forestry, and the balance
by livestock and fisheries. Most of this recent growth has come from
expansion of the cultivated area since average yields of the major crops have
declined and the cropping intensity remains a low 76%. Rice has become



-2 -
relatively less important in agricultural -value added (declining from 51% in
1960 to 39% in 1975), while upland crops, particularly maize and cassava, have
contributed larger shares to total output. Maize and cassava exports together
are now almost approaching the value of rice exports. The good overall per-
formance of Thai agriculture is in large measure due to a vigorous private
sector and Government investments in infrastructure (roads, water control,
ports, electric power, etc.). Until recently, agricultural support services,
such as research, credit and input supply, and extension, have been given
little emphasis.
1.05      Average incomes of farm households improved to $850 p.a.($142 per
capita) in the period 1970-76, mainly due to an increase in the average area
of cultivated land per farm and higher relative prices for farm products.
There are significant disparities in farm income between the 19 different
agro-economic zones, mainly due to unequal resource endowment, with the
highest incomes being realized in areas of irrigated agriculture in the
Central Region and the lowest in the North and Northeast.
1.06      Despite agriculture's overall good performance during the past
15 years, about one third of the rural population remain poor in absolute
terms (absolute poverty in Thailand is defined by the Bank as a per capita
income of less than $90 p.a.). Moreover, as readily accessible arable land
reserves are exhausted, continued rapid growth of this sector will be more
difficult to maintain. The period of easy accessibility to new land is now
drawing to a close and, with continued quick growth of the rural population,
the national average farm size may already have begun to decline. About two
thirds of all poverty households are in rural areas of the North and Northeast
where the major source of family income is low-yielding rice grown under
rainfed conditions. It is in these areas that the land is most underutilized,
that physical infrastructure is least adequate, and that agricultural and
social support services tend to be the weakest. It is also here that oppor-
tunities for nonfarm employment are the most limited.
Government Rural Policy
1.07      There is growing concern in the Government over these and other
emerging issues of longer-term development of the rural sector. The Govern-
ment is increasingly stressing the need to achieve greater spatial balance in
economic growth and to ensure that all socioeconomic groups benefit from the
growth process. The latest Plan (the Fourth National Economic and Social
Development Plan, 1977-81) states that "several basic policy reforms are
considered necessary for promoting greater economic security for the nation
and creating a more equitable economic and social order which would mean an
eventual eradication of poverty among the large segments of the population."



- 3 -
National development objectives in the Plan include accelerated economic
growth, reduced income disparities, reduced population growth, expanded
employment and improved management of basic resources.
1.08      The Plan details agricultural sector strategies that aim to expand
the value added in agriculture by 5% p.a. These are:
(a) intensification of production in presently cropped areas;
(b) diversification through expanding the livestock, fruit and
vegetable subsectors;
(c) limiting the rate of deforestation and expansion of cultivated
land to 80,000 ha/year; and
(d) emphasizing integrated agricultural development through programs
to improve on-farm irrigation, expand agricultural credit, improve
input delivery systems and strengthen agricultural extension.
Particular emphasis is to be given to regional planning, and to expanding and
decentralizing public utilities, transportation and communication services.
The Plan also calls for the revision of pricing policies for these services
to promote improved distribution of income across regions and socioeconomic
groups and proposes expanded social services among lower-income groups.
1.09      As the land constraint becomes increasingly severe, further growth
of agriculture and the rural sector generally will depend on progress made
in several areas.
(a) Land Productivity. Because new land coming under cultivation
has a lower yield potential, the main source of increased produc-
tion must come from higher yields and cropping intensities. This
will require, in particular, more effective agricultural support
services, such as research, extension, credit and marketing that
lead to improved water management and cultural practices, and
increased emphasis on infrastructure improvement and maintenance.
(b) Rainfed Agriculture. The Government needs to expand its effort
to develop rainfed agriculture, the subsector that presents
the most acute problems of poverty, low yields and natural re-
source degradation. This requires investment in road construction
to improve accessibility of isolated areas, programs of applied
research and extension for developing suitable technological
packages to meet the needs of farmers in different ecological
conditions, and an accelerated program of land titling that
would provide security of tenure and the motivation to pursue
less destructive cultural practices.
(c) Government Institutions. A major constraint on Thailand's future
agricultural development is inadequate planning, implementation
and monitoring capacity for both development projects and more
general supporting services. This reflects in part the highly



-4-
centralized nature of government, as well as functional duplica-
tion and inadequate coordination among government agencies. There
is a particular need to define more clearly the roles of various
agencies involved in land development, settlement and land reform.
(d)  Availability of Inputs and Credit.  In recent years there have been
shortages of fertilizers. In addition, fertilizer prices are about
the highest in Asia, which causes farmers to use less than the
recommended quantities and results in low yields for many crops.
Despite the rapid expansion in the amount of institutional credit
available to agriculture, the small farmer generally continues to
experience difficulty in obtaining adequate crop production credit
at reasonable terms.
Bank Involvement
1.10      The Bank and the Government basically agree on the problems and
development prospects of the rural sector, and Bank lending has responded to
the changing character of the sector's development needs. Until the early
1970s, Bank lending was concentrated on transportation infrastructure and
irrigation, with these two sectors accounting for about 60% of total Bank
lending to Thailand in 1973. Lending for irrigation was the Bank's only
activity in the agricultural sector until FY75. The initial emphasis was on
improving water control through low-cost development in the country's major
irrigation areas. Subsequent lending in irrigated areas provided improved
supporting services, roads and on-farm development. It is expected that
irrigation projects will continue to be important for the overall agricul-
tural growth of Thailand.
1.11      The recent Bank emphasis has been on strengthening government insti-
tutions in agriculture and rural development, and on laying the foundation
for continued diversification of the agricultural sector. Lending in the
past few years has included support for the National Agricultural Extension
Project ($28 million Loan), a Livestock Development Project ($5 million
Loan), the Rubber Replanting Project ($50 million Loan), the Northeast Rural
Development Project ($21 million Loan), the Northeast Irrigation Project
($7 million Credit) and a Northern Agricultural Development Project ($22 mil-
lion Credit). Projects under preparation include: an agricultural research
project, a rural credit project, a rural infrastructure project and irrigation
projects. The project now proposed together with the research and credit
projects aim to strengthen essential rural institutions, while the northern
agricultural development and the research component of the northeast rural
development projects represent an initial effort to assist the Government in
developing improved production technologies for rainfed areas. The livestock
and rubber projects are aimed at diversifying the sector, and increasing
productivity and incomes of poorer farmers. The rural infrastructure project
would provide or improve rural roads and wells for village water supply. The
irrigation project would provide irrigation, drainage and on-farm development
in selected areas.
1.12      The proposed project would further strengthen the DAE, increase
crop yields and improve incomes of farmers throughout Thailand. It is
therefore fully in line with the Government and Bank objectives for future
development in Thailand.



- 5 -
2. THE PROJECT AREAS AND PRESENT AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION SERVICES
Agriculture in Thailand
2.01      Farm Size and Land Tenure.  The total cultivated area in Thailand is
about 14.6 million ha, or about 29% of the country's land area. Nearly 90% of
the 5.0 million farm families /1 are self-employed and 73% of the holdings are
farmed by owner-occupiers rather than tenants. The average holding size is
4.45 ha. The farm size distribution in 1974 is estimated by the Division of
Agricultural Economics within the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
(&IOAC) as follows:
Size of farm       Percentage of farms    Percentage of area
(ha)
Less than 1.0                8                      1
1.0-2.4                  22                      7
2.5-4.9                  30                     21
5.0-7.1                  18                     21
7.2-9.6                  10                     16
More than 9.6               12                     34
100                    100
Only in four provinces, mainly in the Central Plain, does the proportion of
full tenant farmers exceed 25%. In the Northeast, where more than 40% of
Thailand's farm families are located, the highest recorded rate of tenancy is
below 20%.
2.02      There are some 1.53 million holdings within the 39 project provinces
(Annex 1, Table 2) with about 7.0 million ha of farmland, of which 5.34 mil-
lion ha is harvested. Nearly 92% of the farms are operated by the owner and
only a very small percentage are rented outright. The average farm size in
the project provinces is 4.7 ha or slightly larger than the country's average.
About 60% of the harvested area is planted to rice (of which 2.4% is upland
rice), about 10% to corn, 5% to cassava, 4% to sugarcane, 12% to rubber
and 9% to other food and industrial crops, and fruits and vegetables.
2.03       Climate, Soils and Topography.  Thailand's climate is tropical and
monsoonal. The temperature is high and relatively uniform throughout the
year in all regions and is generally favorable for year-round crop production
where adequate water is available.
/1 More than one family may farm a holding. The average is about 1.25
farm families per holding.



- 6 -
Peak temperatures usually occur in March and April with lows from November
through January.  In the Central, Northern and Northeastern Regions, altitude
modifies temperature considerably; in the northern highlands it is cool
enough to produce temperate fruits and vegetables, including vegetable seed.
There is little variation in day length and radiation levels are generally
satisfactory for maximizing yields. Only the Southern Region may receive
inadequate solar radiation for maximum yields during the wet season.
2.04      Except for the South, Thailand is dominated by the southwest
monsoon. Average annual rainfall is around 1,240 mm in the North, 1,200 mm
in the Northeast and 1,340 mm in the Central Region; about 85% of total
rainfall occurs between mid-May and October. While total wet season rainfall
is generally sufficient for rice cultivation, dry spells at critical times
depress yields and supplementary irrigation is beneficial; in the dry season
it is generally impossible to grow a second crop without irrigation. In the
South, average annual rainfall varies with location and ranges from 2,100 to
2,600 mm. The northeast monsoon brings heavy rains from October through
January, which is the main rice growing season. Over half the annual rainfall
occurs during this period, with December rainfall sometimes exceeding 500 mm.
It is very dry from February to April, but rainfall increases from May to
September.
2.05      Most of the irrigable areas in Thailand are in the flood plains of
the major rivers where the combination of heavy rainfall and flooding limits
wet season cultivation to paddy. In the Chao Phya Plain, heavy soils predom-
inate and paddy is also the preferred crop in the dry season. The situation
is similar on the coastal plains of the South. Dry season cropping is more
diversified on the alluvial soils of the North and in the small areas devel-
oped for irrigation in the Northeast. The most extensive soil type in the
Northeast is a sandy loam that frequently becomes waterlogged in the rainy
season and dries out to considerable depth in the dry season. The soil
fertility is moderate to low and rainfed rice is the main crop on this soil.
The undulating plains and river terraces provide drained areas for diversi-
fied cropping (kenaf and cassava) during the rainy season. Many areas would
be available and suitable for tropical legume pastures and livestock enter-
prises. Generally the soils of the Northeast are highly responsive to
fertilizer applications, but high risks are involved where the soil's water-
holding capacity is low and rainfall in unreliable. Valleys in the South
generally have good quality loam soils suitable for rice and a wide range of
other crops. The dominant soils in the South are shallow and sometimes
stoney sands, which extend from the foothills to the sea and are highly
responsive to fertilizer applications.
Crop Production
2.06      Rice yields in Thailand average about 2.0 ton/ha harvested area
and 1.8 ton/ha planted area. Without irrigation, rice yields average about
1.4 ton/ha in the Northeast, where rainfall is least reliable; 1.8 ton/ha in
the Central and Southern Regions; and 2.2 ton/ha in the North. With irrigation,
yields of 2.8 ton/ha are obtained in the wet season and more than 4.0 ton/ha
in the dry season. Corn yields average slightly over 2.0 ton/ha, groundnuts
slightly over 1.0 ton/ha, and soybeans around 1.0 ton/ha. The industrial



crops, cotton and kenaf, average around 1.0 ton/ha, cassava 13 to 18 ton/ha,
sugarcane around 50 ton/ha and rubber about 600 kg/ha. Crop statistics for
each project province together with standard deviations (SD) from the mean
regional crop yields are presented in Annex 1, Table 3. Average provincial
crop yields may differ from the regional average by 30% or more. Given
that the climatic variations within each of the regions are not a major
factor, then it may be concluded that there is ample scope for yield increases.
Long-term (1959-61 to 1973-75) growth rates for crop area, yield and production
are summarized in Annex 1, Table 4. It indicates that there has been a
significant increase in crop area for most crops, but that crop yields are
almost stagnant and have actually been declining for several crops. The major
crop, paddy, grown on 59% of the project area had a long-term yield increase
of only 0.6% p.a., while maize, cassava, kenaf, mungbean and soybean yields
declined, presumably as marginal lands were brought into production.
Present Agricultural Extension Services
2.07      The Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC) consists of
nine major departments, one of which is the DAE (Chart No. 15659). The DAE
provides extension services for most agricultural crops to the 5 million Thai
farm families. Within MOAC, the Departments of Livestock Development,
Fisheries, Land Development and Cooperative Promotion provide these services
for animal husbandry, and pasture and forage production; aquaculture; land
development; and the agricultural cooperatives, respectively. The Tobacco
Monopoly, and at least one private company, operate an efficient extension
service for tobacco growers, in rubber replanting schemes, the Rubber Replanting
Aid Fund provides an extension service to smallholders until the second year
of tapping, and some sugar factories provide a minimal extension service to
farmers growing cane on contract. Extension services provided by different
organizations do overlap in some districts, and further steps would be taken
under the proposed project to improve coordination in the future (para. 4.19).
2.08      Presently the DAE is headed by a Director General, who is assisted
by two deputies. The department is divided at the headquarters level into
nine divisions with extension, technical and administrative responsibilities.
In 1977, under the first project, the divisions were to be grouped functionally
and the Deputy Directors General were to be allocated formal responsibility
for specific divisions. In the field, DAE was until recently loosely organized
into six geographic regions subdivided by the boundaries of the political
jurisdictions, including 72 provinces (changwats) and 686 districts (amphurs)
(MIap IBRD 12068R1). Lines of command were not clearly drawn until the first
project was being implemented.  The Regional Extension Officer (REO) had no
direct supervisory responsibilities over the Provincial Extension Officers
(PEOs) in his region, who reported directly to the Director General or
occasionally through a Deputy Director General at headquarters. DAE's
overall organization has been strengthened as part of the first project, but
it was for several reasons not possible to reorganize as planned, mainly
because the position of Senior Administrative Officer was not approved by the
i4inister of Agriculture and Cooperatives. This resulted in a regrouping of
the nine headquarter divisions under two Deputy Directors General, one
responsible for four administrative and extension divisions and the other for
five technical divisions. The proposed project would further strengthen the
overall organization (paras. 4.02-4.03).



- 8 -
The PEOs supervise District Extension Officers (DEOs) who in turn are respon-
sible for field activities (para. 2.10). Provincial administrators occasionally
become involved in extension matters, since major decisions on agricultural
extension policy and financing are cleared with the Governor at the provincial
level and the District Administrator (Nai Amphur) at the district level.
Extension budgets are prepared by DAE and funds are made available to the PEOs
through the Governors at four-monthly intervals.
2.09      The REO is responsible for certain specialized services administered
from the regional headquarters. His staff consists of Subject Matter Special-
ists (SMSs) who train and backstop provincial staff, and plant protection
staff in the Regional Plan Protection Centers who handle pest eradication
programs. The concentration of most SMSs at regional headquarters has deprived
provincial services of adequate training and technical support on a continuous
basis.
2.10      In each provincial office there are about ten extension and adminis-
trative personnel and generally only one SMS, while there are usually one DEO
and two EAs in each district. Within the 323 districts in the project
provinces, a total of 1,649 extension personnel (206 DEOs, 323 Assistant DEOs,
and 1,110 EAs) serve 2.3 million farm families, giving a district extension
staff-farmer ratio of about 1:1,400. Due to the administrative and regulatory
tasks of extension personnel, particularly those of DEOs and Assistant DEOs,
the effective ratio becomes about 1:2,200. Only 73 HEAs devote all their time
to providing home economics courses for women (1:30,000 farm families).
2.11      Extension personnel in the project provinces usually come from urban
areas and are mostly inexperienced, inadequately trained, and lack confidence
in dealing with farmers. They are excessively burdened with regulatory
and administrative duties. There is no system of regular visits to farmer
groups and no provision for regular staff training. Only a limited number of
large (10-30 rai) demonstration areas are laid out, usually with all inputs
supplied free of charge to the selected farmer.
2.12      An acute shortage of SMSs exists at the field level; generally only
one SMS is stationed in each province, but, in addition, there is on average
one SMS with a higher degree of specialization per province stationed at the
regional headquarters (para. 2.09). This very small pool of SMSs is unable
to provide adequate technical support to the district extension personnel,
particularly in view of their lack of access to vehicles. The SMSs also
rarely have sufficient time to mount training programs or to establish the
regular contact with research personnel needed to keep them informed of new
developments. The shortage of SMS staff is not due to a lack of trained
Thai manpower, but rather to a lack of positions and funds for DAE staffing.
2.13      Extension personnel are inadequately accommodated in the provincial
and district offices, where they usually occupy a single office. This
office also serves as a store for seeds, pesticides, spray equipment, etc.
Staff members are not sufficiently mobile to pay regular visits to individual
farmers, farmer groups or other agricultural organizations, and they lack
implements and agricultural equipment for field demonstrations and audiovisual
aids for group meetings.



2.14      The total professional staff complement of DAE is 2,365 in six
salary grades. Less than half of these officers have direct contact with
farmers. DAE's total extension budget has increased from $7.9 million in the
1974 Thai fiscal year to $12.5 million in 1976 and to $26.8 million in 1979.
The 1980 budget request is for $57.7 million. In the 1979 fiscal year the
budget allocation amounted to about $5.40 per farm family and about $1.85 per
ha of cultivated land (14.6 million ha). Although budgetary allocations have
been increasing in recent years, inadequate funding still contributes to the
specific shortcomings of project provinces. Adequate funds are provided for
provinces incorporated under the first extension project, and most of the
budget increases in 1978 and 1979 are for financing the implementation of the
first project.
Agricultural Research
2.15      Agricultural research is mostly carried out by the Department of
Agricultural Techniques, but universities, Regional Agricultural Centers, the
Tobacco Monopoly and a few other organizations also conduct basic and applied
research. Well over 100 research stations and experimental farms are widely
distributed over the major agro-economic regions of Thailand. Much of the
research work is controlled and planned by staff in Bangkok, but is executed
by research workers in the field, who usually receive inadequate support
services. This has led to an overcentralized research effort which does not
always meet the demands of farmers in a specific locality. Although agricul-
tural research needs to be better focused and strengthened in future, results
from some local and overseas research could be immediately applied by the
majority of farmers. However, there is little or no formal liaison between
extension and research in most project provinces. Extension staff are not
always informed about the latest research findings applicable to their areas
of responsibility and have, in the past, recommended outdated techniques to
farmers. The Government has requested Bank assistance with strengthening its
agricultural research capability and a research project is now under final
preparation. Particular emphasis will be given to the coordination between
research and extension under this project.
Agricultural Inputs and Credit
2.16      About half of Thailand's farmers borrow from noninstitutional
sources, such as relatives, friends, merchants and moneylenders at varying,
but usually high, interest rates. The main sources of institutional credit
are the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC), six types
of cooperatives supervised by the Department of Cooperative Promotion, Farmers'
Associations, sugar factories, tobacco curing barns and several commercial
banks. BAAC has extended loans, both directly and indirectly through coopera-
tives and Farmers' Associations, to about 10% of all farm families, but
indications are that institutional credit currently reaches only about 15% of
the farmers and these are mainly holders of comparatively large properties.
2.17      The availability of high quality seed or planting material is poor,
but is gradually improving through the joint efforts of the Department of
Agricultural Techniques (production of foundation seed), the DAE (through its
Seed Multiplication Division), and the Marketing Organization for Farmers



- 10 -
(MOF) which plans to operate a revolving fund to purchase and distribute seed
with the assistance of extension personnel. In 1976, about 95% of all fertil-
izers used in Thailand were imported. An average of only about 11 kg/ha
(average of all fertilizers available) was used in 1975/76 on all agricultural
land, which is one of the lowest rates in Asia [para. 1.09(d)]. About half
of the available agrochemicals are now manufactured locally. Fertilizers and
agrochemicals are mainly purchased from local traders, but cooperatives and
Farmers' Associations, through MOF, are becoming increasingly important as
suppliers of inputs. Overall usage of quality seed and inputs is one of
lowest in the region.
Development of Agricultural Extension Services
2.18      To achieve sustained agricultural development, the Bank-financed
irrigation projects (Credits 379-TH and 461-TH and Loan 1149-mi) as well as
the Northeast Rural Development Project (Loan 1198T-TH) have included exten-
sion components. These components aimed to ensure that irrigation works,
rural roads and other agricultural infrastructure yielded projected benefits
in the absence of an effective extension service within the project boun-
daries. These extension components used enterprising and knowledgeable
farmers as Farmer Foremen for liaison between the professional extension
service and a large number of farmers. Before commencement of the present
program to strengthen agricultural extension, the regular professional exten-
sion services operated at a ratio of about 1 EA to 2,700 farm families. The
Farmer Foremen in the Bank-financed projects operated at a ratio of 1:200 and
they were supervised by EAs at a ratio of 1:6.
2.19      The system described for irrigation projects led to noticeable
improvements in extension work, largely through a system of regular visits
(once every two weeks) to farmer groups on a "fixed time, fixed place" basis,
and fortnightly training sessions for Farmer Foremen and EAs on topical
subjects by SMSs and extension supervisors (Training and Visits or T&V system of
extension). Unfortunately, the Farmer Foremen received minimal remuneration,
and since they usually cultivated farms of above average size, they were often
unavailable for a full working day during busy times on their own farms.
After a careful review of several alternatives, the Government decided not to
extend the system of Farmer Foremen to the rest of the country under the
National Agricultural Extension Project (Ln 1393-TH). Instead it has chosen
to improve the extension service by employing vocational school graduates who
would be full-time civil servants stationed in the villages. The extension
service would, however, continue to use progressive farmers (contact Earmers)
as their main contact with other farmers in the area.
Results Achieved Under the First Extension Project
2.20      The implementation of the first extension project commenced in four
provinces in 1977. In 1978 a further eleven provinces were added and the
next ten provinces are being incorporated under the project during 1979.
Most new staff appointments for 1979 and preliminary staff training sessions
were completed by the commencement of the wet season in May/June 1979. About
900 EA's have been operating in the first 15 provinces, and another 600
were appointed in April 1979. There remain from 10-20% EA vacancies,
mainly in provinces with a high security risk. The EA's are regularly



- 11 -
trained in up-to-date crop production aspects and receive support from SMS's,
supervisory staff at district and provincial level and from researchers
stationed at the experiment stations. Improvements in staff training programs
and in the schedule of visits to farmer groups are continuously proposed and
adopted. Extension consultants have been particularly effective in assisting
DAE with implementing and refining extension operations.
2.21       Local government authorities and farmers alike have responded most
positively to the provision of frequent visits by trained EAs and HEA's to
farmer and housewife groups. Some offers of temporary free accommodations
were received for the newly appointed EAs, and farmers are freely offering
land for demonstration and experimental plots. Field days, farm walks and
visits to demonstration plots are generally well attended. Rates of adoption
of extension recommendations have been greatest in areas with a low risk of
crop failure. Attempts to diversify cropping and improve cultural practices,
especially with improved crop varieties, are, however, also successful
in drought-prone areas.
2.22       Despite two extremely unfavorable wet seasons in the first two years
of project implementation (a severe drought in the four Northeast provinces in
1977, and extensive flooding in the Northeastern and Central Region provinces,
and drought during rice crop maturation in the southern provinces in 1978-79)
considerable impact has been made by the expanded, and now well organized and
supervised extension service in the 15 project provinces covered at the end
of 1978. Government organized relief work (making available small irrigation
pumps, improved crop varieties, fertilizers and pest control chemicals)
formed the basis of most extension work in the 1978 dry season in the Northeast.
By demonstrating the beneficial effect of a sound agro-technology package to
farmers, the areas of irrigated crops increased about 8 fold and the dry
season rice area increased from 1,800 to 10,500 ha producing a high average
yield of 3.1 ton/ha. A large number of farmers have now purchased their own
pumps as a direct result of achievements in the previous season. In areas
where irrigation is not possible, much emphasis is being given to timely row
seeding of suitable crop varieties, weeding and crop protection. Most of
the positive extension results have been obtained through well conducted
demonstration plots. In the 1978 wet season there were a total of 3,950
demonstration plots of all crops, mainly on properties of contact farmers.
In 1979 a total of almost 27,000 demonstration plots, mainly for rice,
groundnuts, cotton, corn, and mungbean are planned in 25 provinces.   Other
activities which are quickly adopted by farmers are the production of straw
mushrooms and home garden vegetables. Their production is promoted jointly
by the EA and the HEA.
2.23       The civil works program has been completed satisfactorily in four
Northeast provinces and is now in progress in three Central region provinces.
Because of DAE's proposal to provide staff housing at provincial and district
centers and high inflation rates for civil works, costs for the amended civil



- 12 -
works program exceeded appraisal estimates and budget allocations. Retender-
ing for the revised construction program in eight provinces of the Thai FY78
budget year became necessary. Tendering is now in progress for two Regional
Training Centers and for 18 provincial construction packages, and it is
expected that the complete civil works program will become on schedule by
January 1, 1980. Procurement is proceeding in phase with the facilities
being made available and with staff appointments. The overseas higher degree
fellowship program is about to commence and several groups have made visits
to neighboring countries. Due to later staff appointments than anticipated
(4-6 months) and because of the delayed construction program, incremental
operating costs are lower than expected and this may result in an overall
project cost reduction of about $5.5 million (from $56.5 to $51.0 million).
Because of the delayed construction program, disbursements are lower than
anticipated at appraisal (as of late March 1979 $4.3 million, against an
appraisal estimate of about $8.0 million). Main performance indicators for
Loan 1393-TH are presented in Annex 5.
Project Formulation
2.24      The Government proposed early implementation of a second project
following: (a) encouraging results achieved in 15 provinces under the first
project; (b) the frequent requests from other provinces to be provided with
similar improved services; (c) its wish to continue expanding the new style
extension services at a rate of 10 provinces per year; (d) a satisfactory
review of the implementation capacity of DAE; and (e) the expectation of
adequate staff availability in the next five years. Extension methodology and
the ratio of extension workers to farm families would be identical to those of
the first project.
2.25      The project was prepared by a special project preparation team in
DAE with the assistance of a consultant engaged under the first project.
The project was appraised in September 1978 on the basis of a detailed
preparation report and on postappraisal discussions in Thailand in January
1979.



- 13 -
3. THE PROJECT
General Description
3.01      The proposed National Agricultural Extension II Project (proposed
project) would expand and strengthen the DAE's extension services in the
remaining 39 of Thailand's 72 provinces. These provinces were not covered
under the first extension project (Loan 1393-TH). Tables 1-3, Annex 1,
provide the statistical details for the provinces. Following implementation
of the proposed project, all Thai farmers would have regular access to the
agricultural extension service. The proposed project would provide for:
(a) further strengthening of the DAE's headquarters organization and
establishing clear lines of command and coordination from the
national level to the districts;
(b) the establishment of nine extension regions by subdividing the large
Northern, Northeastern and Southern Regions;
(c) improved liaison between extension, research and other agricultural
related organizations in project provinces through the establish-
ment of provincial agricultural extension coordinating committees
and technical advisory panels;
(d) a substantial increase in the number of extension, supervisory,
technical and support staff;
(e) the introduction of sound extension methodology based on a system of
continuous training and regular farm visits (T&V system of extension);
(f) a program of local training for all extension workers along with a
limited number of overseas fellowships, and training tours to
neighboring countries;
(g) the construction of two Regional Training Centers, about 40 combined
Provincial and District Extension Centers, about 270 District Extension
Centers and about 310 housing units with 3 apartments each for EAs;
(h) the procurement of vehicles, equipment, furniture and demonstration
plot materials;
(i) the employment of agricultural and engineering consulting firms, and
short-term specialists; and
(j) project monitoring and evaluation.



- 14 -
Organization of Agricultural Extension Services
3.02      The Director General of DAE would continue to be r-oéosible for
planning, executing, coordinating and evaluating extension services at the
national level. Under the proposed project, he would be assisted by three
Deputy Directors General (an increase of one from the present number) who
would be allocated clear functional responsibility over headquarters adminis-
trative divisions, technical and professional divisions, and the nine exten-
sion regions and the training division respectively. A new group of Inspectors
would be appointed. They would be directl-y responsible to the Director
General and they would be advisers for the implementatinfi :)F extension
services in each of the regions. The chain of command for the execution of
extension services would be from: Deputy Director General for Extension
Operations and Training to REOs, to PEOs, to DEOs and to EAs and HEAs (Chart
19536).
3.03      Staff appointments and related administrative tasks would be carried
out by the various administrative divisions. The construction and procurement
components of the proposed project would be implemented by the special loan
administration section in the Extension Planning and Special Project Division
under the Deputy Director General for Administrative Services. Overall
planning for project implementation would be by the Extension Planning and
Special Project Division, but the execution of the services would be the
responsibility of the REO through the PEO and DEO.
Staffing
3.04      To ensure that DAE has sufficient manpower to fulfill its extension
responsibilities by the time of project completion, staff would be expanded
at various levels and grades. The DAE would need to appoint about 1,800
additional staff. About 1,200 would be EAs and 240 HEAs (para. 4.21) who
would provide the direct contact with the farm families. This staffing
program would provide one EA for about 1,000 farm families usually in one
subdistrict, and each district would have two extension supervisors and one
HEA. The effective EA-farm families ratio would, therefore, improve from
about 1:2,200 (para. 2.10) to 1:1,000. Incremental salaries and allowances
would be included in the proposed project costs (para. 3.18).
Extension Methodology
3.05      Implementation of the proposed project would first aim at the
transmission of simple, low-cost improvements in management practices to the
2.3 million target farm families on some 1.53 million holdings (Annex 1).
Extension advice would concentrate on the production of rice, cassava, maize,
kenaf, mungbeans, and other important food and industrial crops, although
emphasis would initially be placed on one or two major crops in each region.
Advice would cover the entire production cycle, including: selecting appro-
priate seed varieties and seed sources; obtaining institutional credit at
reasonable interest rates; maintaining a correct, weed-free plant stand;



- 15 -
selecting appropriate fertilizers and pesticides and applying them correctly;
and preliminary processing of output (i.e. chipping cassava or retting kenaf)
to a reasonable standard of quality to ensure marketability. Most of this
basic technical information is available in many locations throughout the
country, but it needs to be effectively communicated to farmers. Recommen-
dations would be refined to account for local variations through demonstra-
tions and trials during project implementation. Most trials would be carried
out in conjunction with local research personnel and would aim to verify that
new research findings are applicable to local conditions.
3.06      Each EA would generally be responsible for one subdistrict with
about 10 villages, ranging in practice between 4 and 14, or a total of about
1,000 farm families. Where there are more than 10 villages per subdistrict,
either an additional EA would be appointed, or a few villages would be absorbed
by the EA in a neighboring subdistrict that has less than 10 villages (para.
4.10). The EA, together with village authorities, would select about 10
"rcontact farmers" from among farmers who are respected by their neighbors, who
are receptive to improvements in agricultural techniques, but who are not
necessarily rich farmers with extensive holdings. The EA would work mainly
with the contact farmers during his scheduled weekly or biweekly visits, but
all farmers would be invited to be present. During his visit, the EA would
demonstrate to them the practices that should be followed before the next
scheduled visit and assist the contact farmer in laying out a demonstration
plot. After each visit, each contact farmer would be responsible for impart-
ing the recommendations to 6-12 neighbors or relatives with whom he has
contact on a daily basis and often works cooperatively. The EA would also
visit individual farmers outside the contact farmer group, when time and
circumstances permit, to ensure that recommendations are being transmitted,
understood, and followed to the extent possible. The most important single
objective would be to motivate the contact farmers to adopt new techniques, as
their fields would then demonstrate the efficiency of recommended techniques
to the neighbors.
3.07      Every fortnight, EAs and DEOs would attend a one-day technical
instruction session at the District Extension Center; these would be conducted
by SMSs and other experts when required and available. The sessions would
mainly cover the practical information to be imparted to the farmers in the
next two weeks. The session would begin with a review of the last fortnight's
experiences and a lecture, followed by field work when participants would go
through all steps of the recommended techniques, and finally group discussions.
EAs and DEOs would also attend seasonal instruction sessions to plan approaches
for improving the subsequent cropping cycle.
3.08      The focus of extension efforts on a few critical practices relating
to the major local crops, and on aspects where the probability of quick
results is greatest (such as correct plant densities for the various crops,
introducing new crop varieties and controlling pests and diseases) would
improve the chances of holding the interest and enthusiasm of both the
farmers and the extension workers. In areas where only one wet season crop
is grown, EAs would concentrate on growing vegetables or other crops using



- 16 -
available water or moisture in the dry season. Growing fruit, mushrooms,
cashew nuts, making compost, etc., are other likely activities, already
promoted and instituted under the first extension project.
3.09      One HEA would be stationed in each district and she would organize
and regularly visit Farm Women's Clubs in the villages. The HEA's would mainly
impart information on backyard vegetable and fruit production, food preserving
and meal preparation, with the aim of providing a balanced diet for farm
families and for improving overall sanitary standards. HEAs would also work
with the Rural Youth Clubs (people up to the age of 25 years) and in particular
with the girls and young women. All HEAs would coordinate their work with
personnel of the Community Development Department with regard to family
health care, sewing clothes for the family, the development of cottage
industries and other related family activities. Improved local coordination
would ensure that the activities of the HEAs and the Community Development
Workers do not overlap.
Fellowships and Overseas Training
3.10      The project would provide a fellowship and training program to
improve the quality of extension staff, particularly that of the SMSs, but
also that of some EAs and supervisory staff. This program would award
2-3 fellowships per annum for higher degree studies at overseas universities,
and a further 10 SMSs per year would follow specific subject matter courses
of about 6 months' duration in neighboring countries. Candidates would be
selected for such programs as the rice production and multiple cropping
courses at the International Rice Research Institute in the Philippines,
training courses of the International Crops Research Institute for the
Semi-Arid Tropics in India and the vegetable production training course
conducted by the Asia Vegetable Research and Development Center in the
Republic of China. Recipients of long-term fellowships would be obligated to
remain in government service for twice the duration of their fellowships, in
accordance with present regulations. A further 120 extension personnel would
participate in short-term group study tours to Asian countries (such as the
Philippines, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and the Republic of China). These
study tours would be provided for promising extension workers to observe
innovative and successful farm practices and extension work.
Regional Training Centers
3.11      Two new Regional Training Centers would be constructed under the
proposed project in the eastern and upper southern regions. All other
regions would have adequate medium-term training facilities for extension
field staff at existing centers or at those constructed under the first
extension project. These facilities would serve both as the administrative
and training center for the region. Each center would include classroom
accommodations for about 60 students, office accommodations for all training
staff, regional supervisory staff and regional SMSs. The regional center
complex would further have two houses and two 5-unit apartments for staff
housing. The training and administrative building would be furnished and
equipped. When completed, these centers, supplemented by the university
system for specific technical course requirements, would provide adequate
training facilities for DAE staff in all provinces. The centers would also
be used to train contact farmers, special groups of seed growers, leaders of
Farmers' Associations, etc., on an ad hoc basis.



- 17 -
Extension Centers and Housing
3.12      Thirty-nine combined Provincial and District Extension Centers and
271 District Extension Centers would be constructed under the proposed
project. Each Provincial Extension Center would contain about 350 sq m of
floor space and would provide office accommodation for about 20 provincial
extension staff, a meeting hall, and storage facilities for t~raining and
delaonstraLion material. District Extension Centers would provide an area of
about 150 sq m, including office space for about four district staff, a
meeting room, and storage space for extension field equipment and materials.
In addition, some 310 housing facilities would be constructed for*EAs each
consisting of three staff apartments with two bedrooms each. The apartment
complexes would be located central to the three subdistricts or to the area
served by the three EAs. All project buildings would be constructed to
standardized designs. A thorough review of existing facilities would take
place to see if these could be suitably repaired or altered for project use
before any decision is taken on new construction. At project completion, each
of the 39 project provinces and each of the 323 districts in those provinces
would be served by adequate extension facilities.
Vehicles and Equipment
3.13      Each of the 2,300 EAs, all 325 HEOs, and all Assistant DEOs in the
proposed project provinces would be given the opportunity to obtain a motorcycle
on a hire-purchase agreement to assure the mobility required to meet the
schedule of field visits and training (para. 3.06). Regional, Provincial and
District Extension Offices would be provided with a total of about 470
vehicles, including 410 light pick-up trucks for areas reasonably well served
by roads, 20 four-wheel drive vehicles for more remote areas with difficult
terrain, and 42 minibuses (15 seats) to transport personnel to training
sessions, field days, etc. These vehicles would be used to transport training
personnel and materials, and experiment and demonstration equipment, inputs
and materials. Six sedans for headquarters staff and consultants would also
be included in the proposed project. Government workshops, which are available
in most of the districts, would be used for maintenance and repair of all
project vehicles and equipment, and would be supplemented by private workshops
where necessary. An assurance was obtained that the RTG would make motorcycles
financed under the proposed project available to DAE Extension Agents and
other eligible staff under a hire-purchase scheme, which was introduced under
the first extension project and which is satisfactory to the Bank. Basic
furniture and equipment would be provided for the Regional Training Centers
and Provincial and District Extension Centers to be constructed under the
proposed project, and for existing centers where they are lacking (Annex 2,
Table 3). A desk computer with auxiliary equipment and software would be
procured to improve the administration and the analysis of data with regard
to personnel, staff training experiments and trials, crop area and crop
yields, produce prices, etc. An offset printer with collating and strapping
facilities would be purchased for the in-house production of trainlt-g reeds
and publications for extension personnel and the farming community.
Design and Construction
3.14      A local engineering firm with expertise in architecture would be
employed to assist DAE in site surveys, preparation of tender documents and



- 18 -
contracts, and supervision of construction of all project works. This arrange-
ment has been effective in the first extension project. Project buildings
would be constructed to standard designs to the extent possible. Sufficient
suitable government land is available, and an assurance was obtained that the
Government would make this land available to the proposed project six months
before construction is scheduled to commence.
Implementation Schedule
3.15      Project implementation would be phased over a five-year ,erod
commencing in Thai fiscal year 1980 (commencing October 1, 1979).  Each
year, a total of ten provinces would be provided with the new extension
services. All required staff would be appointed and trained, all necessary
centers and houses constructed, and all furniture and equipment procured in
accordance with the phasing in of provinces under the proposed project. The
coverage of the first extension project (Loan 1393-TH) would be completed in
1980 when the last eight provinces would be incorporated under that project.
To provide continuity in the extension of the new services, the proposed
project would incorporate another two provinces in 1980 for which DAE has
already requested an adequate budget allocation. The last 7 provinces would
be incorporated under the proposed project in 1984. The overall imple7ftenta-
tion schedule for project provinces is preso:::d ia Table 3.1 (page 19).
3.16      Complete extension services for an entire province, which include
staff appointments in April, initial staff training (para. 4.24), the construc-
tion and procurement program, and regular ill-service staff training and farm
visits, would commence in the year of inclusion in the proposed project
as shown in Chart 20112. This would ensure uniformity of service throughout
the province from the year of inclusion onwards. New staff would be appointed
and trained in advance of commissioninlg new extension centers. To ensure that
support activities for the extension program are planned and coordinated with
the construction program, DAE would prepare detailed annual implementation
schedules which would be reviewed by Bank supervision missions.
Cost Estimates
3.17      Total project costs are estimated at $70.0 million, of which $22.0
million or 31% is foreign exchange. Construction estimates are based on
recent bids for similar buildings outside the metropolitan area of Bangkok.
Costs for adapting existing designs to the available sites and for construction
supervision are based on Budget Bureau guidelines (4.5% of construction
costs). Cost estimates for vehicles, equipment and furniture are based on
recent contract awards.  Incremental operating costs, including salaries for
new staff positions and operating and maintenance costs of project buildings
and equipment, are included in the proposed project costs. Salaries are
based on those current in the 1979 Thai fiscal year and include appropriate
housing, transport and subsistence allowances (Annex 2, Table 9). All prices
are expressed at June 1979 levels. Taxes of $4.2 million or 6% of project
costs are included. Physical contingencies of 10% are included for civil
works, furniture, demonstration plot materials and equipment because of: the
large number and the wide geographic spread of centers and houses to be built;
the need to allow some flexibility in meeting the requirements of the different



- 19 -
Table 3.1:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE i_
Number of Provinces
Calendar Year                                       Loan      Proposed   Tocal
Region               1980            1981            1982              1983              1984          1393-TH   project   Thailand
Upper North            Chiang Rai  Mae Mong Son                                                               2           6          8
Payao        Nan
Lamphun
Phrae
Lower North                                          Kamphaeng Phet                                           5          4           9
Tak
Phetchabun
Uttaradit
Upper Northeast                                      Loei                                                     3          5           8
Nakhon Phanom
Udon Thani
Nong Khai
Sakon Nakhon
Lower Northeast                                      Surin                                                    6          2           8
Maha Sarakham
Central                                                                  Nonthaburi         Bangkok           5          4           9
Pathum Thani
Ayutthaya
West                                Phet Buri                                                                 4          4           8
Kanchanaburi
Samut Sakhon
Samut Songkhram
East                                                 Chanthaburi         Trat               Nakhon Nayok    3            5           8
Rayong
Samut Prakan
Upper South                                                              Phangnga           Ranong            2          5           7
Krabi              Chumphon
Phuket
Lower South                                                              Satun                                3          4           7
Trang
Yala
Narathiwat
Provinces (no.)              2             10               10                10            7                33         39         72
Districts (no.)             18             83               93                76           53               363        323        686
Subdistricts (no.)        121             643              711              647           379             3,171      2,501      5,672
Villages (no.)          1,403           5,689            7,463            4,382         2.300            29,096    21,237      50,333
Farm families ('000)    288               618              758               396          227             2,745      2,287      5,032
/a See Map 12068R.



- 20 -
centers; and the different types of extension, training, and experimental
equipment and materials required for the various agricultural enterprises in
the provinces. Expected price increases due to inflation amount to about 19%
of total project costs and assume the following annual inflation rates:
Annual Inflation Rate (%)
Category                         1980   1981  1982  1983-84
Civil works                                12      10     9     8
Equipment, services & incremental
operating costs (excl. salaries)          7      7      7     7
Salaries                                    5       5     5     5
3.18      Details of project costs, including the buildup of incremental
operating costs, are presented in Annex 2 and are summarized below:
Foreign
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total exchange
--- (Baht million) --  ---- ($ million) ----  -  (%) -
Civil works                 302     162      464    15.1      8.1   23.2        35
Vehicles, equipment &
materials                  76     126      202      3.8     6.3   10.1       62
Training and consultants   36         18      54      1.8     0.9    2.7        34
Incremental operating
costs                    332       30      362    16.6      1.5   18.1        8
Base cost estimate          746     336   1,082    37.3    16.8   54.1          31
Physical contingencies       36      22       58      1.8     1.1    2.9        41
Expected price increases  178        82      260      8.9     4.1   13.0        31
Total project cost          960     440   1,400    48.0    22.0   70.0          31
3.19      The estimated operating costs of the extension service in the 39
project provinces (at constant June 1979 price levels) for pre- and postproject
situations are shown below:
Preproject   Postproject   Incremental
Ö -------_____-- ($ '000)      Ö
Staff                                   5,500         10,300         4,800
Annual operating costs /a               2,600          6,200         3,600
Replacement of capital investment         500          2,400         1,900
Total                             8,600         18,900        10,300
/a Includes the operation and maintenance of buildings, vehicles, and
equipment, cost of supplies and materials, and general headquarters
overheads.



- 21 -
Financing
3.20      The proposed Bank loan of $40 million, equivalent to 57% of total
project costs inclusive of taxes would cover the foreign exchange requirement
of $22 million and $18 million or about 38% of the local cost of the
project. The RTG would provide the remaining $30 million, including about
$18 million in incremental operating costs. An assurance was obtained that,
afte. project completion, RTG would continue to make adequate funds available
to enable DAE to pursue the (a) operation of extension services and other
activities introduced or established under the project; (b) proper operation
and maintenance of all project equipment, vehicles, buildings, and facilities;
and (c) employment of staff engaged under the project. Annual operating
costs for DAE attributable to the two extension projects would amount to
about $21 million (constant June 1979 prices) upon project completion; this
would be equal to about 5% of MOAC's total budget for FY79.
Procurement
3.21      Contracts for the construction of the two Regional Training Centers
(about $240,000 each), the 39 combined Provincial and District Extension Centers
(about $120,000 each), the 271 District Extension Centers (about $40,000
each) and about 310 apartment complexes (about $21,000 each), with a total
cost of about $23 million, would not be suitable for international competi-
tive bidding because individual buildings are small and dispersed, both
geographically and over time. These contracts would be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with government
procedures that are satisfactory to the Bank. There is adequate competition
among local contractors for works of this kind and size. Foreign firms would
be allowed to bid. Assurances were obtained that all civil works would be
grouped, to the extent practicable, into appropriate contract packages with a
value of $100,000 or more, to permit efficient execution and supervision.
In provinces where it is difficult to obtain suitable bids because of security
and/or isolation, limited competitive bidding, in accordance with local proce-
dures which requires three price quotations from reputable construction
firms where possible, would be allowed.
3.22      Under the proposed project, DAE would be responsible for the
procurement of vehicles and equipment under the project. Standard items to
be purchased in volume, including about $4.9 million worth of vehicles and
$2.5 million of equipment and materials, would be grouped in large tender
packages (averaging about $250,000) and procured following international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference
margin limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the prevailing
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in
the evaluation of bids. The procurement of motorcycles, which are to be
made available to EAs and HEAs on a hire-purchase agreement satisfactory to
the Bank, would allow the beneficiaries a choice from three standard models
of motorcycles in the range of 75-150 cc which attracted the lowest acceptable
bids. To permit flexibility, items costing less than $15,000 each, but not ex-
ceeding $500,000 in total, would be procured on the basis of prudent local
shopping, including a minimum of three price quotations from reputable
suppliers if possible. Specialized items to be purchased in small quantities



- 22 -
(such as materials and equipment for field experiments and home economics
and small items of audio-visual aids and office equipment) worth a total of
about $0.8 million, and furniture worth a total of about $0.4 million, would
be purchased following local competitive bidding procedures. A complete
equipment list is presented in Annex 2, Tables 3 and 4.
Disbursements
3.23      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment, materials and furniture; 100%
of the ex-factory price of such items manufactured locally, and 65% of
total expenditures for items procured locally. For consulting services,
overseas training and fellowships, disbursements would be at the rate of 100%
of total cost. Disbursements for civil works would be at 74% of total
expenditures, submitted by DAE after certification by the consulting firm.
It is expected that disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1985.
An estimated schedule of expenditure and a semiannual disbursement schedule
are given in Annex 3.
Accounts and Audit
3.24      Assurances were obtained that DAE would maintain a consolidated
project account covering all proposed project expenditures at headquarters,
regional and provincial levels, that auditors satisfactory to the Bank would
be employed to audit such accounts annually, and that the audited financial
statements together with the auditor's comments would be sent to the Bank
within six months of the close of each financial year.
4.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      The proposed project would be implemented by the DAE (see Chart
19527). Under the first extension project, the headquarters divisions were to
be organized into three functional services - administrative, technical and
professional support, and extension - each of which have three divisions. The
first service was to be headed by a Senior Administrative Officer and the
latter two by Deputy Directors General. However, MOAC was unable to establish
the position of Senior Administrative Officer and the two Deputy Directors
General continued to divide the responsibilities for the nine divisions
between them (four administrative to five technical and professional divisions).
Extension operations in the field continued to function through the REOs who
reported directly to the Director General.
4.02      Under the proposed project, this functional organization under two
Deputy Directors General would continue, but a third position of Deputy
Director General for Extension Operations and Training would be created. The
continual expansion of DAE entitles it to three Deputy Directors Generals,
and the Director General has initiated proceedings to establish the third
post. An assurance was obtained that the position of Deputy Director General
for Extension Operations and Training would be established and maintained and
that the position would be filled by December 31, 1979. The person appointed
would be responsible for implementing and supervising the nine regional exten-
sion services through the respective Regional, Provincial and District Extension
Officers. He would further be responsible for a new Training Division; this
division is already a functional unit in the Planning and Special Projects
Division but needs to be officially established through a Royal Decree, which



- 23 -
is expected to be promulgated by March 31, 1980. An assurance was obtained
that DAE would establish a Training Division under the Deputy Director for
Extension Operations and Training by March 31, 1980.
4.03       To assist with the overall coordination of extension service in the
region and to advise the Regional Extension Officers with the establishment
and maintenance of a uniform extension system based on the Training and Visit
System throughout the 72 provinces of Thailand, the Director General intends
to establish, by March 31, 1980, an Office of Inspectors. A total of nine
Inspectors, one for each region, are expected to operate from this office and
they would be directly responsible to the Director General. A small office
would be established with a few administrative support staff and would be
headed by a middle level administrative officer.  The InspectorR -roild be
required to travel about 20 days/month throughout the provinces and districts
in their assigned regions. When required, the Deputy Directors General could
also request their services for special tasks in their divisions.  It was
agreed that DAE would establish proceclnres, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
coordination and a uniform implementation of a Training and Visits System of
agricultural extension on a nation-wide basis by March 31, 1980. The lines
of communication within the DAE are presented in Chart 19536. Adequate
office facilities would be available for all headquarters staff in 1980 on
completion of the new MOAC building in Bangkhen.
National Level
4.04       The Deputy Director General for Administrative Service would head
the Secretariat and the Personnel, Finance, and Planning and Special Proieotts4
Divisions. The Secretariat would handle the correspondence and administrative
matters of all domestically financed projects. The Personnel Division would
plan staff requirements and their deployment, and would recruit all incremental
project staff and evaluate their performance.  The Finance Division would ')
responsible for routine DAE accounts, procurement and disbursements. The
Planning and Special Projects Division would be mainly responsible for forward
planning under the proposed project and other specifically funded projects. A
Loan Administration Section would continue to handle all procurement and
disbursement under World Bank and other specific project loans.
4.05       The Deputy Director General for Technical and Professional Services
would head the Crop Promotion, Plant Protection, Seed Development, Agro-
Socioeconomic Development and Extension Communications Divisions. Senior
qualified SMSs would head sections dealing with major crops, and farm management
and mechanization in the Crop Promotion Division. They would guide and support
the regional and provincial SMSs, assisting them with their traininig prograi;Is
and supplying them with the latest technical information, from both local and
international sources. The Plant Protection Division would deal with pest,
disease and weed control problems. It would continue to monitor the incidence
of pests, diseases and harmful weed(s, and would control large-scale outbreaks
of pests and diseases through the Regional Pest Control Centers. The senior
specialists at headquarters would inform the SMSs at regional and provincial
levels of the latest pest, disease and weed control methods; thle ava.lahfli-
.c'ety and usefulness of chemicals; and the recommended rates and methods of



- 24 -
application. The deployment of the mobile pest control and training units in
the regions would be coordinated by the REOs. The Seed Development Division
would continue to direct and coordinate the operation of Seed Centers estab-
lished under a US Agency for International Development (USAID) loan. These
centers would multiply seed under contract with farmers, inspect crops, and
certify seeds of rice, corn, sorghum, groundnuts and mungbeans. By 1981, the
MOF would have taken over all commercial activities, such as contracting,
drying, storing and selling seed. The Seed Development Division would then
only be responsible for organizing seed schemes based on established needs
and for seed certification. The Agro-socioeconomic Development Division would
plan and coordinate all activities with regard to home economics, rural
youth, and Farmers' Associations. The Extension Communications Division
would be responsible for audiovisual aids, publications, exhibitions and
contests, and general public relations.
4.06      The Deputy Director General for Extension Operations and Training
would be responsible for all operational aspects of the nine regional exten-
sion services. He would ensure that extension supervisors at all levels
adhere to the required field supervision and training of EAs which would
contribute to uniform execution of the Training and Visit System throughout
Thailand. The new Training Division would plan, coordinate and assist with
the execution of in-service training programs for all categories of extension
staff.
Regional Level
4.07      The REO in each of the nine regions would direct and supervise all
agricultural extension and training activities in the provinces under his
jurisdiction. He would be directly responsible to the Deputy Director General
for Extension Operations and Training for operational aspects and would be
assisted by two deputies, one mainly for administrative aspects and one for
extension supervision in the provinces. The REO would remain administratively
responsible for the Pest Control Centers, but technical support and supplies
would be provided by the Crop Protection Division. In each of the regions
there would be eight highly specialized senior SMSs for the major crops and
services. The Regional Training Officer would be in charge of the Regional
Training Center and would report to the REO. A small administrative unit
would complete the regional extension office. The regional operating
budget would be allocated directly from DAE in Bangkok.
Provincial Level
4.08      The PEO, aided by an assistant (or by two where there are nine or
more districts in the province), would be responsible for all extension
activities in the province. He would supervise and direct the activities of
all SMSs, whose specialization would depend on the province's farm activities.
He would further supervise a provincial training unit. This unit, consisting
of a Provincial Training Officer and two assistants, would organize all
in-service training within the province and assist with the preparation or



- 25 -
requisition of all necessary extension aids, and with the conduct of field
days, demonstrations and exhibits. A small administrative staff would assist
the PEO and his technical staff. One Assistant PEO would guide and service
the DEOs and EAs, and he would ensure that they receive in-service training.
He would guide and supervise up to eight DEOs, who would in turn provide the
same support to EAs. In large provinces, the second Assistant PEO would
mainly assist the PEO in administrative matters.
4.09      The PEO would be administratively responsible to the provincial
government, and for technical matters, to the REO. The provincial extension
budget would continue to be allocated at four-monthly intervals by the Director
General of DAE through the Governor to the PEO. All correspondence on tech-
nical matters from the REO and headquarters would flow directly to the PEO,
who would pass it on to the Governor for information and formal approval when
required. Lines of command and coordination of extension services under the
proposed project are shown in Chart No. 19536.
District Extension Services
4.10      As under the first extension project, field level extension services
would be organized and directed from the District Extension Center by the DEO,
who would be assisted by a Deputy DEO. The DEO and Deputy DEO would spend
about 75% of their time in the field in their assigned districts, supervising
and guiding EAs on a regular basis, and the rest of their time would be
devoted to administrative duties and training programs. Each EA would be
responsible for extension activities in 8-10 villages (there are 5-14 villages
in a subdistrict) with about 1,000 farm families (para. 3.06). The number of
EAs assigned to a district would depend on the number of villages, the distance
and the difficulty of travel between the villages, and the homogeneity of
farming activities in the area. For example, where there are 14 villages in a
subdistrict, three EAs may be appointed to two such subdistricts and their
duties evenly divided between the villages; where only 5 or 6 villages are
located in a subdistrict, two such subdistricts may be combined under one EA.
The EAs would be agricultural generalists, trained in all farming subjects
relevant for their subdistricts.
4.11      The district HEA would be administratively responsible to the DEO,
but technically would be trained and supported by the SMSs in home economics
in the region or province. The duties of the HEA would be closely coordinated
with those of officers of the Department of Community Development operating in
the district.
4.12      SMSs from the province would handle the training of all district
extension personnel and would support them in their field work. The specia-
lization of SMSs would depend on the agricultural enterprises in the district.
They would plan demonstrations and experimental work in cooperation with
local research staff and the PEOs, DEOs and EAs. SMSs would divide their
time equally between training EAs and other staff, experiments and research
activities (including contact with research staff and institutions), and
assisting EAs (in solving problems, visiting farmers' fields and demonstra-
tion plots, and generally keeping in touch with the farm situation).



- 26 -
4.13      Initially only two SMSs would be appointed in each province, one for
general crop production and one for crop protection. A third would be added
in the third year of incorporation of the province under the project, and a
fourth SMS would be appointed the following year; at project completion
there would thus be at least four SMSs in each province. The specializations
of the two latter SMSs would depend on the specific requirements of the
province, but would generally include one SMS for a major crop or enterprise
such as rubber, cotton or horticulture, and one for a major service such as
farm mechanization or farm management.
Operational Methods
4.14      The EA, in cooperation with the village headman, would select ten
contact farmers in each village on the basis of: leadership, willingness to
adopt new technology and general influence among their neighbors. These
contact farmers would meet with the EA for at least one day every fortnight.
All EAs would use a variety of extension methods, such as simple demonstrations
of suitable techniques, comparison experiments, visits to farms where the
recommended techniques, varieties, fertilizer rates, etc., have been success-
fully used, and field days. Initially heavy reliance would be placed on
demonstration plots of one rai (0.16 ha) only, which would be strategically
located, mainly in the fields of contact farmers. These plots would be used
throughout the season to demonstrate the crops' progress to all contact
farmers and their neighbors. The extension service would supply all inputs
free of charge during the EAs first year in a subdistrict. In the second
year, only half the inputs would be free, and in the following years the EA
would generally only use for demonstrations the fields of farmers who follow
the extension recommendations correctly.
4.15      The EA would initially focus his extension activities on the most
important crop for the local farming community. He would further concentrate
on those cultural practices, methods of pest control, choice of varieties,
fertilizer sources and rates, and the timing of applications, etc., that would
have the greatest impact on the farmers' yield and income. EAs would then be
rapidly accepted as authorities in the field and would achieve considerable
standing in the community.
4.16      EAs would have few administrative duties.  They would keep a diary,
recording such information as place of visit, number of farmers met, problems
encountered, and specific recommendations made. The supervising DEO would
regularly check and initial the diaries of all EAs under his responsibility.
The DEO would take further action when required, e.g. when a serious pest
attack necessitates intervention by a Regional Pest Control Unit, when inputs
and credit are in short supply in the area, or when special measures have to
be implemented at the district or provincial level to repair flood damage.
4.17      Field extension personnel would be relieved of most of the miscel-
laneous statistical and regulatory duties they are now expected to perform,
but would continue to: (a) collect land-use and crop production statistics
based on sample harvests and farm interviews with village headmen; and (b)
recommend suitable seed growers and inspection of seed crops. Other regulatory
duties would be carried out by staff of the Seed Development and Plant Protec-
tion Divisions of DAE and by provincial and district administrative staff.



- 27 -
Annual Extension Programs
4.18      The Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives sets aTITI:lal agricultural
production targets, such as decreasing the areas of cassava and sugarcanle and
increasing the rice area and yield. Based on these targets, the Director
General of DAE, his deputies and technical advisors would prepare the main
extension targets for the service, taking into account the recommendatiolns of
the provincial Technical Advisory Panels (para. 4.21). Each province would
draft an annual provincial work plan using the recommendations from the
Technical Advisory Panel and taking into account the main national extension
targets and, in particular, the Minister's guidelines. The provincial work
plan would then be considered by the REO and his SMSs. All regions would
present their annual work programs to the head office in Bangkok, where these
would be discussed in a meeting with the REOs and Inspectors and receive
final approval of the Director General of DAE before each cropping season.
During program implementation, progress would be reviewed periodically
by the REO and the Inspector. Extension consultants would assist with
the preparation and execution of the annual programs and with the preparation
of annual progress reports.
Coordination with Other Agencies
4.19      National Coordinating Committee for Agricultural Extension.  As
under several other externally financed projects, the Government has estab-
lished a National Coordinating Committee for Agricultural Extension to
coordinate the implementation and extension activities of DAE under the
proposed project with related programs of other agencies (i.e. those that
affect the supply of inputs and irrigation water, the provision of credit,
produce marketing and land development). The Coordinating Committee is
chaired by the Under Secretary of State for Agriculture and includes represen-
tatives of concerned RTG agencies, including the Ministries of Finance,
Interior, and Commerce, the Budget Bureau, the NESDB, the Civil Service
Commission, the MOF, BAAC, the Royal Irrigation Department (RID), and the
Departments of Agricultural Technology, Livestock Development, and Land
Development in the MOAC. The Director General of DAE would present an annual
extension work program (para. 4.18) to familiarize participating agencies with
extension activities, which would lead to an exchange of views and improved
coordination, particularly with regard to budgetary appropriations and estab-
lishment of staff positions. The Committee meets twice a year, and in January
1978, had already reviewed and approved proposals for this project.
4.20      Provincial Agricultural Extension Coordinating Coimmittee.  At the
provincial level, formal coordination would be achieved through the estab-
lishment of a Provincial Agricultural Extension Coordinating Committee prior
to the province's inclusion in the proposed project. The provincial committee
would coordinate the activities of the provincial agricultural extension
service with those of other agriculture-related organizations in the province.
Similar coordinating committees have already been established in most provinces
incorporated under the first extension project and are generally working
well. The coordinating committee would meet prior to each cropping season
under the chairmanship of the Governor. Members would be drawn from the
important agriculture-related organizations in the province such as BAAC,



- 28 -
MOF, RID and other MOAC departments, cooperatives, and trade organizations.
Meetings would provide relevant information on all agricultural activities in
the province, would ensure a common understanding of each organization's
activities, and would thus lead to greater cooperation between agencies. An
assurance was obtained that the Provincial Agricultural Extension Committees
would be established and maintained when the province is brought under the
project.
4.21      Technical Advisory Panel.  As under the first extension project, a
Technical Advisory Panel would be formed in a province before its incorporation
under the proposed project. Members would be drawn from research, extension
and other related institutions in the province. The panels would meet after
the cropping season, when results from research, extension trials and demon-
strations are available. The Advisory Panel would evaluate the experimental
results and the overall crop performance in the area, and would prepare a
package of recommendations for the extension service for the following season.
The recommendations would be forwarded to the REO and, when necessary, to MOAC
for endorsement. When a need for further research has been established, a
recommendation for action would be forwarded to the relevant research insti-
tution. The Departments of Livestock Development and Fisheries do participate
already in joint extension activities in areas where extension responsi-
bilities overlap. In particular, they would continue to provide SMSs
from their departments to train and backstop DAE Extension Agents working
with families that have mixed farming enterprises. An assurance was obtained
that the Provincial Technical Advisory Panels would be established and
maintained when the province is brought under the project.
4.22      Extension groups in irrigated areas would be organized in tertiary
canal units that conform to the Water Users Association Groups formed by RID.
This arrangement would allow close coordination between RID and extension
personnel and would encourage better maintenance of irrigation and drainage
canals. To foster closer cooperation and to become familiar with other
agencies involved with farming activities in irrigated areas (RID, cooperatives,
BAAC, etc.), staff of these agencies would be invited to participate in
relevant technical instruction sessions for EAs (para. 3.07). In areas where
the Land Development Department or other project implementing agencies are
active, close cooperation with the relevant departments would be maintained,
and key staff would be invited to these training sessions as lecturers
or as participants.
4.23      When a special extension effort is needed in rural development and
irrigation projects, DAE would, following consultation with project imple-
mentation agencies, appoint and train all necessary staff and organize its
mode of operation to suit specific project requirements. On completion
of the development phase of such projects the regular extension service would
revert to the established project boundaries. To the extent possible, more
intensive, project-specific agricultural extension services would also be
funded from the regular DAE budget or from a specific project budget allocated
to DAE. Continued close cooperation between DAE and implementing project
agencies would thus be maintained, so that adjustments in the mode of operation
or in staffing ratios could be arranged when necessary.



- 29 -
Staffing
4.24      Existing, future and incremental staff requirements in the 39
provinces are shown in the following table:
Table 4.1: STAFF CONTLEMENT
Designation                           Present   Required   Incremental
Head office staff (professional grades)             175        190          15
Regional Extension Officers                           6          9           3
Deputy Regional Extension Officers                   12         18           6
Regional Training Officers                            6          9           3
Provincial Extension Officers                        38         39           1
Assistant Provincial Extension Officers              35         52          17
Subject Matter Specialists                          54         197         143
Provincial Training Officers                          -         39          39
Assistant Provincial Training Officers                -         39          39
District Extension Officers                         206        323         117
Assistant District Extension Officers              323         323           -
Extension Agents                                 1,113       2,287       1,174
Home Economics Agents                               85         323         238
Regional Technical and Administrative Staff           -         24          24
Total                                       2,053       3,872      1,819
4.25      Training officers at the regional and provincial levels would
function as administrative officers responsible for organizing technical
instruction sessions (paras. 3.07) and training programs (paras. 4.28 and
4.29) for staff members at various levels. Adequate support staff, such as
accountants, secretaries, clerks, typists, drivers and janitors, are generally
available in the regions, provinces and districts, but some tranisfers might be
required. The phasing of staff buildup is presented in Annex 2, Table 9.
Assurances were obtained that the Civil Service Commission would authorize
the required staff positions in line with the implementation of excteusion
services in the proposed project provitices. All staff positions required for
the first extension project provinces have already been authorized up to and
including the 1979 Thai fiscal year and adequate funds are being made avail-
able to fill them.
4.26      Candidates for SMS positions would be mainly selected frota lei
graduates of the five Thai universities with faculties of agriculture. In the
five-year period 1977-81, these universities are projected to have an annual,
output of 960 graduates with a bachelor's degree and about 175 with a na'si:ers
degree. In addition, a considerable number of graduates returning to Thailand
from overseas universities would be recruited. Only 40 additional SMSs at
most would be required each year, and it is therefore expected that sufficient
suitable candidates would be available.



- 30 -
4.27      EAs and HEAs are presently selected from graduates of vocational
schools with a five-year course. These schools have been established in all
regions, and their average output in the period 1977-81 is estimated at
about 850 per year. In addition, DAE has been able to recruit some school
teachers and other suitable candidates. If insufficient candidates with five
years' vocational training are available, recruits would be sought from
vocational schools with a three-year course; with in-service training, these
graduates would also make suitable EAs. The annual output of these schools is
about 1,600. DAE would attempt to attract candidates for EA and HEA positions
from persons with a rural background, and they would be placed in a locality
suitable to their background (ethnic and linguistic). DAE's largest annual
requirement would be for about 500 personnel at the second level of the Civil
Service grades, and it is expected that adequate candidates would be available
for such positions.
Staff Training
4.28      On appointment, all staff assigned to the proposed project would
undergo a two- to eight-week preservice orientation course in one of the
Regional Training Centers or another suitable training facility.  Lecturers
would be provided from the regular staff of the training centers and guest
lecturers would be drawn from MOAC, universities and other suitable institu-
tions when required. DAE's operations and its relationship with other depart-
ments and organizations would be explained and extension methodology taught in
detail.
4.29      Each EA and DEO would undergo about two weeks of annual in-service
training either in one of the Regional Training Centers or in the Provincial
Extension Centers. Courses for EAs would focus on the practical agricultural
problems faced by farmers in the region and, where feasible, technically
simple solutions to these problems. DEOs would spend more time on adminis-
trative problems and practices. The course material for all training sessions
would be summarized in illustrated handbooks, and training aids, such as
overhead projectors, movie projectors and cassette tape recorders, would be
used to convey the subject material to course participants more easily. Where
possible, trainees would participate in demonstrations to gain a better
appreciation of the work involved.
4.30      SMSs would attend an orientation course followed by several technical
courses. Particular attention would be given to presenting subject matter in
such a way that it can be easily assimilated by EAs during their fortnightly
instruction sessions. Course participants would be divided into groups by
specialization for technical training programs. The first technical training
courses would last about one month.
4.31      Provincial Training Officers and their assistants would draw up
regular training rosters, select and engage lecturers, and ensure that
appropriate training aids would be available. They would further ensure that
other interested personnel would be invited to training sessions of common
interest; interested personnel might include officers from RID, the Land
Development Department, the Livestock Development Department, sugar extension
officers from sugar mills, and tobacco extension officers.



- .I -
4.32      The USAID is providing technical assistance and materials in
support of the DAE training program. The USAID loan is also financing the
employment of consultants to assist DAE in preparing curricula, handbooks,
manuals, and films for training courses. The present consultants under the
program will serve until early 1981. In addition, the printing of the
required course materials is part of the USAID loan.
Consultants
4.33      Agricultural Extension.  As under the first extension project, DAE
would engage an agricultural consulting firm to assist with implementation of
the proposed project. The firm would provide a team leader experienced in
agricultural extension to assist in overall project implementation at DAE
headquarters, and six extension consultants to serve as advisors to the REOs.
The present consultant team leader has been engaged until mid-1981, and he or
his replacement would be required under the proposed project until June 30,
1983.  The present regional consultants for the Upper Northern, Lower N4orth-
eastern, Central and Lower Southern Regions have been engaged until the end of
1981. Under the proposed project, each of the six regions (old boundaries)
would be provided with an additional two years of services by an extension
consultant. Based on present consulting contracts, the cost per man-month
inclusive of local costs, is estimated at $5,000 for local consultants and at
$8,000 for expatriate consultants. Annex 2, Table 7 lists requirements for
local and expatriate extension consultants. An assurance was obtained that a
firm of consultants would be engaged to provide the services of a team leader
and six extension specialists on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
4.34      To assist DAE with specific crop husbandry problems and with
specialized staff training programs, 15 man-months of short-term consultant
services would be provided. Consultants would participate in extensive
lecture and demonstration tours in areas where their special services are
required.
4.35      Civil Works.  A local firm of engineering consultants was engaged by
DAE under Loans 1198T-TH and 1393-TH to assist in the survey, design, contract-
ing and supervision of construction of project civil works throughout the
project provinces. DAE again intends to engage an engineering Fir,a Foc the
proposed project's civil works program for efficiency and speed of imple-
mentation. Assurances were obtained that DAE would employ an engineering
firm, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to carry out site
surveys, adapt existing designs, assist with tendering and supervise the
construction of project buildings.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.36      Under the first extension project, DAE has begun a program of
project monitoring and evaluation through a special project monitoring unit
This unit is jointly supervised by the chiefs of the Division of Agricultural
Economics (under the Under Secretary of State for Agriculture and Cooperatives)
and the Planning and Special Projects Division in DAE, and it receives
technical and computer assistance from the National Statistics Office. A



- 32 -
consultant from the Australian Development Assistance Bureau visits Thailand
twice a year for about one month to assist with the design of questionnaires,
determining the sample size, and with the analysis and interpretation of data
from the annual surveys. A baseline survey was carried out in 1978 on a
sample of 0.04% of the farm families in 15 provinces. Under the proposed
project, further surveys would be conducted to establish the iulpae  o, ;lX-
tmproved extension service on production per unit area and on overall farm
income. The method of survey, the structure of the questionnaire, and the
method of data analysis would be determined in early 1980 following a thorough
review of results obtained with the moaitoring program under the first exten-
sion project. An assurance was obtained that DAE would arrange for project
monitoring and evaluation through procedures agreed with the Bank.
Environmental Effects
4.37      Extension personnel would be continiotiily trained to give advice
on appropriate chemicals for pest and vermin control, on maintenance of the
level of soil fertility, and on soil conservation practices. It is expected
that on balance the proposed project would have a beneficial effect on the
environment.
Role of Women
4.38      The proposed project would have considerable impact on women in the
farming communities served by the extension service. Traditionally, farmers'
wives have had considerable influence on thie decii.nr-making process for
general farm activities and, in particular, for the purchase of seeds and
other inputs. Women also form the main source of labor during planting,
weeding and harvesting and the introduction of new crop varieties and new crop
production technology could decrease their work load. The EAs and the HEAs
would therefore need to focus their efforts on the farmers' wives and other
women in rural communities. About 15-25% of the EAs and SMSs in province
would be women, and all HEAs would be women specifically train,e,l i-ul Ji\e ;I
I Li T .3   service in home economics.
5. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits
5.01      The proposed project would reach about 2.3 million farm families, who
cultivate some 3.1 million ha of rice (46% of Thailand's total), and abo,it
?23 million ha of other food, oil, fiber and vegetable crops.  Yields of most
crops are low and considerable increases could be achieved if farmers would
use available knowledge and inputs as is indicated by the relatively high
coefficients of variation between provincial crop yields (Annex 1, Table 4).
All farmers would stand to benefit from direct or indirect contact with
extension workers, who would convey the most practical and profitable advice
for their crop production enterprises. Total project costs would be about
$32 per farm family and $13.0 per ha.



- 33 -
5.02      It is not realistic to attempt to precisely quantify the proposed
project benefits since it is impossible to determine what proportion of the
expected beiaefits from improved agricultural practices are due to extension
alone, and what is due to additional purchased inputs, to a greater input of
labor by the farmer and his family, or to improved irrigation. In practice,
it is a combination of these which provide increased yiellds and farmer income,
with the extension service playing a catalytic role. The determination of
acceptance rates of recommended practices is also extremely difficult because
farmers often adopt part of the recommendations which meet their own par-
ticular situation.
5.03      Since the proposed project relies mainly on improving the organiza-
tion, management and quality of the extension service, and providing the means
to appoint, accommodate, and train all extension personnel, the increlreatal
annual operating costs at project comrtplelton are low at about $1.90 per ha
and $4.70 per farm family. A hypothetical rate of return calculation does
indicate the order of magnitude of benefits the proposed project would need
to generate. In order to realize a 15% economi-c ra,e of return, the incremen-
tal net value of production due to the proposed project would have to amount
to about US$22.5 million per year by the eighth year (1988) of project
development, assuming a gradual buildup of project benefits from 20% in year
three to 100% in year eight (Annex 4, Table 1). This translates to an
incremental production value of $4.20 per ha for all crops on a total area of
5.4 million ha from 1988 onwards. For paddy, which is grown on 59% of the
proposed project area, the incremental production would have to reach aboult
30,450 tons, or about 26 kg/ha (based on an average 1978 economic price for
paddy of $165/ton) (Annex 4, Table 2). The present national average yield of
paddy is 1.8 tons/ha, and the annual growth rate for paddy yields between the
period 1959-61 to 1973-75 was 0.6% (Annex 1, Table 4). Continuing this trend,
the average paddy yield in 1988 would be 1,888 kg/ha, while the yield potential
with present varieties and cultural practices of rainfed paddy is estimated at
2.2 tons/ha (Annex 4, Table 3). An increase of only 26 kg/ha, or ant wverage
yield of 1,914 kg/ha by 1988, would mean a growth rate of 0.8% p.a. and this
should be relatively easy to obtain on rainfed paddy using present knowledge
and limited inputs. Even greater yields would be possible if required inputs
were available at reasonable prices. If all benefits were to be derived from
paddy growing alone, a yield increase of 43 kg/ha by 1988 would be necessary,
which is equivalent to a growth rate of 0.9% per year. Even a yield increase
of this magnitude would be relaLively easy to obtain in areas where farmers
would make use of the extension message, which would concentrate on using
improved crop varieties, correct methods of establishing optimum plant
stands, optimum rates of fertilizers and pest control chemicals, and improved
C-rOyJ husbandry techniques.  Since many farmers grow two crops per year in
irrigated areas, upland crops on nonpaddy soils, or secondary crops following
the main crop, the potential benefit from improved extension activities is
considerably greater than that assumed for paddy alone.
5.04      Although it is difficult to evaluate precisely how the proposed
project benefits would be distributed, the poorest farmers stand to gain the
greatest relative benefits from the project.  In the past, extensio,t -ar4Jces



- 34 -
have been provided mainly on request; typically, the better educated and more
affluent farmers, who have better contacts and capital to invest in inputs,
have availed themselves of these services to a much greater extent than have
the mass of poorer smallholders. As the proposed project is designed to
reach all smallholders in the project provinces, no matter how remote from
provincial and district capitals, the gap in productivity between smallholders
and better educated farmers should be narrowed.
5.05      Aside from the national economic benefits to Thailand, the proposed
project would contribute to improving the world foodgrain situation. Thailand
has long been a major exporter of rice to the food-deficit regions of Asia,
and has become a major exporter of animal feed products (chiefly maize and
casssava products) to developed countries. However, the country has scarcely
begun to make full use of its abundant land and water resources for intensive
agricultural production. In the absence of large world food reserves or
large reserves of agricultural land that could rapidly be broughnt into
production, a project aimed at increasing the productivity of Thai agriculture
could make a small but important contribution to the world's food supply.
Risks
5.06      With a relatively low investment and annual operating cost per
family, which could be easily justified even with a modest increase in yields,
the risks associated with this proposed project relate mainly to the rate and
degree to which extension recommendations would be adopted by farmers. These
variables would therefore come under continuous, close scrutiny during project
implementation as part of the monitoring and evaluation program (para. 4.36),
and by frequent Bank supervision missions (at four monthly intervals under the
first project). Excessive bureaucratic activities resulting in nonextension
activities would be continually guarded against.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following principal points:
(a)  the Government would make motorcycles, financed under the project
available to DAE Extension Agents and other eligible staff under
procedures satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.13);
(b)  the Government would make land available to the proposed project
six months before construction of buildings is scheduled to commence
(para. 3.14);
(c)  the Government would, after project completion, continue to make
adequate funds available to enable DAE to continue the (i) operation
of extension services and other activities introduced or established
under the project; (ii) proper operation and maintenance of all
project equipment, vehicles, buildings and facilities; and (iii)
employment of staff engaged under the project (para. 3.20);



- 35 -
(d) procurement would be in accordance with procedures detailed in
paras. 3.21 and 3.22;
(e) DAE would maintain a consolidated project account covering all
expenditures at headquarters and provincial levels, and auditors
satisfactory to the Bank would be employed to audit these accounts
annually. Audited financial statements together with the auditor's
comments would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close of
each financial year (para. 3.24);
(f) the position of Deputy Director General for Extension Operations and
Training would be established and maintained and the position would
be filled by December 31, 1979 (para. 4.02);
(g) DAE would establish and maintain a Training Division under the
Deputy Director General for Extension Operations and Training and
this division would be established by March 31, 1980 (para. 4.02);
(h) DAE would establish procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
coordination and a uniform implementation of a Training and Visit
System of agricultural extension on a nation-wide basis by March
31, 1980 (para. 4.03).
(i) Provincial Agricultural Extension Committees and Provincial Tech-
nical Advisory Panels would be established and maintained when the
province is brought under the project (paras. 4.20 and 4.21).
(j) the Civil Service Commission would authorize the required new staff
positions in line with the implementation of extension services in
the proposed project provinces (para. 4.25);
(k) a firm of consultants would be engaged to provide the services
of a team leader and six regional extension specialists on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.33);
(1) DAE would employ an engineering firm to carry out site surveys,
adapt existing designs, assist with tendering and supervise con-
struction of project buildings, on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank (para. 4.35); and
(m)  DAE would arrange for project monitoring and evaluation to be
carried out through procedures agreed with the Bank (para. 4.36).
6.02      The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of $40 mil-
lion, with a 20-year maturity and a grace period of 5 years. The Borrower
would be the Kingdom of Thailand.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Table I
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Provincial Distribution of Project Beneficiaries
Farm
Region              Province                District   Subdistrict   Villages         families
Number ------------   No. x '000
Upper North         Mae Hong Son                5             30            251           20.7
Chiangrai                 18            121          1,403          287.7
Payao
Lamphun                    6             43            351           55.7
Phrae                      7             60            390           65.5
Nan                        9             65            588           57.9
Subtotal            45            319          2,983          487.5
Lower North          Lttaradit                  8             56            395           58.1
Tak                        8             49            379           35.4
Kamphaeng Phet             7             44            428           71.1
Phetchabun                 8             77            727          101.1
Subtotal            31            226          1,929          265.7
Upper Northeast   Loei                         10             63            568           64.4
Nong Khai                  9             63            717           75.6
Udon Thani                20            131          1,627          175.6
Sakon Nakhon              13             85            905           84.0
Nakhon Phanom             15            108          1,097           77.1
Subtotal            67            450          4,914          476.7
Lower Northeast   Surin                        12            102          1,417          125.9
Maha Sarakham             10             90          1,225          111.0
Subtotal            22            192          2,642          236.9
Central Plain       Ayutthaya                  16            206          1,455           72.1
Phathumthani               7             57            510           28.7
Nonthaburi                 6             47            393           41.2
Bangkok                   24            150            549           49.1
Subtotal            53            460          2,907          191.1
West                Kanchanaburi               10             78            490           65.9
Samut Songkhram            3             35            273           24.0
Samut Sakhon               3             38            270           19.6
Phetchaburi                7             78            544           48.6
Subtotal            23            229          1,577          158.1
East                 Samut Prakan               4             48            459          45.0
Nakhon Nayok               4             37            370           25.5
Rayong                     6             43            232           43.3
Chanthaburi                6             59            510           38.5
Trat                       5             32            178           22.8
Subtotal            25            219          1,749          175.1
Upper South          Phangnga                   8            46             270           21.4
Krabi                      6            41             277           27.6
Ranong                     4            25             122           10.3
Chumphon                   8            59             476           44.3
Phuket                     3            17              92            9.3
Subtotal            29            188          1,237          112.9
Lower South          Satun                      6             27            216           18.6
Trang                      6             79            467           53.5
Yala                       5             49            256           33.2
Narathiwat                11             63            360           77.3
Subtotal            28            218          1,299          182.6
Project Total    323            2,501         21,237        2,286.6
Ratio                 1           7.7
1            8.5
1        107.7
1                       914



THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Farming Area, Land Tenure and Number of Holdings in 1975/76 /a
Owned             I                Rented               I         Owned and Rented          I
Agro-   Total area I % of    average                 I% of         average                 I     of      average
climatic  farm land I total   farming   holdings  I total           farming    holdings  I total          farming   holdings  I Other
Province          Region            zone    ('000 ha) I area        (ha)       (no)     I area          (ha)         (no)     I area         (ha)        (no)    1('000 ha)
1. Chiangrai      Upper North  { 10          351         78       2.80        98,023       0.3        2.56             404       10.5      2.75         13,540     39.0
2. Payao
3. Mae Hong San                    10          21        79       1.02        16,239  1   5.1         2.33             460  1   14.4        2.42         1,241  1   0.3
4. Lamphun                         10         51      1  73       1.26        29,762  1   2.3          1.14          1,040  1   11.0        1.05         5,382  1   6.7
5. Phrae                            9         80      1 67        1.79        30,199  1    -           -                -   1   14.5        1.96         5,949  1  14.7
6. Nan                              9          87        77       2.23        29,815  1    -           -                     1    8.1       3.34         2,107  1  13.4
7. Tak            Lower North       8         88      1  77       3.14        21,439  1    -           -                    1   20.5        3.61         5,000  1   2.4
8. Kamphaeng Phet                   6         269        73       6.40        30,617  1   1.4         4.31             880  1   18.8        7.02         7,207  1  18.4
9. Phetchabun                       6        525      1  77       5.80        69,341  1   4.9         4.34           5,876  1   13.0        6.07        11,236      28.9
10. Uttaradit                        9         175     1 70        3.38        36,287  1   0.1         3.24              65  1    4.8        3.82         2,212  1 43.8
11. Loei           Up. North East  6           137      1 84       3.88        29,853  1    -           -                -         0.4       2.39           240  1  21.0
12. Nong Khai                        1         289      1 92       4.37        60,817  1    -           -                -   I    1.4        2.33         1,715  1  18.9
13. Udon Thani                       1        810       1  92      4.96       150,898  1   0.1          1.47            542  1    5.1        5.38         7,715  1  18.9
14. Sakon Nakhon                     1         404      1  90      4.35        83,891  1   0.1         2.54             261  1    4.8        4.68         4,157  1  19.8
15. Nakhon Phanom                    1        335       1  93      3.45        90,341  1    -           -                -         2.3       2.70         2,899  1  15.4
16. Maha Sarakham Lo. North East  3           465       1  75      5.45        63,658  1                -                -         4.5       4.93         4,241  1  97.0
17. Surin                            4         528      1  75      4.96        79,381  1    -           -                -   I    9.7        5.21         9,831  i  83.0
18. Ayutthaya      CernLral Plain  11         227       1  18      4.79         8,379  1  13.7         6.14           5,070  1   53.2        6.73        17,948  1  35.0
19. Pathumthani                     11         139      1   9      4.68          2,704  1  59.5        6.72          12,267  1   21.3        6.66         4,438  1  13.9
20. Nonthaburi                      11          40      1  49       2.09         9,494  1  19.2         3.59          2,162  1   26.6        6.03         1,784  1   2.1
21. Bangkok                         11          71      1  18       3.39         3,845  1 46.7          4.99          6,649  1   28.4        5.85         3,448  1   4.6
22. Kanchanaburi  West              12         209      1  74       6.21        24,978  1   0.4         2.47            381  1   18.2        6.29         6,067  1  14.9
23. Phetchaburi                     12         152      1  53      3.18         25,269  1   0.4         2.26            248  1   42.0        5.47        11,624  1   6.9
24. Samutsongkram                   14          27      1  70       1.06        17,879  1   3.0         1.22            657  1   19.8        1.63         3,284  1   2.1
25. Samutsakhon                     14          54      1  32      4.60          3,778  1   8.0         4.18          1,032  1   58.4        6.44         4,872  1   0.7
26. Samutprahan   East              14          56      1 41        5.50         4,209  1  38.7         5.06          4,315  1   15.0        6.16         1,369       2.9
27. Nakhon Nayok                    11         148      1  26      6.32          6,242  1  14.8         6.28          3,496  1   42.6        8.38         7,542  1  23.7
28. Rayong                          15         153      1 81        5.32        23,310  1   0.6         6.36            134  1   14.6        6.49         3,437    15.6
29. Chanthaburi                     16         138      1  93       3.35        38,425  1   0.1         1.89             49  1    6.5        4.37         2,054  1   0.5
30. Trat                            16          64      1  98      5.88         10,773  1    -           -               -   I    1.9        3.53           341  1    _
31. Chumphon       Upper South    17           127      1  80       4.55        22,095  1   0.1         0.2              47  1   15.3        3.97         4,848  1   5.8
32. Ranong                          18          17      1  58       2.53         3,834  1   0.4         1.0              77  1   11.7        2.56           763  1   4.9
33. Phangnga                        18          75      1  73       5.86         9,394  1    -           -               -   1   12.6        5.20         1,826  1  10.6
34. Krabi                           18          95      1  95       5.14        17.589  1    -           -               -   I    1.5        3.82           373  1   3.6
35. Phuket                          18          24      1  58       3.32         4,220  1   0.5         0.7             162  1   19.1        2.82         1,631  1   5.4
36. Trang          Lower South    18           252      1 81        5.12        39,936  1    -           -               -   1   15.5        3.24        12,070  1   7.9
37. Satun                           18          50      1  90       3.05        14,678  1    -           -                         7.4       6.14           597  1   1.3
38. Narathiwat                      19         150      1  82      2.21         55,733  1   1.4         0.4             714  1   14.8        1.76        12,667  1   4.9
39. Yala                            19         119      1  91      4.16         25,988  1   0.4         0.3             240  1    7.4        1.85         4,791  1   2.3
7,002 /b  1                     1,293,313  1                            47,228  1                          192,446  1 601.2
/a Source: Division of Agricultural Economics in MOA.
/b  Total area cropped in 1976-77 was 5.34 million ha (Annex 1, Table 3) giving a cropping intensity of 76.3%.                                                               ,|
m IX



- 38-
TableD3
TRAbILElD
NATIONAL AGRICUL,TURAL EXTENSION DI PROJECT
Crop Area/a        ecetg   Di-irbostor, Averge  Yield ac   Standard  Deviation  Lb
of Xaje  C-apo  iv  39 Pr-iaoa
"egv   I an                    ddy  OUpl-od                                                                           C-astor.. Xa                                              Nagar                   Totul
provinces       rice      vice        eaiar    cravat~~~~~I-   eocgb-a     Cs-av     Dorgh-a   Soybea     be-        Seea.      egtal    Cote-          Tu-        van         tubber
tvnkhai                     128,473      3,791         410         DEN        308    04,194             2         91          4        119      .0667          64      1,530         213                  161,220
Idetai                       298,199       2,861    67.490    21208            641    04,2197          167        DON        172         244      5,200        6102   02.420    Oab46-                     46~6212
toka-  lal""-                200,106       1,111         480        475          40     01S              0          2          16        109        838        019         604        701                  200,4I
Nolk oh- avoa                163,173       2,359         207        900          2I     4,090           ID         3D         NO          4D     DA4O        1,00       3,7616      0,748                   63
rotaho-kl,-                  050,809         268          12        lAD           D   30,100             -          -           1        09       1971           I0    24,6             38          -       113
Ste-                         27,36,9                      9        .470         241      6,99            5          -          6         122      .66             4    lINSI          790           -      07.1
t-y                          28.191    150.71'0   68,'6'11       1,001      4,077         904           N      1,485        498       1,707      5,701      0,060       8,076         777                  I 43,162
Sobov-l (be          I 340,109    31.550   13T_748    1_0 096           3,604    96   45         199      1,099 j9                         J5~                    8   1       970              - I101
77     75.3         1.8        7,7        N.7         0.0        5.4        0.01        0.1       0.04         0.2         1.1        0.4       4.70         0.02
Acr-ge  yield  to/ai                1.69       1.78       1.90       0.90        0.93      10.03        1.37       1.06        1.07       NON5           -       1.40       1.04        30.3              
10.0.)           0.1        0.0         0.0        0.37        0.30        .b         0.1        0.40       0.06        0.1          /c         .41       0.3          7.7           --
Ihrvu<                  113,79u       1,30    101,614        5,5416    64,0E9         292    26,010    34.2110          906      0,374       9,04    10,11            101 ~      tII Y6-              501,044
ToN                           29.10        1060    1607             09           9,19        -           2     4,72          090         14      0,359          10           -        1,                      17 7
Ea-yh-eg Phe                  0070            8      14,907         472    17.097      12,504       1,000      4,060         206         007        605         Ill1         -    32,722694
Nuc             11,000    23,009    21~~~~~~~~~~~,70  9,OuII   0.404           4                    1603       502          IS     1224          64            -                                .03711
Phrac                  0~~~~~~     ~~3,910o  2,731    12,1:9  6,642   1,741        004                  3 ,306         90        910      2,722      5,120           6-                                .03
Uvo-.il                      102,0b6       5,287    10,960       13,636    12,471          351         IS0     3,896       1,062         718      1,929         174          -     10,31                   156023
06   nOO    6 Toy-  /  227,100      8,962    22.900        2,0           07       110            11      1,941         250        070      .,404         140        164      1,73                       .00
L-nph-                        33,561         696        400       1,900      0.043         109           -        3603          -         72     6,900           07          -        330674
Ou-hcv- n                   1,49    1168            1,7          ,4            0         21                    ,57            3        5a       D944         273          32         I
Subecrl 101            78_  512    56,011   350,791    07,605 0 3',617i.    15,227    28 29              5  388~   0336          6700      34,881    l280            307    42,7 3,4,5
(TI            00.0        0.7       20.1         2.4      6O7D          1.0       1.83        0.00        0.0        0.4         2.0        0.8       0.02         0.                   -----
An--ug   yield (,.onh.)            0.65        2.10       2-u8        1.40       0.85      10.06        2.79       1.27       0.00        0.68           -       1.39       1.12      66.7
(S.D.)           0.27       0.40        0.10       0.30        0.11       0.00       0. 77       0.04       0.ID        0.10           r      0. 31       0.06       18.
Oy.ttbu-                     208,036            -        000        118      2,644           2                     32D         -         217       8001           -         10           8                212.323
Tumonh-ahi                    97,06            -                      -        207          21           -          -                      -        499           -                     -           -       7263
.,N-tlhbcn i                  24,710          0 2          -           7          -           I                           - -              -        '55           -          --                            25,209
Raogkck                       69,390            -          -         1 4         10        101                      3                      -     1,1 76           -          -        149           -      71,247
vubontl 1 ISp           399,6800         32        5006        13 9     2,061         125           -         35          -        217    _390~1          --           10        100           -    407 09 5
IT            98.2            -      0.13        2.03        D. 7       0.03           -          -     -            0.06       0.82                       -       0.03           -          Wo0
Oeatyicl.1(cnIa               2.12         2.5       1.19       1.44        0.97      10.99           -       1.006                  0.64           -    -             0.30       04.4                  -      -
10.0.7           0.40           -           ..         -       0. 17      0.01-5I-                                                                                          
Ol,v..onb,:ar,i               017,271      1,464    116,427         220        1777     0,8201      1,008         506      1,900        0167     2,1 5       0,260           -   107,064            -     19 6:443
Ph Icavr                       1,l           980      6928          395      010           905          41        092        8I4          46      1,20         46-                  6,900                  I 2,2I
S___vvrkh_u                     1,629           -          -         40                     I 9          -                                           9                                                        ,~41
a-uv-kbv-                     26.,920 2                   34         21          ID        1720                                                  3 ,0621                                                   3  - - 00182
Ouvoraa-3017-- --                                                                            24          -          -                      -        660           -          .                             37,865
Noiva  h(t)       194'09        I_a49    18,009        1,17       2_902      4 276       1,049      1,198       2,700        813        8         LS2 0           -~  114j467            -     359_7217
(1)            54.0       0.96         5.1       0.02       0.02         1.4       0.09       0.0         0.07       0.23        2.07       1.50                 3 1.82           -          103
.OcaeyIeld  Ic-/3o7           2.15        1.74       2.25       2.62        0.80      19.08        1.60       1,19       I1.5        0.27           -       1.71           -      50.8                  - 
(O)     0.07            -      0.2        0.6         0.07        0.9            -          -          -           -         I                                     
DaOhnv NaYnk                 112,029           01       9218         60           -        863           -          6          -                    326 0                                           -      1I04
uRv-g                         04,442         142        426      4.113           00   114.171            -                                 -     1,30'7           -               2 08,22    41.896       24698
Cth-otbor-                    2'ObS          096      5.03       2,367         360    01,408          118         214         00         108        720        812           -        769    32,674        90,05
T-at                          10,295         010         231        483           -     9,497            -          -         Il           8         252          -                   2 76    20,611       42,091
Sobeo-l (hal            181,233       )9ft 7D      ) 7      7,00          40 146,019             11         220          40        16        ,01          Ol29,393   95,181                          47,8
31)    004        0.24        1,61       1-.49       2-.09    30.94        0.00s       ~ 30-5         -       0.00       0 .00      0.17            -      6.00      20.17            100
vroayield  vu-/bo)            0.01        S2.0       2.061       1.09       0,81      121.709      1.07       2.69       1,0)2       1.09           -       1.33                 40,67-
,0.0.1           0.24       0.42       0.4         0.29           -       1.27                                                 -  -                                  9.04           -             -
Ohnpve2090                                509        3,065       1,646         000        045         105         54          10        182      1,5165         2071                         1,5           4,3
Rav                            2,627       1.14           14        14           50      1606           30          6           -          -        50                                         I   2  ,0     9602
rThooga                     10,626       3,126         102        701           -     1,218            -           3                              302OO                              15    67.661          80,866
l-rbI                         18,736       8,702         275        00         00776                     -          -          -                     1                                  3    7,0          109,002
P  cket                        2,0 60          58          -        '96           -         16           -          .                               103                                 2      4110        10,400I
Treog                 33,676~~~ll:ll  3,867      009        499           0         3000-3                                         4        7403                                 8   132,445       173,756
au                            2,1) 6       4.000         206        240          62     1,0705                                             -        297           -          -         29    20:,300        30,66
Narattlcar            ~~~~~32,022  4,10          112        800         065      1,484                      2                               71            -           -          8  11088          151,0
Yal                           1220         1014           66         69          01,       088           -          3           -          -        11882-                                   120,88018    I35,0270
Sobtotat  (hal          159,299    00,66         4,0f        0,008      1,218      84_           020          60          10       10       4.936          7-0          -        10 0600             28.7
(TI          20.42        4.01       0,80        0.64       0,16        1.09       0.00        0.01           -      0.02        0.60       2.0            -       0.01      72,05            102
Average  plaid  lyon/ta)  ~1.96       1.98       2.54       1.12        0.8i      10.92        1,52       0,81       0.70        0.18           -       14                    71 
(033    7026        0,40       1.07       0,19        0.10        7.01           -      318            -           -         O                                                 
Crop ara(ba)              3,008,0       126,713   024,825    60,107   116,602   221,680    29,298    57,741               6.922    11,4210    70,806    26,70r    80,052   201,260   609,017   5.343,171
75) 0,26             2.32       9.00        1.10       2.18        5.09       0.06        1.08       0.3            I2      1.08       0.0         1.026      4.00      12000
Icon/ha)  Srvuvdedl  ~1.85        1.50       2.08        1.33       0,80      18.78        1.56       1.19       0,99        0.19          /c       1,36       1,20      40.96        0.62              -
Ia Crpae Onth   yea   1906/77 based  or vi   egloes.  Dat  fee ha-nted   rop acre  o-ly.
(5    ve-da-d devIation  (S.0.7  is            oatdo   h   basis of a--rge-yild-p-er -etr    tar the  -epe-Ine  -r-i--es
v   Car  no p-od-o-ti-vvload     a b-tket of cance   negatebits
Id   Cab  fOP  t-   pr-vnc-     -r  cobi-d.



- 39 -                             ANNEX 1
Table 4
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Area and Annual Growth Rates of Major Crops in Thailand
during the period 1959-61 to 1973-75/a
Total area                  Annual growth rates
Crop               in 1973-75   Area planted          Yield          Production
('000 ha)    - ------       -     - ()
Paddy                8,069           2.1               0.6                2.7
Corn                 1,367          12.5              -0.5               12.0
Rubber                 989           5.3                0.2               5.5
Cassava                629          16.1              -0.9               15.1
Kenaf                  478           8.5              -0.5                7.9
Coconut                369           8.6              -5.1               -2.3
Sugarcane              315          n.a.              n.a.               n.a.
Mungbeans              279          13.9              -1.8               11.9
Soybeans               192          16.4              -0.6               15.6
Sorghum                173             -                  _                 _
Groundnuts             166           3.6                0.3               4.0
Cotton                  42          -1.8                1.4              -0.4
/a  Thailand - Selected Issues in Rural Development Background Working
Paper number 4 of 8 prepared for the Thailand Basic Economic Report,
No. 2059-TH, November 1978.



THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Profiles of Typical Agricultural Households in 1976
East              Lower
Average      Upper        Mid       Upper   Lower  Central  Central   South   South
Thailand  Northeast  Northeast   North   North   Plain    Plain                  (Muslim)
Percent of total             100          20           12          12       12      11         3        10        3
Area of holding (ha)         3.5         4.0         4.0          1.9     4.8      3.2       6.4       3.2      1.9
Cropping intensity            77          61          68          60       80      100       121        86       94
Total net income (US$)       609         426         616         442      725      607    1,312        636      468
from farm                  501         376         541         367      605      457    1,112        486     318
off-farm                   108          50          75          75      125      150       200       150      150
Change since 1962 (%)
Total                      +49         +38         +91         +27      +72      +41     +202       +30      +10
Due to area                  -         +11         +74           -      +40       +5         -       +19        -
Due to yield                 -         +12          +7          +2       +6      +11         -         -       +6
Due to relative prices       -         +15         +10         +25      +26      +25         -       +11      +4
Source: N.S.O. Socio-Economic Survey, 1975/76, preliminary results.
(D X
Uin



- 41 -                             ANNEX 2
Table I
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Summary Cost Estimate
Local   Foreign   Total    F.E.C.
Item                           -------- ($'000) ______
Capital Costs
Civil works                          15,090    8,130   23,220        35
Vehicles                              2,220    2,720    4,940         55
Equipment & furniture                 1,180    1,770    2,950        60
Dem plot materials                      440    1,760    2,200         80
Subtotal                          18,930   14,380   33,310        43
Physical contingencies (10% on
civil works, equipment, materials
& furniture)                        1,670    1,170    2,840        41
Subtotal                          20,600   15,550   36,150        43
Training & Consultants
Overseas training                       450         -       450     100
Consultants (extension)                 460       890    1,350       66
Consultants (civil works)               930         -       930       0
Subtotal                           1,840       890    2,730       34
Incremental Operating Costs
O&M buildings                           855        45       900       5
vehicles                          1,400    1,400    2,800        50
equipment & furniture               225        25      250       10
Salaries                             12,260         -   12,260        0
Extension activities                     500        -       500       0
In-service training                     390         -       390       0
Monitoring                              500         -       500        0
DAE administrative overhead             540         -       540       0
Subtotal                          16,670    1,470   18,140         8
Subtotal project cost             39,110   17,910   57,020        31
Expected price increases                8,890    4,090   12,980         31
Total Project Cost                48,000   22,000   70,000        31



ANNEX 2
- 42 -                          Table 2
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Civil Works
Cost           Total Cost
($)             ($'000)
2  Regional Training Centers
1 admin-training building                             60,000
1 4-bedroom house                                     12,500
2 3-bedroom houses                                    17,000
2 5-unit apartments                                   68,000
Sites and services                                    70,500
Center cost          238,000              476
39 Combined Provincial & District Extension Centers
1 admin-training building                             45,000
1 5-unit apartment                                    34,000
1 3-unit apartment                                    20,000
1 Storage unit                                         7,000
Sites and services                                    14,000
Center cost         120,000            4,680
271 District Extension Centers /a
1 admin-training building                             15,000
1 3-unit apartment                                    20,000
Sites and services                                     7,500
Center cost          42,500           11,519
310 Subdistrict Centers /a (3-unit
apartments including sites
& services)                                           21,180             6,545
Total                                 23,220
/a Excluding 13 nonagricultural districts in the province of Bangkok.
/b For about 40% of all EA's in project provinces.



ANNEX 2
43                                  Table 3
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Vehicles and Furniture
Unit cost        Total Cost
($)            ($'000)
Vehicles /a
2,300 motorcycles (100 cc)                                    750            1,725
325 motorcycles (75 cc)                                     500              165
410 pick-up trucks                                        5,000            2,050
42 micro-buses (15 seats)                               15,000              630
20 4-wheel drive vehicles                               14,750              295
6 sedan cars                                            8,500               50
20 boats with engines                                    1,250               25
Subtotal                                   4,940
Furniture
1,700 office desk and chair (sets)                             60              102
12,250 chairs (student type)                                     8                98
400 typist table and chair (sets)                            47                19
400 filing cabinets                                          55               22
440 steel cabinets                                           48               21
130 bookcases                                                35                5
465 blackboard, pinboard and display cases                   55               26
310 storage cabinets (wood)                                  45                14
Miscellaneous                                            LS               43
Subtotal                                     350
Demonstration Plot Materials
Seed - 135 ton rice                                           150               20
200 ton other crops                                    500              100
Fertilizers - 400 ton of various formulation                   190              760
Agro-chemicals - for about 250,000 rai                           5            1,250
Miscellaneous materials                                        LS                70
Subtotal                                   2,200
Total                                      7,490
/a  Based on one motorcyle (100 cc) per EA and Assistant DEO; one motorcycle (75 cc)
per HEA; one pick-up truck per DEO; two pick-up trucks and one micro-bus per
province; and three pick-up trucks and one micro-bus per region. Sedans would
be for headquarters staff and boats and 4-wheel drive vehicles would be allo-
cated in areas with difficult conditions.



- 44 -                                         ANNEX 2
Table 4
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PPOJECT
Cost Estimates - Equipment
Number of Items Per:          Total No. Unit cost  Total Cost
Region  Province  District  HQs    units            ($)      ($'000)
Imported
Slide projector                      1         1          1        -      365         220           80
Overhead projector                   1         1          1        2       370         225          85
Movie projector (16 mm)              I         -          -        2         5         820           4
Projector screen                     1         1          1        -      365           90          33
Movie camera (8 mm)                  1         -          -        -         3       1,580           5
Movie projector (8 mm, sound)        1         1          -        -        42         585          25
Camera (35 mm)                       1         1          -        -       42         265           11
Tape recorder (cassette;
battery)                           1         1          -        -       42           95           4
Mini computer & software                       -          -        1         1     15,000           15
Photocopier                          1         1          -        -       42       1,155           49
Roneo duplicator                     1         1          1        -      365          720         263
Portable megaphone                   1         1          1        -      365          55           20
Public address system                -         1          -       -        39         175            7
Hand calculator                      2         2          1        -       407          60          25
Desk calculator                      1         1          -        -        42         200           8
Scale                                1         1          -        -       42         240           10
Knapsack sprayer (manual)            -         -         30        -    9,690           60         580
Knapsack sprayer (engine)            -         -          5        -    1,615         200          323
Sprayer (UlV)                        -         -         20        -    6,460           20         129
Moisture tester                      1         1          -        -        42         430          18
Water pump                           -         -          3        -      970          150         146
Offset printer (19"x25")             -         -          -        1         1     50,000           50
Collating machine                    -         -          -        1         1     22,500           23
Automatic polypropylene
strapping machine                  -         -          -        1        1       9,750           10
Densitometer                         -         -          -        1         1      1,500            2
Small farm machinery & imple-
ments for demonstration
purposes                                                                             LS           75
Cassettes, tapes, films, spare
parts & miscellaneous small
items                                                                                LS          110
Subtotal                                                                                2,110
Local Items
Home economics equipment & tools                                                        LS         323
Tools & equipment (mainly for
demonstration purposes)                                                              LS          162
Soil test kits                       1         1          -        -        42         120           5
Subtotal                                                                                  490
Total                                                                                   2,600



- 45 -                              ANNEX 2
Table 5
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Annual Schedule of Procurement and Costs of Vehicles, Equipment and Materials
Calendar Year
Item                     1980      1981      1982     1983      1984      Total
Motorcycle (100 cc) (no)       290       620       760       400       230      2,300
Motorcycle (75 cc)    "          18        84       94        76        53        325
Pick-up truck           "       24       105       115        98        68        410
Micro-bus                         3        11       11        10         7         42
4-wheel drive vehicle "          4         8         4         4         -         20
Sedan                            2         3         1         -         -          6
Boat and engine                  -         -         7         7         6         20
Total cost ($'000)         470    1,340    1,440    1,040          650     4,940
Equipment cost      "          155       675       755       600       415      2,600
Furniture cost      "           50       100       100        75        25        350
Materials cost      "            20      135       430       775       840      2,200
Total           "          695    2,250    2,725    2,490    1,930    10,090



- 46 -                                       ANNEX 2
Table 6
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Overseas Training
Calendar Year
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      Total
Half-yearly training courses in
neighboring countries /a  (no.)        10        10        10        10        10       50
Cost ($'000)                      22.5     22.5      22.5      22.5      22.5       113
Postgraduate overseas /b (no.)            2         3         3         2         -        10
Cost ($'000)                        35        53        53       53         -       176
Study tours to neighboring
countries /c (no.)                     20        25        30        25        20      120
Cost ($'000)                        24        30        36       30        24       144
Total cost (rounded)                85       105       110       90        50       440
/a  Course duration - six months
fares, board, lodging and allowance $2,250.
/b  Course duration - two years  (MSc, mainly)
fares, board and lodging, tuition and allowances $17,500.
/c Tour duration - 2-3 weeks
fares, board, loding and allowances $1,200.



47 -                                     ANNEX 2
Table 7
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Consulting Services
Man-months Per Calendar Year
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984      Total
Extension
North                               /a         /a        12       12         -         24
Northeast                           /a          4        12        8         -         24
Central                             /a         /a        12       12         -        24
West                                 6         12         6        -         -         24
East                                 -          -         6       12         6         24
South                               /a         /a        12       12         6         30
Total                             6         16       60        56        12       150
Local consultants                      6         16        42       32         -         96
Expatriate consultants                /a         /a        18       24        12         54
Team leader                           /a          6        12        12        6         36
Short-term local consultants           -          2         2        2         -          6
Short-term expatriate                  3          6         5        1         -         15
Total man-months                  9         30       79        71        18       207
Local consultants                 6         18       44        34                 102
Expatriate consultants            3         12       35        37        18       105
Cost $'000 /b                         55        185       500      465       145      1,350
Civil Works ($'000)
Annual construction cost         2,235      6,315    7,140    4,820    2,700    23,210
Local consultant costs              90        250      290       190       110        930
/a  National Extension I Project consultants.
/b  Based on $5,000 and $8,000/man-month of local and expatriate consultants
respectively.
/c  Based on 4.0% of construction costs for the surveys, tendering and construction
supervision.



ANNEX 2
- 48 -                                     Table 8
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Incremental Operating Costs
($ '000)
Calendar year:           1980    1981   1982    1983    1984    Total
O&M Buildings (No.)
Cumulative Dccupation of buildings
Regional centers                           1       2       2        2        2
Provincial centers                         2       12     22       32       39
District centers                          16      89    172       238      271
Houses                                    32     100    183       226      310
Annual O&M Costs /a ($'000)                  -       40    160      300      400       900
O&M Vehicles (No.)
4-wheel drive vehicles                       4       10     16       20       20
Pick-up                                     25      161    252      343      410
Minibus                                      3       14     25       35       42
Sedan                                        2        5      6        6        6
Motorcycles                                306   1,007  1,858   2,330   2,625
Boats                                        -        -      7       14       20
Annual O&M costs /b ($'000)                 85      350    615      810      940    2,800
O&M Equipment & Furniture
Cumulative annual procurment costs
furniture (US$'000)                       50     150    250       325      350
Cumulative annual procurement costs
equipment (US$'000)                      155     830  1,585   2,185   2,600
Annual O&M costs /c ($'000)                 10       30     50       70       90       250
Incremental Salaries (from Annex 2, Table 9)
Costs ($'000)                              560   1,680  2,310   3,590   4,120   12,260
Extension Activities
Number of districts (cumulative)            18      101    194      270      323
Costs /d (US$'000)                          10      55    105       150      180       500
In-service Training /e (Cost $'000)
Extension agents                             4       28     33       46       49
Supervisory and training staff               3       20     23       33       35
Subject matter specialists                  10       14     16       18       18
Senior staff                                 8        8      8        8        8
Total Training Costs                     25      70      80      105      110       390
Monitoring ($'000)
Annual costs /f                             10       55    105      150      180       500
Administration
Annual costs /g ($'000)                     10       60    110      160      200       540
Total Cost ($'000)                           710   2,340  3,535   5,335   6,220   18,140
/a  At 2% p.a. of construction costs, commencing one year after construction.
/b  Based on 1979 allocations and 8 months operation in first year:
4-wheel drive vehilce:  Operating cost $1,050 p.a. and maintenance $735 p.a.
Pick-up truck          : Operating cost $680 p.a. and maintenance $250 p.a.
Minibus                : Operating cost $905 p.a. and maintenance $740 p.a.
Sedan                  : Operating cost $680 p.a. and maintenance $490 p.a.
Motorcycle             : Operating cost $120 p.a. and maintenance $47 p.a.
/c Based on 3% p.a. of purchase price.
/d At $550/district/year for field days, plot signs and general activities.
Th Based on pre-service, refresher and subject matter courses for various groups of
personnel.
/f Based on one survey team for 4-5 project provinces/annum at $15,000 per team.
/g Based on $5,000 per province per annum.



TllAILAlsD
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION 11 PROJECT
Incremental Staff Appointments and Incremental Salaries /a
(B'000)
Public
service                                                     1980             1981            1982              1983               1984              Total
grade   Position                                        No.   Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost         No.      Cost      No.      Cost      Nlo.      Cost
2     Extension Agent /b                            207    5,693   535   17,548   981   22,042   1,112   40,829   1,174   45,814   1,174   131,926
2     Regional Administrative Staff                   3       114      9       371      9      371        9       371        9       371        9      1,598
2     Home Economics Agent /b                         14      385    63    1,914   140    4,713         185    6,869       238    9,080       238    22,971
3     Regional Administrator                           1       53      3       158      3      158        3       158        3       158        3        685
3     Asst. Provincial Training Officer                2      105    12        631    22    1,157        32    1,683        39    2,051        39      5,627
4     District Extension Officer /b                    5      207    49    3,043    72    4,471          93    5,465       117    6,768       117    19,954
4     Regional Extension & Training Technician    4           248    12        745    12       745       12       745       12       745       12      3,228
4     Provincial Subject Matter Specialist /b    23           952    50    2,545    85    4,554         108    6,230       119    7,162       119    21,443
5     Provincial Training Officer                      2      163    12        979    22    1,795        32    2,611        39    3,182        39      8,730
5     Assistant Provincial Extension Officer           2      163    10        816    12       979       16    1,306        17    1,387        17      4,651
5     Regional Subject Matter Specialist               4      326    13    1,061    17    1,387          22    1,795        24    1,958        24      6,527
5     Headquarters Subject Matter Specialist           3      245      3       245      3      245        3       245        3       245        3      1,225
6     Provincial Extension Officer                     -        -      1       102      1      102         1      102        1       102        1        408
6     Deputy Regional Extension Officer                2      203      6       610      6      610        6       610        6       610        6      2,643
6     Regional Training Officer                        1      102      3       305      3      305        3       305        3       305        3      1,322
6     Headquarters Subdivision Head                    1      102      1       102      1       102        1      102        1       102        1        510
7     Regional Extension Officer                       1      126      3       379      3      379        3       379        3       379        3      1,642
7     Headquarters Division Director                   1      126      1       126      1      126        1       126        1       126        1        630    Xn
8     Inspectors /c                                    9    1,378      9    1,378       9    1,378        9    1,378         9    1,378         9      6,890     i
9     Deputy Director General                          1      153      1       153      1       153        1      153        1       153        1        765
Total                                                    11,223          33,600           46,151             71,841            82,455   1.821   245,270
Total Cost (W'O00)                                          560            1,680           2,310              3,590              4,120             12,260
/a  Based on                        Grade, Salaries and allowances in Mid-1979
Public service grade
1       2        3        4        5        6         7        8         9
Basic yearly salary (Baht)           14,690  26,780  34,030  43,500  58,770   78,930   99,280  110,790  123,260
Per diem allocation (Baht)            5,400   7,200   9,000   9,000  10,800   10,800   12,600   12,600   12,600
Lodging allocation  (Baht)            7,200   7,200   9,600   9,600  12,000   12,000   14,400   14,400   16,800
Total Yearly Cost (Baht)        27,300  41,200  52,600  62,100  81,600  101,700  126,300  137,800  152,700
/b  Based on 8-months salaries and allowances in the year of appointment.
/c Includes additional travel allowance.
H 13



ANNEX 2
- 50 -                                Table 10
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Expected Price Increases
Calendar Year
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   Total
Civil Works /a
Annual costs ($'000)                   2,460  6,945  7,855  5,305  2,975  25,540
Rate of inflation (%)                    12.0   10.0    9.0    8.0    8.0
Expected price increases ($'000)          150  1,220  2,250  2,100  1,510   7,230
Vehicles, Equipment Materials and Furniture /a
Annual costs ($'000)                     720  2,340  2,855  2,635  2,060  10,610
Rate of inflation (%)                       6      6       6       6       6
Expected price increases ($'000)           20    220    450    600    620   1,910
Training and Consultants
Annual costs ($'000)                     230    545    900    745    310   2,730
Rate of inflation (%)                       6      6       6       6       6
Expected price increases ($'000)           10     50    140    170       80      450
Incremental Salaries
Annual costs ($'000)                     560  1,680  2,310  3,590  4,120  12,260
Rate of inflation (%)                       5      5       5       5       5
Expected price increases ($'000)           10    120    300    670  1,010   2,110
Incremental Operating Costs
Annual costs ($'000)                      150    660  1,225  1,735  2,090   5,880
Rate of inflation (%)                       6      6       6       6       6
Expected price increases ($'000)           10     60    190    390    630   1,280
Total Price Increases ($'000)         200  1,670  3,330  3,930  3,850  12,980
/a Including physical contingencies.



ANNEX 3
- 51 -                                 Table 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
($'000)
Calendar year
Item                                  1980   1981    1982    1983    1984    Total
Capital Costs
Civil works                        2,235   6,315   7,140   4,830   2,700  23,220
Vehicles                             470   1,340   1,440   1,040        650   4,940
Equipment                            155      675     755      600      415   2,600
Furniture                             50      100     100       75       25      350
Demonstration plot materials          20      135     430      775      840   2,200
Physical contingencies               250      720     840      630      400   2,840
Training and Consulting Services
Overseas training                     85      110     115       90       50     450
Consultants (extension)               55      185     500      465      145   1,350
Consultants (civil works)             90     250      285      190      115      930
Incremental Operating Costs
O&M buildings                          -      40      160      300      400     900
O&M vehicles                          85     350      615      810      940   2,800
O&M equipment and furniture           10       30      50       70       90     250
Salaries                             560   1,680   2,310   3,590   4,120  12,260
Extension activities                  10       55     105      150      180      500
In-service training                   25       70      80      105      110     390
Monitoring                            10       55     105      150      180      500
Administrative overhead               10       60     110      160      200      540
Expected Price Increases               200   1,670   3,330   3,930   3,850  12,980
Total Project Costs            4,320  13,840  18,470  17,960  15,410  70,000



ANNEX 3
- 52 -                              Table 2
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD                                                                Accumulated
fiscal year                                                           disbursements
& semester                                                              $ million
FY81 - 1st                                                                  0.3
2nd                                                                 1.2
FY82 - 1st                                                                  3.5
2nd                                                                 7.5
FY83 - 1st                                                                 11.5
2nd                                                                15.5
FY84 - 1st                                                                 20.5
2nd                                                                26.5
FY85 - 1st                                                                 32.0
2nd                                                                37.5
FY86 - 1st                                                                 40.0



53-                                ANNEX 3
Table 3
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
($ million)
Proposed
Category                                        Total        Foreign          loan
I.  Civil works /a                            23.2           8.1
Expected price increases /b               7.2           2.5
Subtotal                             30.4          10.6            22.5
Disbursements will be at 74% of total expenditure.
II. Vehicles, equipment, materials &
furniture /c                           10.1           6.3
Expected price increases /b                1.9          1.2
Subtotal                             12.0           7.5            12.0
Disbursement will be at 100% of total expenditure for directly imported
goods, 100% of expenditure (ex-factory) for locally manufactured goods,
and 65% of total expenditure for imported equipment procured locally.
III.  Consultants and training /d                2.7           0.9
Expected price increases /b               0.5           0.2
Subtotal                              3.2           1.1             3.2
IV. Unallocated
Physical contingencies /e               2.8           1.1             2.3
Incremental operating costs /f        (18.2)         (1-4)
Expected price increases /b            (3.4)         (0.3)
Total                                70.0          22.0            40.0
/a Annex 2, Table 2.
/b  Annex 2, Table 10.
/c  Annex 2, Tables 3, 4 and 5.
/d  Annex 2, Tables 6 and 7.
/e  Annex 2, Table 1.
/f  Annex 2, Tables 8 and 9.



ANNEX 4
- 54 -                                  Table 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Incremental benefits in terms of
net production value, ($'000) at
Incremental costs ($'000)           hypothetical rates of return
Year       Capital   Operating    Total             IRR = 15%          IRR = 20%
1         3,350          970       4,320                  0                 0
2         10,735       3,115      13,840              1,125             1,280
3         13,405       5,065      18,470              4,500             5,120
4         10,650       7,310      17,960             9,000             10,290
5          7,160       8,250      15,410            13,500             15,360
6          1,200      10,300      11,500            16,880             19,200
7          1,200      10,300      11,500            20,250             23,040
8-20        1,200      10,300      11,500             22,500            25,600



ANNEX 4
- 55 -                                 Table 2
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Present and Future Yields /a of Important Crops
Present    Future yield using       Future yields using
average    present knowledge        improved prod. tech.
Crop                 yield      and limited inputs       and required inputs
Ö-~~~~~-- Ö-- -------- (kg/ha) -----------------Ö
Rice
Irrigated            2,800            3,500                    4,500
Rainfed              1,800            2,200                    2,500
Maize                  2,000             2,500                   3,000
Cassava               16,000           20,000                   25,000
Groundnuts
(in shell)           1,250            1,700                    1,900
Mung bean                800             1,000                   1,250
Soybean                1,100            1,300                    1,800
Kenaf (fiber)          1,200             1,500                   2,500
Sugar cane            49,000           55,000                   65,000
/a  These yields represent a very broad spectrum of Thai conditions and
depend on climate, soil type, regional differences in cultural practices,
etc.



ANNEX 5
- 56 -
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Main Performance Indicators, Ln 1393-TH
Progress
At full development   April 1, 1979/a
(Appraisal estimate)
Parameter
Provinces (no.)                                    33                  25
Districts (no.)                                   323                 258
Subdistricts (no.)                              3,083               2,356
Farm families (million)                           2.8                1.95
Staffing (incremental)
SMS (no.)                                         210                  48
EA (no.)                                        2,500               1,303
HEA (no.)                                            -                214
PTO and Ass. PTO (no.)                             99                  25
Civil Works
Reg. Training Centers (no.)                          3                  2
Prov. Ext. Centers (no.)                      29 +  4/b                 7 /c
Dist.  Ext. Centers (no.)                    285 + 47/b                69
Houses in Subdistricts (no.)                 600 + 30/b               7.7
Procurement
Motor vehicles (no.)                               760                298
Motorcycles (no.)                               3,150               1,450
Equipment, furniture & materials ($'000)        4,100               1,922
Fellowships (no participants)
Overseas                                            10                  -
Local                                               40                  -
Study tours                                       100                  10
Project Costs
Total ($'000)                                  56,000              51,500
Disbursed ($'000)(March 31, 1978)               8,600               3,200
/a  Appointed, under construction or completed, or procurement approved.
/b  In NERD (Loan 1198-T-TH) project provinces.
/c  Bidding in progress for an additional 18 provincial construction
packages.



ANNEX 6
- 57 -
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Reference Material /1
A. General Reports and Studies on the Agricultural Sector
A-1 World Bank. Basic Economic Report: Thailand - Towards a
Development Policy of Full Participation; Report No. 2059-TH,
September 1, 1978.
A-2 World Bank. Thailand - Selected Issues in Rural Development;
Background Working Paper No. 4 for the Basic Economic Report,
November 1978.
B. Studies and General Work Related to the Project
B-1 Department of Agricultural Extension. Thailand - National
Agricultural Extension Project, Phase II, October 1978.
B-2 World Bank. Thailand - Appraisal of the National Agricultural
Extension Project; Report No. 1256a-TH, March 10, 1977.
B-3 World Bank. Agricultural Extension: The Training and Visit
System, by Daniel Benor and James Q. Harrison, May 1977.
/1 Available in the project file at the East Asia and Pacific Regional
Information Center.



-58-
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Organization Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC)
MINISTER
OFFICE OF SECRETARY
TO THE MINISTER
UNDER SECRETARY OF STATE
DEPVRTMENTS                                  DIVISIONS
* AGROCULTURAL TECHNOLOGY                 *ECENTRAL
* AGRCULTURAL EXTENSION                   * FINANCE
* LVESTOCK  DEVELOPMENT                   * PERSONNEL
F FISHERIES                               * FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL
*CLAND DEVELOPMENT                       RELATIONS
*ROYAL IRRIGATION                        * AGRICULTURAL INFORMATION
*ROYAL FOREST                            * AGRICULTURAL ECONOMICS
*COOPERATIVE PROMOTION                   * AGRICULTURAL AVIATION
* COOPERATIVE AUDITING                    * PLANNING
* AGRICULTURAL R ESEARCH
COORDINATION
* REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL
CENTERS
World Bank-15659



- 59 -
THAI LAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION 11 PROJECT
Organization Department of Agricultural Extension
[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l Geer                                                         "I orfit
F nance~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OecS.   Ectee oct                                                                           Ccovce                               nse   ccl   olrscc
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                        - I'll    ll                              n 
Picecced             Pc,mcm              F,cccCc                                         Tccic,cz E|ocom,c <                                                     Poccotoc {emlcemec,                   p {,o {                  _
Mecagement~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ecccom,e|ce1                                                             X               IV   bN
Oem ~       ~            ~            ~            -    01 Plm t{c3 
-|MeChccOOrit on |  {    cecS      I
A='HW .,
Pe ccc               Recn               Retr               Reqccc             Re ona   jecr                                                              Rem eca.                                  REGIOAL
Eclctc,to          LEteresoc          Eccenctor          Eten, or           EMtensn            Regoncal           e  egtctccl         EbBS csn         Ecterston                                  OFIE
ONfce,             rOnfe,r            Cnr    Off         05cm               Offcce              Exteenso c c     Ecrrtcknio            Ofrsce  || Offe r
Nc,,,              Nla fcc,,E         .oc              florfpeas          ccmcceecc  |          ec |Pa ert                 |        Sccff     l        35cct            
IProccectal        Pcc Ccc2l    Eme  1                 PtOacc             Pc!cflca     I        Pocec al        PtoectcC,aI                                              7 9PROINCES
Eetce,cccl         P | Ecenctor       Eaeesor           Eaceectoc          Eccrtepso          Eecensatn t        Ectenoetoc                                                  PEER REGION
OfI ceci11         Oftccec 2S         Off,cec 3S        Officer 4d          OffccecNS |        Off,cet 6           Offcr 7j 
Ac-   dc Bn   127



THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION 11 PROJECT
Project Organization
Ministry of Interior                                            Ministry of Agriculture
NATIONAL                                                                                                                                                National Coordinating
LEVEL                                                                                     Director General                                               Committee for
Agricultural Extension                                        Agricultural Extension
Inspectors                                i
(9)                         Deputy Director General
Extension Operations
and Training 11)
REGIONAL                                                     I
LEVEL                                                      i                        Regional Extension Officer"J
(9)
PROVINCIAL                                                    L      - _                   Provincial Extension                                          Provincial Agricultural
LEVEL               |      Governor         l                                 l               Officer                 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -    Extension Coordinating
I39)                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~Committee
I                        ~~~~~~~~Technical
-  -  -  -  -  - _-    -          Advisory
DISTRICT
LEV EL                      District                                                     District Extension
Administrator                                                        Office
|Home Economics|
Agent (323)
SUB-DISTRICT
LEVEL                                                                              Extension Agent
(about 2300)
-        Line of Coinmand
VILLAGE                                                                                                                                  _  _  . Line of Coordination
LEVEL                                                                                 Contact
Farmers
Farmer
Groups
1/ Personnel requirements shown in parentheses                                                                                                         World Bank - 19536



THAI LAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION 11 PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Calendar Year    1979             1980                  1981                   1982                  1983                   1984
CIVILWORKS                           I _  _
PROCUREMENT                           ttttttt()
STAFF APPOINTMENTSJ                  r+|                                                               
Designs and/or Tenders              ! - --      Staff Appointments
7 _     Construction                          () Number of Provinces
...tt  Procurement                                                                                     World Bank  20112






Io0 J                                                             104O
I                                                THAILAND
B U P Mt A                          $-./NY -- W.--\;           NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION ID PROJECT
-20∞                                         v_--Ch'ong Rai -                                                _ 1 _  PROVINCES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT          20∞-
00                 /0                                                 PROVINCES ENCLUDED UNDER LOAN 1393 TH
CHAGPHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECTICR. 379TH)
I hide Hong. 4   V   - "  X  >.   4 0 f <I                a.Jiighét: Z<NORTHEAST IRRIGATION I PROJECT(CR. 491 TH)
=   e b:D   on .g. :                      -              =  /:                     ¢: - - @  PHITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT(Lo  1149TH)
7'V,)  ilhi!i                  :                                                    NffFEAS RURAL DEVELRPMENT PROJECTIL- 109  -H
{    (i PPER'1Ott                            (    Naon - :E                                     NORTHEAST IRRIGATION)) PROJECT(L- 1E63T-FH)
Chiang Mo                          I                                       DIIIIIIIIIIt 0  |ilII NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1 r-M I                 I   yj                                                    PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
0                                                                                       REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
(LomP~~~~~~tg ~~~~-< Ph                                      -. ~~~~~~~ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
PR &To1            N   S                  LAOS PEOPLE'S
K               -    DEW. REP
N:   "  ~~~Nf'PhW3 SokjKRR OR
IIVflßkORIPhORRO PISRU =h :   P         hobs =  WS -            n    0 K0e
knPha g -hi    I5<i-      .    0DMCAI IAPUhE
L)   X   tf r32   :.   0   SS                         'itrcJ+} 0  0    :  0~~~~~~~~2                                      IR
~~-    Jo-                %<ho1~~~~yoph5m
-12∞~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nko w=                Paa               1 N,o ahm                 W<)0=     ;;                                                      2
~~~~r<OIR   =o=s                                        - -      = $         .Pthu hn    
Eun      is 01 .7X  (    7tS-       ProChIR BUrl0    0     t000                           7    W    7fri,..
CIoI &5               l;9AngPTPhoR:n      t           2iT,
0G-  (    ;g,AChuOnphon                                              G  <t  <                  achoenBao>
Ip         -      \urat   nRth BuimT -o_ <p    
WE S1Ω                 5So l S         Aok ST
-12-                             Khm   on           2.~~~~~~~~~~ho No-1, o  IA2hoo,teoot                                           ioH-e
p                           9~~~~~~~~ SARnM Shong4 ~                          VOodnooowWA0~
0        10              00300                    \_=  z=,93[N 1hwa                                                           ',00199,           oPeRaSe      _
6. Than BvTi~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~W4  an WIOaRAte  o
7. Sonn.t P,.kc-n ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~optao.'oayar9roIe,
4io                  ees'  T                          =ro .......... t,4zMlAY    
>  ∞     Miles                     200       \g    0   =<S ~~~~~8Pro  akhn i Ayth.c                                   d.A  t     alNA0E1 t 
Q                                                             9Ang0Thong P SL                                --;    A          I        CHINA
PUPPER)sSTH '                                                                                                       CHIN
A            -                                     ~~~~~~~~B-URMA    \           >~L
'   5  Thommorot                                                                  1                     0 ,-"   E   A
4THAILAND~t              <
VLO\W           T                                                 Andomon?a                   RRICR
,~~      -    South
0  lOS  200  300    N'IJ    Yalo! ~~~~~~                                        /               c-/K- ~       China  Sea
Kil-n-                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~MA L A YS  IA        W
.20                       100                      2000                         7~j~               1                                        -                         S
MIIRR   1                                                                                .g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jOI~~~~NGAPORE  -.S
I00-               MALAYS IA                                                    I N DLJJN E 5AW



