Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                F1e  t;QPN
Report No. P-2610-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSTION PROJECT
July 23, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =  Baht (i)
$1               =  B 20
Baht 1           =  $0.05
Baht million     =  $50,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                     =   39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (sq m)          =   10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)                35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)               =   0.62 miles (mi)
I hectare (ha)                 =   10,000 sq m or 2.471 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                 =   2.2046 pounds (lbs)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DAE    -  Department of Agricultural Extension
EA     -  Extension Agent
HEA    -  Home Economics Agent
MOAC   -  Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
SMS    -  Subject Matter Specialist
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THATLAND
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:         $40 million equivalent
Terms:          20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
7.9% per annum.
Project         The proposed project is the second phase of a program to
Description:  establish effective agricultural extension services nation-
wide through a system of frequent and regular visits
to farmers by trained extension agents.  Under the project,
the extension program will be extended to the 39 provinces not
covered under the first phase project (being financed under
Ln. 1393-TH). The project makes provision for: (a) further
strengthening of the Department of Agricultural Extension
(DAE) and the establishment of clear lines of command and
coordination from the national level to the districts,
including the establishment of nine regional offices; (b)
increasing the number of extension, supervisory, technical
and support staff by about 1,800 persons; (c) local training
for all extension workers and a limited number of overseas
fellowships and training tours to neighboring countries; (d)
the construction of two regional training centers, about 40
combined provincial and district extension centers, about 270
district extension centers and about 310 housing facilities
(with 3 apartments each) for extension agents; (e) the
procurement of vehicles, equipment, furniture and demonstra-
tion materials; (f) the employment of agricultural and
engineering consultants; and (g) project monitoring and
evaluation.
The project is expected to benefit some 2.3 million farm
families by improving productivity, raising incomes and
generally improving the quality of life at a relatively low
investment cost of $32 and incremental operating costs of
$4.70 per farm family.  Project risks relate mainly to the
rate and degree of adoption of extension recommendations by
the farm families. As this is crucial to the success of
the project, the work of the extension personnel will be
continually monitored and evaluated during project
implementation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
Local    Foreign    Total
------ ($ million) ------
Civil works                        15.1        8.1        23.2
Vehicles, equipment
and materials                     3.8        6.3       10.1
Training and consultants            1.8        0.9         2.7
Incremental operating costs        16.6        1.5        18.1
Total base costs                   37.3       16.8        54.1
Contingencies:
Physical                          1.8        1.1         2.9
Price                             8.9        4.1        13.0
Total Project Cost                 48.0       22.0        70.0
(including $4.2 million
in taxes and duties)
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
…=---- ($ million) ------
IBRD                               18.0       22.0        40.0
Thai Government                    30.0         -         30.0
Total                              48.0       22.0        70.0
Estimated Disbursements from IBRD Loan:
IBRD FY      1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
----------------- $ million ----------------
Annual        1.2     6.3      8.0    11.0    11.0      2.5
Cumulative   1.2      7.5    15.5    26.5    37.5    40.0
Rate of Return:    Because of the nature of the project, it is not possible
to quantify likely benefits in detail; however, a conserva-
tive calculation, assuming that benefits are limited to an
increase in paddy production of only 26 kg/ha, yields an
economic rate of return of 15%, indicating that the
project is well justified.
Appraisal Report: No. 2420-TH, dated July 16, 1979.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
1.        T ctuDmit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $40 million to help finance
the second national agricultural extension project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including five years grace, with interest at 7.9% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report forges a link between the overall development
of the economy and the extent and incidence of poverty. It concludes that
Thailand's rapid economic growth over the past 15 years has led to a signifi-
cant reduction in absolute poverty, but that certain income groups have
lagged behind this progress. The report identifies the essential character-
istics of these groups and points to the need for continued rapid overall
development as well as the initiation of specific measures to deal with the
poverty problem. particularly in rural areas.  It further discusses the
constraints to the successful implementation of these policies. Country Data
are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Despite frequent changes at the top levels of government, there is
a fundamental stability in Thai society and the bureaucracy. Recent changes
in governments have mainly reflected differences in view about Thailand's
external relations and on the political decision-making process within the
country and not fundamental differences about the social or economic system.
The civilian government formed in November 1977 under the Prime Ministership
of General Kriangsak Chomanan, then Commander-in-Chief of the Army, moved
successfully to consolidate Thailand's external position by improving and
stabilizing relations with Thailand's Indochinese neighbors and by strengthen-
ing relations among its ASEAN partners. The constitutional assembly under
the interim constitution promulgated a new constitution in December 1978, and
elections were held on April 22, 1979. No party won a majority of the seats
in the lower house; the largest block, some 82 seats out of 301, was won by
the Social Action Party led by former Prime Minister Kukrit Pramoj. Since
ministers are not required to come from the legislature, General Kriangsak
was selected by a majority of the combined houses of parliament. The upper
house was appointed and contained mostly Kriangsak supporters. After nearly
a month's negotiation, Kriangsak was able to form a coalition government of
29 ministries, including 10 without portfolio in the Prime Minister's Office.
Many personalities from the previous cabinet remain, although some with
/1 Parts I and II of this report are essentially the same as those contained
in the recent President's Report for the Northern Agricultural Development
Project (P-2410-TH), dated May 30, 1979, submitted to the Executive
Directors under cover of Secretary's Memorandum IDA/R79-70.



- 2 -
different responsibilities. The composition of the Government and Kriangsak's
statements indicate that this Government will continue the emphasis of the
previous one on rural development and poverty alleviation, although it
necessarily represents a more delicate balance among contending political
forces than its predecessor.
4.        A broad concensus has developed over the last several years on
the priorities for socioeconomic development as expressed in the country's
Fourth Five-Year National Economic and Social Development Plan (1977-81).
There is now increasing concern to achieve a widespread distribution of the
benefits from growth. In the past several years the Government has initiated
efforts to increase the flow of public resources to the poor rural areas,
including the Tambon program of direct transfers to villages in 1976, the
drought relief program in 1977, and the flood relief program in 1978. All
these programs have been designed to produce quick and visible results, the
latter two in response to specific crises, but they were also aimed at
increasing production capacity in rural areas and demonstrating the concern
of the Central Government for the plight of the rural population. There is
an increasing realization that an improvement in the conditions of the poorest
farmers and those living in the more remote areas is not only desirable in
itself, but would also counteract political instability in the long run. The
new government has yet to define its new programs but no break from these
trends is foreseen. The recent developments in Indochina and the arrival of
refugees have occupied the new government's attention and coping with these
problems will probably lead to some reallocation of resources to refugee
relief and to strengthening Thailand's military position in border areas. It
is too soon to tell what the effects of these developments will be on other
programs.
Past Socioeconomic Trends and Recent Changes
5.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  Although
there has been some deceleration in recent years, the average annual growth
rate of real GDP from 1960 to 1978 was 7.5%, or about 4.4% per capita. Real
agricultural growth of 5% was a leading factor sustaining this expansion.
The cultivated area increased by about 4% per year, water control was improved,
irrigation expanded and the cultivation of relatively new crops including
maize, cassava, kenaf, sugar and rubber grew rapidly. Agriculture has also
been a major contributor to export growth. The Government maintained economic
and price stability throughout the period and encouraged private savings and
investment. As a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated between 19% and
24%, and total investment between 20% and 27%. The high level of private
investment contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% and a real growth
of manufactured exports of 30% per year since 1970. All this was achieved
with a limited inflow of foreign resources; until recently the resource gap
remained below 5% of GDP, and in most years it was considerably smaller.
6.        The growth in incomes has, however, not been evenly distributed
throughout the country and at present there are very significant regional
differentials in incomes and access to economic and social infrastructure.
While the regions are very different in terms of topography, climate, soils,
urbanization, etc., and present quite distinct problems for future development,
there appears to be a close correlation between development and proximity to
urban centers. The Central Region, including Bangkok, has the highest
per capita income and is better served by roads, telecommunications, schools,
public health and other services than the other three regions, the North,



- 3 -
Northeast and South. The incidence of poverty is estimated at only around
10% in the Center, around 25% in the North and South, and around 35% in the
Northeast. Within the regions also there is considerable variation: farmers
who have diversified into cash crops have generally enjoyed substantial
growth in real incomes while the incomes of those who have been unable or
unwilling to shift out of subsistence rice culture have stagnated. Recent
research has shown that the lack of cropping patterns and agricultural
techniques appropriate to the land and climatic conditions is a major factor
in much of the rural poverty. This is most conspicuously the case of the
rainfed rice farmers in the Northeast and North. Since there is a well-
functioning labor market, the low incomes of this large group have tended to
depress unskilled wages throughout the economy.
7.        Overall, the rate of GDP growth declined in the 1970s to 7.1% p.a.
compared to 8.3% in the 1960s. In addition to external factors (the oil price
increase and its aftermath), the major domestic factor responsible for this
deceleration is the increasing scarcity of land. Production has been pushed
into less fertile soils causing a decline in the rate of agricultural growth
to about 4.6% p.a. since 1970, compared to 5.7% in the 1960s. During 1973 and
part of 1974, this secular deceleration was hidden by very high prices for
Thailand's main export products and a domestic investment boom. This was
accompanied by rapid domestic inflation, which led the Government to curtail
sharply the public investment program in 1974 and 1975. Price stability has
since been restored and private domestic investment remains high at 17-18%
of GDP. The economy expanded rapidly in 1978 and inflation again threatens
to become a serious problem. The economy has demonstrated considerable
resiliency in the face of the political uncertainty that has existed in Asia
over the past decade.
8.        Thailand's terms of trade and agricultural export prospects are now
less favorable than in the early 1970s. Thailand is facing severe restrictions
on two of its major exports to the European Economic Community - cassava and
canned pineapple, and its sugar exports are limited by the International
Sugar Agreement. The balance of payments, which recorded surpluses in
1973-74, has since been running large deficits. The current account deficit
reached $1,241 million, or 6% of GDP, in 1978. The Government has significantly
increased its foreign borrowing from traditional sources, from the Eurodollar
market and from the IMF to finance these deficits. Foreign exchange reserves
have also been used extensively. To contain the balance of payments deficit,
the Government, in March 1978, raised tariffs on 141 "nonessential" imports
and increased excise taxes on a number of items, most notably gasoline. It
raised the gasoline price again in February 1979 and started an energy
conservation program to try to contain the oil import bill.
Objectives, Constraints and Prospects
9.        Thailand is currently in the third year of its Fourth Five-Year
Development Plan (1977-81). The first two Plans concentrated on providing
necessary economic infrastructure to facilitate and accommodate the rapid
growth that was taking place in the economy. The strategy proposed in the
Third Plan moved beyond the previous Plans to "alleviate problems related to
the widening income gap and inequitable distribution of social services."
However, actual budgetary allocations have not always reflected these priori-
ties, and there has not been a major shift in expenditure patterns.   The



-4-
concentration of senior staff of the ministries in Bangkok and the high degree
of centralization of authority at the departmental level have been major
factors impeding reallocation of resources. There is little regional delegation
of authority, and the close cooperation within and among ministries necessary
to implement poverty-oriented development projects has been lacking. These
problems have been recognized and the Government is implementing a number of
long- and short-term measures to improve its development administration and
expedite project execution, including a major reform in 1976 of the civil
service personnel, planning and staffing procedures, establishment of special
project committees, and implementation of a revolving fund scheme to speed
implementation of Bank-assisted projects. Further improvements in development
management is one of the principal objectives of our policy dialogue with the
Government.
10.       The Fourth Plan continues the shift in emphasis started in the Third
Plan. Its principal objectives are achieving 7% real growth, equitable
distribution of income, reduction in the rate of population growth, faster
generation of employment opportunities and balanced regional development.
Projected public sector development expenditures amount to $12.5 billion for
the Plan period, a 90% increase in real terms over the Third Plan. However,
the Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies only in broad terms, and
concrete policies and programs to meet the Plan's economic and social
objectives remain largely to be defined. The Bank and agencies of the
Government are undertaking a number of studies to help design policies and
programs to achieve the Fourth Plan objectives. These studies are focusing
on problems of unemployment, income distribution, industrial policy, and
regional development. The Bank will be supporting a Provincial Planning
program, and the National Economic and Social Development Board has just
initiated a New Village Development Program, designed to engage wider
participation in the design and implementation of small-scale projects,
initially in the poorest villages. Japan has committed some $70 million to
support the first two years of this program.
11.       In looking ahead towards the 1980s, it is clear that many of the
positive features which helped sustain a rapid rate of economic growth
over the past two decades will continue to contribute to future growth:
these factors include a relatively equitable distribution of rural land,
responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved technology, provision of infra-
structure by the Thai Government, and the dynamism of the private sector
in both industry and agriculture. Also major gains have been made in family
planning in recent years, slowing the annual rate of population growth from
3% during the 1960s to 2.5% in 1977./i The target for 1981 is 2.1%.
12.       However, some less favorable domestic factors are also emerging.
As a result of very rapid population growth in the last decade, the labor
force is expected to grow at 3% over the next decade, necessitating a very
high rate of job creation. Past growth has benefited some households a great
/1 This is a further decline from the 2.9% average growth recorded in
Annex I for the period 1970-76.



deal and others not at all, creating further income disparities that could
threaten the social cohesion of the country. At the same time, additional
fertile land, which has supported the growth of agricultural production and
exports in the past, is becoming increasingly scarce. In view of these
factors, continued reliance on the past pattern of development would lead to
a deceleration of agricultural and overall growth in the next decade, resulting
in persistently large balance of payments deficits, higher rates of unemploy-
ment or underemployment, and stagnating or declining real incomes of the
poorer segments of the population, especially in rural areas and among
unskilled workers. Thus, a shift in the development pattern is necessary not
only for social but also for economic reasons.
13.       The key development issue in Thailand is how to shift the economy
from a pattern of growth based on the extension of land under cultivation and
on import-substituting industries to one based on increasingly intensive use
of land and on industries producing for domestic and export markets under
competitive conditions. Effective policies and programs will be necessary to
ensure that economic growth is maintained and income disparities reduced, or
at least not widened during this period of transition. In the past, the
Government's role has been confined to largely short-term economic management,
where its performance has been good, and to th provision of basic economic
and social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth transition, the
Government will now have to undertake more coordinated policies and actions
on a long-term basis.
14.       Agriculture will continue to be a crucial sector since it directly
generates 30% of GDP, provides about 70% of total exports, employs 75% of the
labor force, and provides a livelihood for 80% of Thailand's population.
Future growth of the sector will have to be based on more intensive utilization
of cultivated areas, continued diversification of crops, improved cropping
patterns and farming practices, and the availability of agricultural credit.
All of these imply an increased government role in the rural sector.
As a matter of high priority, special programs will have to be employed to
accelerate income growth of those who have not benefited from recent economic
growth. These programs should aid the development of upland and rainfed
lowland areas through research, extension services and rural infrastructure
development. In addition, wherever technically feasible, irrigation develop-
ment, with the associated introduction of high-yielding varieties, greater
use of fertilizers and other commercial inputs should be continued. The
Bank's lending program is being reoriented to support these efforts.
15.       While growth in the agricultural sector may be expected to remain
fairly rapid for some time to come, the burden of sustaining future growth
will have to shift progressively to the industrial sector. Industry,
construction and services will have to provide an increasing share of
employment for the growing labor force. Greater effort will be required to
encourage the location of industries outside Bangkok and to promote small-
scale and rural industries. While continued growth of manufactured exports
is essential, the large domestic market also offers opportunities for a
balanced industrial growth based on production of consumer goods, agricultural
inputs, and processing of agricultural outputs for urban consumption and



-6-
export. Our policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to reduce price
distortions, increase the availability of credit, and eliminate impediments to
efficient production for domestic and foreign markets so that the dynamic
private sector can realize its potential for spurring growth and creating jobs.
16.       The Consultative Group for Thailand met in Paris in December
1978, under the chairmanship of the Regional Vice President, East Asia and
the Pacific Regional Office. The Group noted with satisfaction the positive
results of past development efforts in Thailand as summarized in the recently
issued economic report (2059-TH). The Group also supported the conclusions
of the report and of the analysis of the Thai delegation, led by the Minister
of Finance, that major new efforts were needed to reduce the incidence of
poverty and to maintain the past rates of growth. Programs to accelerate
rural development, raise productivity, and thereby accelerate poverty allevia-
tion were called for as the first priority. In addition, it was recognized
that expanding industrial production along the lines of Thailand's comparative
advantage was essential to the country's long-term prosperity. The Thai
delegation presented the New Village Development Program to the donors and it
was favorably received.
Resource Requirements
17.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate
of economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government
domestic revenue as a percentage of GDP (15.5% for 1974-78) is low compared
to other developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax
rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compliance. The
Government has achieved a modest improvement in resource mobilization through
revision of the tax structure and improved collections. It is currently
exploring other forms of taxation such as the value-added tax. Such changes
would facilitate a reduction in export taxes on rice and other commodities
which have inhibited agricultural growth.
18.       During the coming 5-10 years, the demands for external resources is
likely to increase as the cost of reducing the present resource deficit through
a reduction in public investment would be high in terms of growth and employ-
ment opportunities foregone. Despite an average real growth of exports in
excess of 8% and a modest improvement in the terms of trade, large trade and
current account deficits are expected through the mid-1980s due to the needs
for capital-goods imports for industry and for modern inputs to raise agricul-
tural productivity. In the longer term, the exploitation of the natural gas
fields in the Gulf of Thailand, further development of its lignite resources,
the continued growth of manufactured exports and the development of Thai
industries should restore external equilibrium and significantly reduce the
current account deficits in the second half of the 1980s. Although the
levels of foreign borrowing needed to finance these deficits are high in
relation to Thailand's past experience, they are not high in relation to
the current needs of the Thai economy or in comparison with other countries



at a similar stage of development.  With a dynamic private sector and a long
history of conservative monetary and fiscal policy, Thailand should be
able to use the resources effectively and service the external debt.
19.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been expanding their programs to meet a part of the rising requirements.
The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond markets, and
by the utilization of IMF resources for 1978/79, totalling about $200 million.
The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to coordinate
and approve all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Bank of Thailand
is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing abroad in order to
keep track of total foreign debt. Thailand's external public borrowing
requirements to the end of the Fourth Plan period (1981) and the level of
concessionality were reviewed at the last Consultative Group meeting. It was
agreed that the aid requirements, although high, were consistent with Thailand's
development strategy and sustainable by the economy. The need for continued
substantial support on concessional terms was emphasized. It therefore seems
appropriate to include a limited amount of IDA credits in the Bank Group's
lending to Thailand. In addition, external agencies, including the Bank
Group, have in recent years increasingly concentrated project lending
to Thailand in the agricultural and social sectors that have high social
benefits but low foreign exchange savings. To achieve the higher level of
external resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected
projects when the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local
currency expenditures.
20.       It is likely that by 1985, net disbursements will more than double
in current terms for both public and publicly would-be guaranteed borrowing
and private borrowing, although in real terms the growth is much less. Even
with this increase in borrowing, the debt service ratio on public debt (3.8%
in 1977) should remain below 10% through 1985 and decline thereafter. The
debt service ratio on total civilian borrowing, public and private, currently
about 15%, should not exceed 20%. Given the diversification of Thai commodity
exports and the rapid expansion of manufactured exports, these debt service
requirements will be within Thailand's capacity and will not endanger its
credit standing. It should be noted, however, that these projections assume
a significant level of concessional assistance from other donors, particularly
Japan, in view of that country's explicit intention to expand its foreign aid
program.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
21.       Thailand first borrowed in 1950 for a railway project and, as of
June 30, 1979, had received 51 loans amounting to about $1,371 million, net
of cancellations. The sectoral distribution of these loans had been as
follows: $311.5 million for transportation; $236.4 million for irrigation;
$391.7 million for power/energy and rural electrification (including $65.8
million for a dual purpose power and irrigation project); $153.0 million for
telecommunications; $104.0 million for agricultural and rural development;
$79.6 million for urban development; $52.3 million for education; and $42.5
million for industry. Thailand has also received six IDA credits: two



-8-
credits totalling $54.5 million for education; one credit of $25.0 million
for rural development; two credits totaling $12.5 million for irrigation
improvement; and one credit of $33.1 million for a population project. In
general, Bank Group-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily
and in accordance with expectations. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects as of June 30, 1979.
22.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending to
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastructure
projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a program
which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts to
reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications
and industry have accounted for about 50% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed
to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural sector has trebled, accounting for about 35% of lending
operations since FY75. The design of projects in this sector has also
changed from exclusively large irrigation projects to a program balanced
between irrigation (including land development and support services to the
farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside the
central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agriculture extension,
research and rural development). Projects in the social sectors which, prior
to FY75, were limited to three in education and accounted for 6% of the
program, have both diversified and grown; such projects have in recent years
included education, population and low-income housing, and amounted to about
15% of the program.
23.       The findings of the recent Basic Economic Report not only verify
the appropriateness of the shift mentioned above, but also underscore the
need to move even further in designing programs which help the rural popu-
lation, particularly those farmers in rainfed areas who have been largely
bypassed by recent economic growth. In the agricultural sector, therefore,
the Bank is redoubling its efforts to develop an approach which will help to
lift the rainfed farmers out of a subsistence existence. A combination of
education, agricultural research and extension, credit and improved infrastruc-
ture is foreseen. However, the major problem is the absence so far of a
viable package for the poorest and most remote farmers. Expansion and
improvement of irrigation systems will continue, with increased emphasis on
reaching those farmers with irrigation potential in the Northern, Northeastern
and Southern regions. The program of transportation, electrification, water
supply and telecommunications projects will also continue to have a rural
focus. A key element of the strategy outlined in the Basic Economic Report
is the creation of jobs and stimulation of increased economic activity away
from Bangkok. The bulk of the Bank Group's urban and industrial lending
will, therefore, be directed to projects which enhance the attractive-
ness of regional urban centers as growth poles for their agricultural hinter-
lands. Selected projects in Bangkok will be aimed at strengthening agencies
providing essential services to the urban populace and the development of
low-cost, replicable programs to meet the demands of the dynamic urban
sector, particularly the urban poor, without diverting scarce resources from
other high-priority development needs.



- 9 -
24.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will
be difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward
project preparation. The Bank's regional mission in Bangkok will continue to
play a vital role in helping to identify and prepare such projects. Promoting
overall growth also has a high priority in Thailand and is a necessary element
in the poverty alleviation strategy. The resource requirements for infrastruc-
ture development are large and the Bank is concentrating its remaining funds
in projects where it can have a catalytic role in effecting policy changes,
mobilizing other resources, and directly facilitating growth in rural areas.
The Bank is also expanding its support of the industrial sector through its
economic and sector work as well as selected projects in order to help promote
industrial policy which favors more labor-intensive and dispersed activities to
complement Thailand's efforts in poverty alleviation.
25.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$365 million, as of December 31, 1977, representing about 38% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (8.3% of GDP in 1978). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is projected to decline below
30% of total public external debt by 1982 as Thailand diversifies its borrowing
program. The Bank Group's share in total debt outstanding would fall below
20%, and its share of total debt service would not exceed 10%.
26.       As of June 30, 1979, IFC had made commitments totalling about $83
million in 10 projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been primarily in
industry and in the development of financial institutions which aim at
mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller enterprises.
Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been enhanced by
expanding private sector investment activity. In addition, consultations
with the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may
be needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as a
proposed sponge iron project and a soda ash project to serve the ASEAN
community; projects in the petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector; and
projects in the agricultural sector. In addition, the Corporation expects to
continue to help traditional manufacturing projects and to assist in financial
institutions and money market developments.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
27.       About 35 million people, or 80% of the Thai population, reside in
rural areas and depend primarily on agriculture for their livelihood. The
increase in agricultural employment (1.4% per year) has been less rapid than
the increase in the rural labor force (3% per year), encouraging rural-urban
migration and reflecting the increasing importance of nonfarm rural employ-
ment and income. In 1970, about 30% of family income in rural areas came
from off-farm sources.



- 10 -
28.        The volume of agricultural production in the period 1970-76 grew by
4.3% p.a., down from 5.4% in 1960-70, with about 75% of output accounted for
by crop production, 4% by forestry, and the balance by livestock and fisheries.
Most of this recent growth has come from expansion of the cultivated area
since major crop yields have changed little on a national basis and the
cropping intensity remains low at 76%. Rice has become relatively less
important in agricultural value added (declining from 51% in 1960 to 39% in
1975), while upland crops, particularly maize and cassava, have contributed
a larger share of total output. Maize and cassava exports together are now
almost approaching the value of rice exports. Some 1.8 million ha of rice
land is irrigated and close to 0.4 million ha of this is double cropped to
rice in the dry season. To meet the domestic demand and maintain Thailand's
share of the world's export market, rice production from irrigated lands
would have to double from 5.5 million to 12 million tons by 1990. The good
overall performance of Thai agriculture is due to area expansion (rather than
yield increases), a vigorous private sector, and government investments in
infrastructure (roads, water control, ports, electric power, etc.). Until
recently, agricultural support services such as research, credit, input
supply and extension have been given little emphasis. A major effort in such
support services will be required to improve crop yields particularly in
large areas with difficult climatic conditions.
29.        Average incomes of farm households increased to $850 p.a. ($142 per
capita) in the period 1970-76, mainly due to an increase in the average crop
area per farm and higher relative prices for farm products. There are
significant disparities in farm income between the 19 different agro-economic
zones, mainly due to an unequal resource endowment (but also to past invest-
ment), with the highest incomes being realized in areas of irrigated agricul-
ture in the Central Region and the lowest in the North and Northeast.
30.        Despite agriculture's overall good performance during the past
15 years, about one third of the rural population remain poor in absolute
terms (absolute poverty in Thailand is defined by the Bank as a per capita
income of less than $90 p.a.). Moreover, as readily accessible arable land
reserves are exhausted, continued rapid growth of this sector will be more
difficult to maintain. The period of easy accessibility to new land is now
drawing to a close and, with continued rapid growth of the rural population,
the national average farm size may already have begun to decline. About
two thirds of all poverty households are in rural areas of the North and
Northeast where the major source of family income is rice grown under rainfed
conditions. It is in these areas that the land is underutilized (low crop-
ping intensity), that physical infrastructure is least adequate, and that
agricultural and social support services tend to be the weakest. It is also
here that opportunities for nonfarm employment are the most limited.
Strategy for Development
31.        There is growing concern in the Government over the emerging issues
of longer-term development of the rural sector. The Government is increas-
ingly stressing the need to achieve greater spatial balance in economic
growth and to ensure that all socioeconomic groups benefit from the growth
process. The Fourth Plan details agricultural sector strategies that aim to
expand the value added in agriculture by 5% p.a. These are: (a) intensi-



- 11 -
fication of production in presently cropped areas; (b) diversification
through expanding the livestock, fruit and vegetable subsectors; (c) limit-
ing the rate of deforestation and expansion of cultivated land to 80,000
ha/year; and (d) emphasizing integrated agricultural development through
programs to improve on-farm irrigation, expand agricultural credit, improve
input delivery systems and strengthen agricultural extension.
32.       As the land constraint becomes increasingly severe, further growth
of agriculture and the rural sector generally will depend on progress made
in several areas.
(a) Land Productivity. Because new land coming under cultivation has a
lower yield potential, the main source of increased production must
come from higher yields and cropping intensities. This will need,
in particular, more effective agricultural support services, such
as research, extension, credit and marketing which would lead to
improved water management and cultural practices and require
greater emphasis on infrastructure improvement and maintenance.
(b) Rainfed Agriculture. The Government needs to expand its effort to
develop rainfed agriculture, the subsector that presents the most
acute problems of poverty, low yields and natural resource degrada-
tion. This requires investment in road construction to improve
accessibility of isolated areas, programs of applied research and
extension to meet the needs of farmers in different ecological
conditions, and an accelerated program of land titling that would
provide security of tenure and the motivation to pursue more
productive agricultural practices.
(c) Government Institutions. A major constraint on Thailand's future
agricultural development is inadequate planning, implementation
and monitoring capacity for both development projects and more
general supporting services. This reflects in part the highly
centralized nature of government, as well as functional duplica-
tion and inadequate coordination among government agencies. There
is a particular need to define more clearly the roles of various
agencies involved in land development, settlement and land reform.
(d) Availability of Inputs and Credit at Reasonable Cost. In recent
years there have been shortages of fertilizers. In addition,
fertilizer prices are about the highest in Asia, which causes
farmers to use less than the recommended quantities and this
has resulted in low yields for many crops. Despite the rapid
expansion in the amount of institutional credit available to
agriculture, the small farmer in Thailand generally continues to
experience difficulty in obtaining adequate crop production credit
at reasonable terms.
Bank Involvement
33.       Agreement between the Bank and the Government on the problems and
development prospects of the rural sector has led to a gradual shift in
Bank lending to meet the changing character of the sector's development needs.



- 12 -
Until the early 1970s, Bank lending was concentrated on transportation infra-
structure and irrigation, with these two sectors accounting for about 60% of
total Bank lending to Thailand through 1973. The recent Bank emphasis has been
on strengthening government institutions in agriculture and rural development,
and on laying the foundation for continued diversification of the agricultural
sector. Lending in the past few years has included support for agricultural
extension, pilot research programs, livestock development, rubber replanting
and rural development, in addition to irrigation. The project now proposed,
together with research and credit projects currently being prepared, aim to
strengthen essential rural institutions, while rural development projects in
the North and Northeast represent initial efforts to assist the Government to
develop improved production technologies for rainfed areas. The livestock and
rubber projects are aimed at diversifying the sector, and increasing the produc-
tivity and incomes of poorer farmers.
Agricultural Extension Services
34.       The Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC) provides extension services for most
agricultural crops. Within MOAC, the Departments of Livestock Development,
Fisheries, Land Development and Cooperative Promotion provide these services
for animal husbandry and pasture and forage production, aquaculture, land
development, and the agricultural cooperatives, respectively. The Tobacco
Monopoly and at least one private company operate efficient extension
services for tobacco growers; in rubber replanting schemes, the Rubber
Replanting Aid Fund provides extension services to smallholders until the
second year of tapping; and some sugar factories provide a minimal extension
service to farmers growing cane on contract. Extension services provided by
different organizations do overlap in some districts, but efforts are being
made to ensure coordination.
35.       Although agricultural research in Thailand needs to be better
focussed and strengthened, available research information from both local and
overseas sources is disseminated by the extension service to the Thai farmers.
An objective of the agricultural research project currently being prepared
would be to strengthen and coordinate research, both at the national and
regional levels. One of the most pressing immediate needs in the project
provinces is the lack of experienced and pragmatic Subject Matter Specialists
(SMS). The present small pool of SMSs is unable to provide adequate technical
support to the district extension personnel, particularly in view of their
lack of access to transport. The SMSs also rarely have sufficient time to
mount training programs or to establish the regular contact with research
personnel needed to keep them informed of new developments. This is being
remedied under this project and the proposed national agricultural research
project.
36.       Under the first extension project (Loan 1393-TH) the overall
organization of DAE was strengthened, both at headquarters and in the six
geographic regions. The first extension project covers 33 of Thailand's 72
provinces and improved extension services have already been introduced in the
first 25. The last 8 provinces will be incorporated under that project by
the end of 1980. Under the national agricultural extension program, the



- 13 -
extension agent (EA) to farmer ratio is being improved from about 1:2,700 to
about 1:1,000 and a regular system of fortnightly staff training and visits
by EAs to farmer groups (training and visit system of extension) is being
introduced. Staff appointments have been satisfactory, with some 1,500
additional EAs having been appointed to date, and only in a few provinces with
a high security risk are the number of EAs short of targets. Staff training
programs are up to date and there is an excellent adherence to the strict
rounds of visits to farmer groups. Farmer response has also been encouraging.
Rates of adoption of extension recommendations have been greatest in areas
with a low risk of crop failure, but attempts to diversify cropping and to
improve cultural practices, especially with improved crop varieties, are also
successful in drought-prone areas. In four provinces in the Northeast, for
example, the area of dry-season rice has increased from 1,800 ha to 10,500 ha
producing an average yield of 3.1 ton/ha in 1978. For 1979 a total of almost
27,000 demonstration plots, mainly for rice, groundnuts, cotton, corn and mung
bean, are planned in 25 provinces. Other promoted activities which have been
quickly adopted are the production of straw mushrooms and home garden vege-
tables. Procurement under the first project is also progressing satisfactorily,
although the civil works program fell behind schedule in 1978 when the budget
proved inadequate for the planned construction program which was curtailed
after repeated attempts of retendering. The revised construction program is
expected to be completed on schedule by January 1980.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
37.       When it was found that the Government was able to implement the
national agricultural extension program at a rate of about ten provinces per
year, and that the initial results were favorable, the 39 provinces not
covered under the first phase requested a rapid provision of the same services
from the Government. Due to this local pressure and the encouraging field
results, the Government approached the Bank for support which would enable a
continued rate of expansion of about ten provinces per year. The second phase
project was prepared by a special project preparation team in the Department of
Agricultural Extension (DAE), with the assistance of a consultant, as part of
the first phase project. It was appraised in September 1978 and a postappraisal
mission was in Thailand in January 1979. Negotiations were held from June 25
to 29, 1979. The Government delegation was led by H.E. Klos Visessurakarn,
Thailand's Ambassador to the United States, assisted by Khun Yookti Sarikaphuti,
Director-General, DAE.
Project Description
38.       The proposed project would provide frequent and regular agricul-
tural extension services to some 2.3 million farm families in the 39 prov-
inces of Thailand not covered under the first project. The project includes:



- 14 -
(a) continued strengthening of the organization of DAE and establishing clear
lines of command and coordination from the national level to the districts;
(b) introducing sound extension methodology with emphasis on systematic
programming of activities and regular farm visits; (c) increasing the number
of extension staff and introducing a program of regular and continuous
training; and (d) establishing a monitoring system for continuous evaluation
of the program. To accomplish these objectives, the project provides for:
(i) the construction of regional training centers, provincial and district
extension centers, and housing for extension workers in remote areas;
(ii) the procurement of vehicles, equipment and materials; (iii) the employ-
ment of consultants; and (iv) a limited number of fellowships and overseas
training tours. Project details are provided in the report entitled
"Thailand - Appraisal of the Second National Agricultural Extension Project
(No. 2420-TH dated July 16, 1979) which is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. Supplementary project data are given in Annex III.
Organization and Management
39.       The proposed project will be implemented by DAE in close collabora-
tion with the provincial governments.  The Director General will be assisted
by three Deputy Directors General with clear functional responsibilities for
headquarters administrative divisions, technical and professional divisions,
and the nine extension regions and the training division, respectively. Under
the proposed project a new position of Deputy Director General for Extension
Operations and Training will be established, mainly for supervising and
coordinating the actual execution of extension services in the regions. For
ease of management, three of the present six regions will be subdivided so
that each of the nine regions will have seven or eight provinces. Each
region will be headed by a regional extension officer who will be responsible
for implementing all agricultural extension services through provincial and
district extension officers under his jurisdiction. To ensure overall
coordination and uniform implementation of the training and visit system of
extension, an Office of Inspectors will be established with nine Inspectors
appointed to act as advisers to the regional extension services; they
will report directly to the Director General. Project would be implemented
mainly by the Planning and Special Projects Division under the Deputy Director
General for Administrative Services. The present Training Section in the
Planning and Special Projects Division will be upgraded to a Training Division
and it will be responsible for the in-service training of all extension staff.
Satisfactory assurances have been received regarding the appointment of a
Deputy Director General for Extension Operations and Training by December 31,
1979, the establishment of a training division in DAE by March 31, 1980, and
the establishment, by March 31, 1980, of procedures satisfactory to the Bank
to ensure coordination and uniform implementation of a training and visit
system of agricultural extension nationwide (Sections 3.06 and 3.07 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
40.       As under the first extension project, field level extension ser-
vices will be organized and directed from the district extension center by a
district extension officer, assisted by a deputy, who together will be



- 15 -
responsible for supervising all EAs in the district. Each EA will generally
be responsible for extension activities in one subdistrict with about 10
villages and about 1,000 farm families. The actual number of villages per
subdistrict ranges from 5 to 14. The number of EAs assigned to a district
will depend on the number of villages, the distance and the difficulty of
terrain between the villages, and the homogeneity of farming activities in
the area. All EAs will be agricultural generalists with a five-year voca-
tional training and recruited, wherever possible, from rural areas. Home
Economics Agents (HEA), one per district, will work with women groups.
41.        Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) will function as trainers of all
district extension personnel and support them in their field work. SMSs will
divide their time equally between staff training, contact with research, and
field support of EAs. Initially, only two SMSs per province will be appointed,
one for crop production and one for crop protection. In the third and fourth
year, additional SMSs will be appointed for the major specialist crop in the
province (rubber, cotton, or horticulture) and for a major service such as farm
mechanization or farm management.
42.       A National Coordinating Committee for Agricultural Extension was
established under the first extension project to coordinate the activities of
DAE with related programs administered by other agencies, such as those
providing extension services in specialized fields, or those affecting the
supply of inputs and irrigation water, the provision of credit, produce
marketing or land development. This Committee, chaired by the Under Secretary
of State for Agriculture, will continue to function and has already reviewed
and approved all details of the proposed project.
Extension Methodology
43.        The project provinces include some 7 million ha of farm land (mainly
rainfed) of which about 5.3 million is harvested annually. The average farm
size is 4.7 ha and about 60% of the harvested area is planted to rice, 10% to
maize, 5% to cassava, 4% to sugarcane, 12% to rubber and 9% to other food and
industrial crops, fruit and vegetables. Extension services will attempt to
convey simple improvements in agricultural practices to the 2.3 million
families farming this land. Such advice will concentrate on the production of
rice, cassava, maize, kenaf, cotton and mung beans, although emphasis will
initially be placed on one or two major crops in each region. Advice will
cover the entire production cycle, including selecting appropriate seed
varieties and sources, obtaining correct plant stands, selecting appropriate
fertilizers and pesticides and applying them correctly, preliminary processing
of output (i.e. chipping cassava or retting kenaf) to a reasonable standard of
quality to ensure marketability, obtaining institutional credit at reasonable
interest rates and marketing. This focussing of extension effort on a few
critical practices relating to the major local crops, and on aspects where the
probability of quick results is greatest - such as planting the best available
crop varieties at the correct time and the suitable plant density or control-
ling pests and diseases - will improve the chances of holding the interest and
enthusiasm of both the farmers and the extension workers.



- 16 -
Staffing and Training
44.       To ensure that DAE has sufficient manpower at various levels,
extension personnel in the 39 project provinces will be increased signifi-
cantly. Most importantly, a total of about 1,800 additional staff, of which
about 1,200 would be EAs and 240 HEAs, will be recruited, improving the
effective ratio of district extension personnel to farm families within the
proposed project provinces from approximately 1:2,200 to 1:1,000.  To provide
the needed technical training of field staff, an additional 120 SMSs would be
employed, while the organization of technical instruction sessions and train-
ing programs would be carried out by a provincial training officer. Adequate
candidates both for extension and support are, or will be, available from
university graduates and vocational school diplomates. The Government
has given appropriate assurances regarding the staffing of the project
(Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
45.       On appointment, all staff assigned to the proposed project will
undergo a two- to eight-week preservice orientation course. District extension
officers and EAs will undergo about two weeks of annual in-service training,
in addition to their fortnightly technical instruction sessions. Courses for
EAs would focus on the practical agricultural problems faced by farmers in the
region and technically simple solutions to those problems, while those for
district extension officers will also include administrative problems and
practices. Where possible, trainees will participate in demonstrations to
gain a full appreciation of the work involved. SMSs will attend annual four-
to six-week courses in specialized agricultural disciplines.
Monitoring and Evaluation
46.       To gauge the results of the extension methodology employed, a
special monitoring unit was established under the first extension project.
The unit is jointly supervised by the Chief of the Division of Agricultural
Economics in MOAC and the Chief of Planning and Specal Projects Division in
DAE. It receives technical and computer assistance from the National Statis-
tics Office and from the Australian Develoment Assistance Bureau which is
providing technical assistance in the design of questionnaires and the analysis
and interpretation of data. The monitoring unit will continue to operate but
the method of survey, the structure of the questionnaire, and the method of
data analysis will be refined in early 1980 following a thorough review of
results obtained under the first extension project. Project monitoring and
evaluation will be carried out under procedures agreed with the Bank
(Section 3.04(d) of draft Loan Agreement).
Extension Centers and Housing
47.       Two new regional training centers will be constructed under the
proposed project in the eastern and (upper) southern regions. These facilities
will form the administrative and training centers for each of the regions
and will include classroom accommodation for about 60 students, office
accommodation for all training staff, regional supervisory staff and regional
SMSs. Twelve housing units will be provided at each center. All other



- 1 7 -
regions will have adequate training facilities once the first project is
completed. Thirty-nine combined provincial and district extension centers
and 271 district extension centers will also be constructed. Each provincial
extension center will provide office accommodation for about 25 provincial
and district extension staff, a meeting hall, and storage facilities for
training and demonstration material. District extension centers will provide
office space for about four district staff, a meeting room, and storage space
for extension field equipment. In addition, some 310 housing facilities
(each including three apartments) will be constructed for EAs in remote
areas, where housing is difficult to obtain. All project buildings will be
constructed to standardized designs.
Vehicles and Equipment
48.       Each of the 2,300 EAs and all HEAs and deputy district extension
officers in the project provinces will be provided with a small motorcycle to
assure the mobility required to meet the schedule of field visits, training
and supervision. Regional, provincial and district extension offices will be
provided with vehicles, which will be used to transport training personnel
and materials, as well as experiment and demonstration equipment. Government
workshops, which are available in most of the districts, will be used for
maintenance and repair of all project vehicles and equipment, supplemented by
private workshops where necessary. The Government will make motorcycles,
financed under the project, available to DAE extension agents and other
eligible staff under a hire-purchase scheme, which was introduced under the
first project and which is satisfactory to the Bank. Basic office and
training furniture and equipment will be provided for the regional training
centers and provincial and district extension centers to be constructed under
the project, and for existing centers where they are lacking.
Consultant Services
49.       Agricultural Extension.  As under the first phase project, DAE will
engage an agricultural consulting firm to assist with the implementation of
the proposed project under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The
firm will provide a team leader experienced in agricultural extension to
assist in overall project implementation at DAE headquarters, and six extension
consultants to serve as advisors in the regions. The present team leader has
been engaged until mid-1981, and he or his replacement will be required under
the proposed project until June 30, 1983. Each region will also be provided
with an additional two years of services by an extension consultant. A total
of 207 man-months of consulting services will be required, of which about
half are expected to be provided by foreign consultants and half local.
Based on present consulting contracts the cost per man-month, including local
costs, is estimated at $5,000 for local consultants and $8,000 for expatriate
consultants.
50.       Civil Works.  A local engineering firm with expertise in architec-
ture will be employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank to
assist DAE in the site surveys, preparation of tender documents and contracts,
and supervision of construction of the centers. Consultant costs are estimated



- 18 -
and supervision of construction of the centers. Consultant costs are estimated
at 4% of construction costs. Sufficient suitable government land is available
and will be transferred to the project six months before construction commences
at each of the center and housing sites.
Fellowships and Overseas Training
51.       The proposed project includes a fellowship and training program to
improve the quality of extension staff, particularly that of the SMSs, but
also that of some EAs and supervisory staff. This program will award two or
three fellowships per annum to overseas universities, and a further 10 SMSs
per year will follow specific subject matter courses of about 6 months' dura-
tion in neighboring countries. Candidates will be selected for such programs
as the rice production and multiple cropping courses at the International
Rice Research Institute in the Philippines and the vegetable production train-
ing course conducted by the Asia Vegetable Research and Development Center in
the Republic of China. Recipients of long-term fellowships will be obligated
to remain in government service for twice the duration of their fellowships,
in accordance with present regulations. About 120 extension personnel will
participate in short-term study tours to other Asian countries will be
provided for promising extension workers to observe innovative and successful
farm practices and extension work.
Project Costs and Financing
52.       The total project costs are estimated at $70.0 million, of which
$22.0 million or 31% represents foreign exchange. Incremental operating
costs, including salaries for new staff positions and operating and mainte-
nance costs of project buildings and equipment, are included in project
costs. All prices are expressed at June 1979 levels. Physical contingencies
of 10% are included for civil works, furniture and equipment because of: the
large number and the wide geographic spread of centers and houses to be
built; the need to allow some flexibility in meeting the requirements of the
different centers; and the different types of extension, training, and
experimental equipment required for the various agricultural enterprises in
the provinces. Expected price increases due to inflation amount to about 19%
of total project costs and assume the following annual inflation rates: for
salaries 5% (1980-84); for equipment, services and incremental operating
costs 6% (1980-84); and for civil works 12% (1980), 10% (1981), 9% (1982) and
8% (1983-84). Taxes of $4.2 million are included in project costs.
53.       The proposed Bank loan of $40 million, equivalent to 61% of total
project costs net of taxes and duties, would cover the foreign exchange re-
quirement of $22 million and $18 million of the local cost of the project.
The Government will finance the remaining $30 million. Annual operating costs
for DAE attributable to the two extension projects will amount to about $21
million (constant June 1979 prices at project completion); this is equal to
about 5% of MOAC's total budget for FY79. The Government has confirmed that
sufficient funds will be provided after project completion to ensure the
program continues to be adequately staffed and operated (Section 4.04 of draft
Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
Procurement
54.       All civil works (with a total cost of about $23.0 million) would be
grouped, to the extent practicable, into suitably sized contract packages of
$100,000 or more to permit efficient execution and supervision. They would
not be suitable for international competitive bidding because individual
buildings are small and dispersed, both geographically and over time. These
contracts will be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with government procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
There is adequate competition among local contractors for works of this kind
and size. Foreign firms would also be allowed to bid. In provinces where it
is difficult to obtain suitable bids because of security and/or isolation,
prudent shopping (in accordance with local procedures) requiring three price
quotations from reputable construction firms would be allowed.
55.       DAE will be responsible for the procurement of vehicles and equip-
ment. Standard items to be purchased in volume, including about $4.9 million
worth of vehicles and $2.5 million of equipment and materials, will be
grouped in large tender packages (averaging about $250,000) and procured
following international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. A preference margin amounting to 15% of the c.i.f. price of
imported goods or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. To permit flexi-
bility in procurement, items costing less than $15,000 each, but not exceeding
$500,000 in total, may be procured on the basis of prudent shopping locally,
including a minimum of three price quotations from reputable suppliers.
Specialized items to be purchased in small quantities (such as equipment for
field experiments and home economics) worth a total of about $800,000 and
furniture worth a total of about $400,000, will be purchased following local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursements
56.       Disbursements will be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment, materials and furniture; 100%
of the ex-factory price of such items manufactured locally, and 65% of total
expenditures for items procured locally. For consulting services, overseas
training and fellowships, disbursements will be at the rate of 100% of total
cost. Disbursements for civil works will be at 74% of total expenditures,
submitted by DAE after certification by the consulting firm. It is expected
that disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1985.
Benefits and Risks
57.       The proposed project will reach about 2.3 million farm families,
who cultivate some 3.1 million ha of rice (46% of Thailand's total) and
about 2.3 million ha of other food, oil, fiber and vegetable crops. Yields
of most crops are low and considerable increases could be achieved if farmers
made use of available knowledge and inputs. All farmers stand to benefit
from direct or indirect contact with extension workers, who will convey the
most practical and profitable advice for their crop production enterprises,



- 20 -
but the poorest farmers stand to gain the most from the proposed project.  In
the past, extension services have been provided mainly on request; typically,
the better educated and more affluent farmers, who have better contacts and
capital to invest in inputs, have availed themselves of these services to a
much greater extent than have the mass of poorer smallholders. As the
proposed project is designed to reach all smallholders in the project provinces,
no matter how remote from provincial and district capitals, the gap in
productivity between smallholders and better educated farmers should be
narrowed by the project. Project costs average about $32 per farm family and
$13 per ha, and the incremental annual operating costs at project completion
are low at about $4.70 per farm family and $1.90 per ha.
58.       It is not realistic to attempt to quantify precisely the proposed
project benefits since it is impossible to determine what proportion of the
expected benefits from improved agricultural practices is due to extension
alone, and what is due to additional purchased inputs, to a greater input of
labor by the farmer and his family, or to improved irrigation. In practice,
it is a combination of these which provides increased yields and farmer
income, with the extension service playing a catalytic role. The determina-
tion of acceptance rates of recommended practices is also extremely difficult
because farmers may adopt some, but not all, recommendations. A hypothetical
rate of return calculation does indicate the order of magnitude of benefits
the proposed project would need to generate. In order to realize a 15%
economic rate of return, the incremental production value per hectare would
have to amount to $4.20 per year for all crops on a total area of 5.4 million
ha from 1988 onwards. For paddy, which is grown on 59% of the proposed
project area, this translates to an increase of about 26 kg/ha (based on an
average 1978 economic price for paddy of $165/ton).  The estimated benefits
are conservative as the yield potential of rainfed paddy using present
knowledge and limited inputs is estimated at 2,200 kg/ha, while an increase
of only 26 kg/ha by 1988 (or an average total yield of 1,914 kg/ha) have been
projected. These latter figures should be relatively easy to obtain when
improved varieties, increased rates of fertilizer usable and improved cultural
practices are introduced and adopted by farmers. Since many farmers grow two
crops per year in irrigated areas, upland crops on nonpaddy soils, or secondary
crops following the main crop, the potential benefit from improved extension
activities is considerably greater than that assumed for paddy alone.
59.       With a relatively low investment and low annual operating cost per
family, which could be easily justified even with a modest increase in
yields, the risks associated with the proposed project relate mainly to the
rate and degree to which extension recommendations are adopted by
farmers. These variables will therefore come under continuous, close
scrutiny during project implementation as part of the monitoring and evalu-
ation program and by frequent Bank supervision missions.
Environmental Effects
60.       Extension personnel will be continuously trained to give advice
on appropriate chemicals for pest and vermin control, on maintenance of the
level of soil fertility, and on soil conservation practices. It is expected
that the proposed project will therefore have a beneficial effect on the
environment.



- 21 -
Role of Women
61.       The proposed project will have considerable impact on women in the
farming communities served by the extension service. Traditionally, farmers'
wives have had considerable influence on the decision-making process for
general farm activities and, in particular, for the purchase of seeds and
other inputs. Women also form the main source of labor during planting,
weeding and harvesting and the introduction of new crop varieties and new
crop production technology could actually decrease their workload. The EAs
and the HEAs will therefore need to focus their efforts on the farmers'
wives and other women in rural communities. About 15-25% of the SMSs and EAs
in any particular province are women. In addition, all HEAs are women who
are specifically trained for advisory services in home economics.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and
the Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
63.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments                                          by Ernest Stern
July 23, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                            Annex I
TABLE 3A                                         Page  1  of  5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (AnJuSTED AyERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                   THAILAND                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL             514.0                                                    SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      179.6                                 MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                   100.0        200.0     420.0            450.6      430.3        926.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       64.0        247.0      308.0           371.1       262.1        730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       26.4        35.7       43.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.0          13.0       14.0             27.4       24.6         49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         69.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          105.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        51.0         69.0       84.0           154.8        45.3         44.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    204.0         251.0      244.0           566.7       149.0        140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.7         46.2       45.0            41.3        45.2         41.3
15-64 YRS.                          52.6         50.8       52.0            54.9        51.9         55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.7          3.0        3.0              3.3        2.8          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.8         3.0        2.8              2.4        2.7          2.4
URBAN                               5.1          3.6        3.5              4.3        4.3          4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.0        42.0       32.0             30.2       39.4         31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       17.0         12.0       8.0              8.3       11.7          9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          3.2        2.2              2.1        2.7          2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       203.0/k   527.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    .,          27.4       32.3             34.1       13.2         34.;
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           68.0        100.0      110.0           106.2        99.6        104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    96.0        103.0      107.0           104.1        94.7        105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           43.5         52.2       50.0            57.4        54.3         64.4
UF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         8.4           ..       14.6             16.9       17.4         23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       15.0         9.0        6.0              4.8       11.4          8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0          57.0       61.0             61.1       54.7         60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..        86.0/1    68.0              46.6       68.1         46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        17.0       22.0             21.9       34.4         60.8
URBAN                                ..           ..       49.0             46.2       57.9         75.7
RURAL                                ..           ..       12.0             12.8       21.2         40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         17.0       40.0             28.4       40.8         46.0
URBAN                                ..         65.0       58.0             65.0       71.3         46.0
RURAL                                ..          8.0       36.0             14.7       27.7         22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            7800.0      8420.0    8370.0            3790.5     6799. 4      2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4900.0       3340.0    1510.0            1107.4     1522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1340.0/f     890.0      800.0            613.3      726.5        453.4
URBAN                                ..        280.0      240.0            203.6      272.7        253.1
RURAL                                 *-      1380.0    1290.0            1110.3     1404.4       2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         31.0      33.0             23.9        27.5        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.5/f       5.8        5.5              5.2        5.4          5.3
URBAN                                5.3/f       5.9        5.5               ..        5.1          5.2
RURAL                                5.6/f       5.8        5.5              ..         5.5          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..        2.4               ..         ..          1.9
URBAN                                 ..          ..        2.2               ..         ..          1.6
RURAL                                 ..          ..        2.4              ..          ..          2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..       24.6               ..       28.1         50.0
URBAN                                 ..        63.0/g       ..               ..       45.1         71.7
RURAL                                 ..         13.0        ..               ..        9.9         17.3



- 23 -                                             Annex I
TABLE 3A                                          Page  2  of  5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                  REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 83. 0       81.0       83.0            97.9        82.7       102.5
MALE                 88.0         85.0      86.0             98.7       87.3        108.6
FEMALE               79.0         77.0      79.0             97.4       75.8         97.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 12.0        18.0       26.0            42.2        21.4        33.5
MALE                  15.0        21.0      29.0             46.7       33.0         38.4
FEMALE                9.0         15.0      22.0             40.9       15.5         30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)    19.0          24.0      13.0             12.5        9.8        11.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.0        35.0       30.0            32.5        34.1        35.8
SECONDARY                          20.0        16.0       21.0            25.8        23.4        22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        68.0         79.0      82.0            84.1        54.0        64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         5.0        6.4             6.1         9.3        13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0        78.0      131.0            84.4        76.9       122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.3         7.0       17.0            22.4        13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0        24.0         *-            24.2        18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..       1.7             3.6         2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    12757.0      16163.0   18514.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   48.3        47.3       46.9            36.7        29.2        25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.7        79.9       77.0            54.6        62.7        43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.4         6.0         8.0           16.3        11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.3        46.6       45.6            40.7        37.1        33.5
MALE                                 52.7        49.3       48.6            49.9        48.8        48.0
FEMALE                               49.8        43.9       42.6            31.0        20.4        16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.1       1.1              1.1        1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/h       23.8/i    14.0/j           14.9        15.2        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9/h       49.7/i    42.2/j           46.8        48.2        52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.27h        6.1/i      7.6/j           6.2         6.3         3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.97h       15.971    19.1/4           16.8        16.3        12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      126.0           193.1       241.3       270.0
RURAL                                ..          ..       94.0           128.7       136.6       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      115.0           136.8       179.7       282.5
RURAL                                ..          ..      108.0            96.8       103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..       15.0            32.0        24.8        20.5
RURAL                                ..           ..      34.0            52.5        37.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle
Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976)     I /f  1962;  /g  Percent of population in Bangkok metropolitan
area;   /h  1962-63;   /i  1968;   /j  Preliminary data for 1975/76, due to lack of data on national
basis, the methodology for aggregating the available regional data overstates incomes of low income
groups and understates income of higher income groups.  Thus, this data is not suitable for any
analytical comparisons;   /k  Government;   /1  1964-1965.
Nay, 1979



- 24 -                                                                   Annex I
DEFINlTIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                    0ccv    of  5
St    The ud)ssted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric mama, excluding the extreme values oL the indicator ad the .os
populated country to each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not  Doio                 . Ice to la k of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of acesa  to water and excreta diapmal              a hosing, income distributior and poverty are
simple populatieo-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thuosand nq. t)                                                             Population  er hospital bed - total, urhan, and rural - Population itutu:,
total - Total surface area cu-prising laud area and inland vters,                       urban, and rural) divided by their respecctio  nuober of hospital beds
Agriculturul -  -ost recent estimate of agricultural  area used teep-artly              available in public and private gesarul and specioli-ed hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                  habilitatin  enters.  Hospitals are establisbhents permanently staffed by
lie falla,                                                                            at laaat ine physicias.   Establishrents pron-ding principally cutsdial
care are not included. ural hospitals, however, include heaLth and medi-
IMP PER CAPITA (USI) - GNP per capita estirates at  urrent markot prices,                c1  eetees not permaoently staffed by a physiciac (but by o  edical us
calculated by sa=e conversn to  mthod as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);            aiatant, nurse, aidwife, etc.) which offer in-patieet acco=odation and
1960, 197C, a-d 1977 data.                                                            provide a limited range of medical facilities
Ad.isaiona per hoapita1 bed - Total number of  doissions to or diuch-g-s
ENERGY CONSUiMPTiQN PER CAPITA - Annual -oosutpion of  -oamercial energy                 from hospitals divided by the ombe  of buds.
(ccci and lignite, petroleum-, natural gs and hydro-, nuclear and gnu-
thormal eloctricity) in kilogrems of  oal equivalent per  apita.                 HOUSING
Average aie of house hold' .oer.o. nor h,uool)-  oa,  urhan,,  -dA rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL SITATISTICS                                                         A h-uahod consiats of a group of individu     wh  s          tlivurb   uanrters
Total copulation. mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                 ad their min seals.  A boarder or lodger  ay or may not be inluded in
average of re end-pear estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data                           the bou*hold far atatistigl puposes   Stattical d finitions of house-
Urhan population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                   hold vary.
tion; different definitious of urban areas nay affect coparability                 Avecaga musher of perasm. per room - tot al, urba, and erol - Average our-
of dana amoon coutn ie-                                                               bar of parsons per room in all, urbam, and rural  occupied c--n etioc..
Population density                                                                      duellinga, respectively.  Dwelliogs occlude  -on-pero-aent s tr-otures and
Per  s   kt. - Mid-year population per square kilo=eter (100 hectares)                 unocupied parts.
of total area.                                                                     Accaa te eletriiity (percent of dveLlings) - tcoal, urban, and eural -
Per sq. to   griculture land - Computed au above for agricultural land                 Convantional dwellings with electricity in living quarters us percentage
only,                                                                                 of total, urban, and rural dwellings re-pe-tiuely.
Population ago structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percetnages of mid-            EDUCATION
year population.                                                                  Adjusted een lent ratios
Population growth rate (por-ent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                 Primary school - total, and female - Total and fe=ale ensolmrnt of all ages
growth rates of total a-d urban mid-year populations for 195I-60,                     at the primary level as per entages of respectiuelv primary sl 1  ol-uge
1960-70, and  970-75.                                                                 populations; norralIy includes children aged 6-11 ypears hut adjuted fur
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                    different Lengths of primary education; for cuo.tries vith u            Iioersal edu-
mid-your population; ron-pear arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                  cation enrolmaent may exceed 100 percent since  ome pupils are below or
1570 and fine-pear average ending in 1971 for mot reent estimate                     above the official shool age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Ansual deaths per thousand of mid-                  Secoodary school - total, and female - Corputod as o .ove; s.ccndary edc--
year popclation; ten-year arith,etic averages endiug in 1960 and 1970                 tion requires at least four years of approned primary insttuctioo; pm-
und five-near average ending in 1975 for nest recent eoinate,                         video general nocational, or teaher traicing ict-ructiosa for pupils
Cross roprodctiod   rate-Average number of daughters a woman will bear                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correopunde ce courses are generally
ir her -ormal -eproductine period if she eaperiences preuent age-                    excluded.
spetific fertility rates; usually five-pear averagns ending In 1960,               Vocational enrollment fPerce-t of secoodar-) - Tccational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                       dIude technical, industrial, or other pr-gcaes which operate independentln
Family plauing -o aceptors, annual (thousands)  - Annual cmber of                       or as dapartoenta of sacoudary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspicen of national family              Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total  tudenrts enrolled in
plonning program.                                                                     priry and secondary levels divided by onhbers of teachers in the corre-
Pa=ily plarning - users (percent uf married women) - Percentago of                      aponding levels.
married wooer of child-hearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control            Adult literaco rate (percent) - Literate adul-  (able  to toad and wr-te  as
denices to all married wonen in same age group.                                       a percemtage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NLTRITION                                                                  CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                Paaaenger cars (per thousand population) - Pausenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food comodities.                                    Leating lens th.; eight persons: excludes ambulances,  hearses and milinary
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from               ve-hiels.
e-ergy eqai-alent of net food supplies available in country per capita            Radio receivers (per thoosand popula.ion) - A'l types of receivers for radio
yer day.  Aveilable supplies comprise do=entic production, imports less             broadcasts to  general public per thocsand of population; esclodes unliceosed
expor-t, and changes in stock,  Nee supplier exelude animal feed, seeds,            receiveru in countries and in yeara vhen registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food prunessing, and looses In distributIon.  Re-                effect; data for racent years may sot be comparable since east countries
qaire=ents were es-tiated by FAO boned on physiological needs for sot-              abolished liceesing.
mal activity and health considering environmental te=pertatue, body               T' receivers (per thousand populatio-) - Tv receivers for broadcast to gecredr
rights, age and see diotributioms of population. and allwieg IO per-                public per thocsasd polatio n; exclud-s cv Icovued TV receivers  n coar-
cent TEo  waste at hoasehold level.                                                   tries and in years vhee registratnon of Tv ctes  -s  in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protnis cootent of per                Ne.spaper circulation (ner thousand ponulatico) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supplyoly of fd p   dy            ppy of food Is defined us                tion of  doily general interest nevspaper, defined as a periodical pobli-
above.  Riquiro..nts foe  all couniries established by UDA provide for                cation devoted prinarily to recording general evs.  T I-c -scsidered to
a minirr al.owance of 60 grams of total protoin per day and I0 groom                  be "daily  If it appears ot lust fonr tines a -eek.
of anima' and pulse prorein, of whih 10 grams should be ami=al protein.           Cinema astual atIendance per cpita per year - faced on tie number cL tickets
Chest standards are  lower than those of 71 gorms of total protein and                sold during the pear, including ud=issiuns cc dr:.e-i cineeas cnd robice
23 gratc uf animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                   .eits.
FAC in the Third World Pood S-rvey.
Per capita pr-tein supply from  onial and pulse - Protein supply of food           IfPLOYMIET
derived from asimals uan  polses in gramu per day.                                 Total laber fotre Ithous.ada) - Ecusonocally actioe p-rsons, includisg arred
Child (uges 1-c) =oriality rate (per th.ousad) - An-mal deaths per thoas-               forcs and unamployad but secluding houmei,ese, atudents, etc.  Defini-
and in ago geoup 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                            tIoma in various countriaa ace not coapearble.
Fs1ae (sarCcat) - FPale  labor force  pe parceetaga of total labor force.
HEALIT                                                                               A4ricultura  (per.eet) - Lsbor force in farming, forestry, huntiag and fishing
Life enpoctnncv at birth (yects) - Ava.uge nunnber of Toots cf life                     ma paroantags of total labor force.
ream ing as birtn; usually fiva-yoar averagas ending in 1960,1970,                 Ir4ustey (maccnt) - Laban force ih einisg, construction,  nufacrutiog and
and 197).                                                                             alactricity,  aat" and ga as percentage of total labor forcu.
Ilesnt  orcaliiy nato (pee thousah d) - Annual deaths of infasts under               Particieatiom  rate (parcant) - total,  al, and female - Tot.lt, mle, and
oo your of age per thouand live birhts.                                               Fsa   labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Acces       l         (pofentc of ppulati on)   total, urb-n, and rural -               Thaa  a re TOft'  adjustepatipation rates reflecting ae-se
uNiber of"-piel  (total, urbus, cdrrl   ihraoal   cest                                 t ercrt  ofth  popltotin._sd lung tIme trend.
cufe outer supply (Includes trea      sucwter r              reated but            E-onoslo depesdmn-y ratio - aoti. of populatirn under IS and hS an - oen I,
ncounta.niacod water such as that from protected boreholes, spriogs,                  the labor force in  ge group of '5-64 yeers.
a-d sanitary  el-ls) us percentages of their respec-tie populations.
-c as oroan  area a public fountain or studp-ost located not m.re                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
thou 200 meters Iron a house may he considered as being withic tea-                Parcantage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by rinhest 5
-o-able access of that hou.e.  Tn rural areas reasonable access would                 peteant0 richoss 20 percent, poorest 20 pernent, and poorest 40 perrent
luply rIot tnb  .oasewifo or mehbers of the household do not have to                  of household.
spend a disprupcrtionate part of the day in fenching the family's
water coeds.                                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
tess tno tex c-t  dis-o-sal (poe-ernt of popalation) - tutal, urban, a         nd   Eatiatd absolute pvart! incom e lene ('.S per capita    -              and - ur-
rural -  uN:ber of people (tucal, urban, and  ururl) served by eucreta                  Abselute poverty income level is that incoe _evel_ celon ah.c  a ninivo
dlspsosl us yereuntages ufo b thic reepec tine populations.  Cnena                    nutritionally adequate diet plus essential _on-foo-  re.q-cre-ts 5 5v
disposal may i-clude the ccllectio- and disposal, with 00 wIthout                     affordable.
teateent, uf hu=an  -crtoa and waste-water hywater-boe spytems                    E.tited relative p-verty inco  level (USO spa  capita)   urban ant rura-
or the use of pit privies and stellar installiations.                                 R lative poverty imoeme level is that income level less tho.  one-third
Population nec  bhvsician - Population divided by somber of practicing                  pee capita persona incom    f the cntry.
physicia_s q_alified from  a medical school at uiniersity lvel.                    Estimted pooplacion bdov pev-rty income level (percent) - urbas and rural -
fuculuti  n sec nursing person - Population divided by nu-ber of                        Percent of population (urban and rural) who ore either "absolute poor' or
practicing cole and fer.ale graduate curses, prctnical nurses, and                     relative poor" whichever is greater.
Economic and Socia. Itat Division
Economic Analysis cud Projectiuns oepnarnnt



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actual                                          Projected          -1957   Growth rates (0)                 -  1975 shar
1965       1970       1976       1977       1978 /a     1979       1990        1985   1          1977-79  1979-85   985-90  of G97  (hr
A.  Natonal Acocoets
(Million  USS at 1'7$ prices)
1.  Croon domestic product           6,84:2.8  10,323.0  15,712.6  16,6R9.5  18,138.9  19,395.2  20,692.9  29,256.7             7.7        7.8       7.1       7.0        100.0
2.  Cins iLron terms of trade          -41.3       42.8    -507.7    -.78.1        -704.3    -572.9    -533.8    -518.2                                                     -3.2
3.  Coons domestic  iscome          6.799.5  10,365.8  15,204.9  15,707.4  17,434.6  18,822.3  20,159.1  28,738.5               7.2       9.5        7.3       7.0         96.8
4.  Imports                          1,559.9   2,989.4   3,699.1   4,460.8   4,896.8   5,082.8   5,440.4    7,507.8             8.6        6.7       6.7       6.8          23.5
5.  Eoports - soluem                -1,595.2  -2,274.8  -3,808.4  -4,506.9  -4,641.3  -4,481.1  -4,862.1  -7,448.5    9.1                -0.3        8.8       8.7          24.2
6.  Expotts - adjosted for TOT  -1,548.9  -2,317.5  -3,300.7  -3,528.8  -3,937.0  -3,908.1  -4,328.3  -6,930.3                   7.1       5.2      10.0       8.8          21.0
'   R-sourre gap - ad(osted
for TOT                         111.0       671.9      398.4      932.1      959.8   1,174.7   1,112.1          577.5                                                 2.5
H.  Total onsumpce                  5,301.3    9,007.0  11,709.5  12,370.3  13,579.1  14,809.7  15,740.4  21,253.9              7.3       9.4       6.:       6.1          74.5
9.  Innesiseot                       1,605.2   3,030.6   3,893.8   4,269.2   4,815.3   5,187.2    5,530.8   8,092.0              8.5      10.2       7.9       7.5          24.8
.10.  National savings                1,579.4    2,500.8   3,477.7   3,312.5   3,794.2    3,970.7   4,300.3    7,037.7           6.4        9.5      10.0       9.6          22.1
11.  DOnestlc savings od)s-teo
for lIT                       1,491.2   2,399.7    1,495.5   3,337.1    3,855.S   4,012.6    4,418.7   7,484.6    6.9               9.7      10.9       9.3          22.2
1I.  GOP at  arrent 1602 4,55.9    6.5433   16,384.3  16,156.9  21,881.9  '4,093.0  77,401.6  55,355.9   13.3                              15.2      14.9      1.
B.  Se.;r  xt Prot
(Share c  GDP)                   4,052.9   6,543.3  16,284.3  18,156.9  21,881.9  24,093.0  27,401.6  55,355.9   13.3                 15.2      14.9       13.4
1.  kgrtiul-tore                        0.391      0.346      0.3r51      0.281      0.271      0.264       0.258      0.229
.Indust,                            0.208      0.227      0.269      0.288       0.299      0.304      (.309       0.335
3-rLcc-                             0.401      0.427      0.430      0.431       0.430      0.432      0.432       0.437
P . r =ees (I975 -1 001)
I   EFxp.rr 1,i e i,d-e                 46.43      48.04      91.65       89.35     103.13     113.40      123.48     172.32     5.6      12.7        7.2       5.1
2 .  Inport P,ri ,e indee               47.76      47.15      105.75     114.12     121.5P      130.03     138.71     185.20      7.5       6.7       6.1       5.0
oTers  of trade ieden               97.27     101.98      96.67       78.30      84.83      87.21       89.02      93.04    -1.8       5.5        1.1       0.1
' .',P lef (or or ('S)              59.22      63.19     103.64      108.82     116.07     124.22     132.42      189.21     5.2       6.8        7.3       6.0
*    ,1n-   -err -ge enrhonge tate  20.80      20.90      20.40      20.40
r,.  0eŽ   t ted Indi Colers                      L965-77  1977-79  1979-85  1985-9Q
1.  ICOR                                      3.56      3.32      3.80      3.97
2.  Import nIanticta                          1.09      0.87      0.95      0.97
3.  -verag,o n-ional sa-negs rote             0.24      0.20      0.23      0.26
4.    argisa-  n         -atIonal navisgs rate  0.18    0.25      0.32      0.35
3.  Impo rts/CS?                              0.27      0.26      0.26      0.26
6.   nve-st-rft'GDP                           0.27      0.26      0.27      0.28
7.  Res-u-o  galp/CDP                         2.04      0.06      0.04      0.01
Value added /b                          Labor for.e It   -                    V.A. per w         borker /  /c
F.  2ut,jut,1Iabor .70cr                                            S$d Pto _ct n  1975  US$ million  %       Million               s                 U55             X of average
1.  kgnicultort                                                    4,559              31.3                13.4               75.7                341)                 41.5
2.  Indu stry                                                      4,442              30.4                 1.4                7.9              3,170                 356.7
3.  iervIces                                                       5,588              38.3                 2.9               16.4              1,93S                 235.4
Lotl /o ena-LA 14,589                                                          130.0               17.7              100.0                 820                100.0
I.      Lc f--a,-  out CP)                        LI)961      1970        974       1975       1976        1977/a
(CoC-tal Government)
I.  Current rerenue                           L3.5       13.8       14.5        13.6       13.4      14.6
2.  2am revenu                                12.1       12.5       13.5        12.0   ~ 2.1         13.3
3.  G-rre-l. e-j-idlet-ren                    12.5       12.6       10.7        x2.1       .3.0      12.5
4.  Fudgetary  orin,go                         2.9        1.2         3.7        I.5        3.4        1.1
5.  fotol pubLLc  tsveL-nero                   b.S        7.7        3.8         4.9        5.3        5.4
G.   unl  Io,LorLCfurrmno uS$L miliOals)         tS.0       112.0      52K.o      7a1.7       833.7      923.0
(% ot total imDports  tnsl. sfS)               8.3        8.3       Ib.4        20.0       21.1       19.7
ta erellslsary.
/b  At corneat market prices.
/c  Estiate.



- 26  -ex I
P.&. 5 If5
BALANCE OF PAYMENITS. EXTER9AL. AOSSITA2SCE. DENT AND CNEDOTWOJThIE9BES
(Current 305 m3illions)
1973        1974         1975        1976        1977        1978 /a      1979         1980          1985        .990
Expoarts oTncluding N>; I'S)eot:                      Z,084.7     3,025.4      2,796.5     3,490.6     4,029.3      4,786.6     5,081.7       6,004:C   :2,B35.0        24,967.7
I.mp rts (itnldli  N9;S)                              2,258.3     3,353.2      3,487.3      3,911.9     5,093.8     5,903.5     6,609.1       7,540.'    13.904.        24,653.4
Resource balance                                       -_73.6      -327.8        690.9      -421.3   -1,064.4   -1.166.9   -1,527.4    -1?2.7             -1.069.5          327.3
Net t actor ac rlc:  cluccac                            -20-8        -0.7          5.4       -41.6        -72.5      -143.2      -134.3        -2.3.c        -97250    -I.412.
9cr Interest poyneclts                                  7.3)       36.0         69.3        76.1        -4.2        -7398       -81.7        -297.5        -266.9     -, 70.7
0f ahbOn  0n pobic M 6 .LT Iou..                   -25          -28.1       -34.5        -44.3       -64.5       -100.2      -133.1        -124.5        -497.2       -89.0
Direct itnvett n ct   .co.e                           -28.0       -37.0        -64.0       -66.1        -68.5       -72.4      -              -93.3        -192.5       -290.3
WorkensrnrittavOcecl (neil                              0.0         0.0          0.0         0.3          0.3         0.0         22.9         24.3          34.4         49.2
Torrent t1ansfees (OrE)                                 145.        241.0         90.1        22.8         39.3        68.7         80.          90.3         290.0         220.0
balao_e oDn concocrit sctl:oott                         -48.9       -87.5      -605.3       -440.1  _-1,097.6   -1,241.4   -1,581.7          -1,726.1     -1,894.5        -985.
Fr*nate dccxct Inoessnest                                67.0       135.6         85.5        79.1        106.1        42.5        140.0        126.8         276.3        487.0
(rants t grunt-like ilons                                 9.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          O.0           0.0           0)9
Public M 4 LT louawn
Olscorseonntt                                          69.3        95.9       149.2        241.7       362.6        711.5       816.6       I,2CC.8      1,960.4    2,697.
sconortloonct                                      -29.8        -32.3       -38.7        -43.4       -87.8      -104.2       -164.1        -222.1       -620.11    -,092.7
Net dltzboseoet to                                     39.Z        63.5        110.5       198.3       274.8        6007.3      652.5         73.7       : .340.3      2 604.9
Otbho  I I l.T Io
Dl botunosoics                                        178.9       326.2       299.6        279.7       311.8        504.4       672.1       2,Q28.8      1,239339        466.2
d unsiiaactoo                                     -223.1       -197.2      -235.1       -245.9      -264.2      -473.3       -202.8        -266.5       -65. ,     _1, 167.
Set dib--- rr-                                        -44.2       129.3         64.5        33.8         47.6        31.1       469.3         762.3         542.4       -705.6
Toe of IMP cesoanrcs                                      0.0         0.0          0.0        77.1          1.8       137.7        103.2        -30.          -33.3           0.0
Shcre-nant capital trtnaat. tints                        42.0        55.5        127.5       136.2       256.2         75.3         20.0        1-8.c         180.1        252.6
Capial  NnaaacltEs NEI                                   57.9        96.3         77.2       -11.4        136.2       -96.7          3.3                        .0.           3.0
Chango In  -es--ces   -increae)                        -113.0      -392.7        140.1       -73.0        275.0       444.5        100.0       -133O.        -414.9       -634.5
Set inne Ion no bcoane reserves /b
(end   oclodl                                      1,306.0      1,599.0     1,406.0      1,444.0     1,135.8        680.0       945.0       2,023.0      2,634.5       5,130.9
Grant and  no  OtCo=ttt= t
Oficcal4 q nacc.s                                         0.0          9.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Total pcbllc M 4 !.T loons                               97.1       436.3        223.4       372.3        633.C     1,031.0
dRnm                                                  15.6       142.0        90.0        139.0       137.8        211.0
236                                                   25.6          7.0          0.0         0.0          O.0        27.0
Oshen moltllatenol                                      6.4        77.7         62.2        97.1         47.0       119.0
Gonercaents                                            24.0       200.5         47.7        22.2        106.4       264.0
Of oh.ch cenr-ally planted economicd   /c               0.0           .0         0.0           .          0.0C        0.0
Supplilero                                              3.0         7.0          0.3         0.           0.C        85.0
Ottucoltl totiltuiloos                                 16.7         9.7         19.0       103.0       341.9        325.0
Othec M t. LT loans (shone a-oiloble)                   178.9       415.9        392.5       369.2        348.9       531.8
crtne ee-o  i total coiattncoto  313  04.630       31.430       16.703      112523       10.200      1.6869
.loercage inc ernst (2I)3.344                                         057        2.276       0.081        0.080       0.072
A--rage oo-Icly  y.eon 91 29.10C                                   73.830       23.500      I6.539       14.330      12.832
Mediss-  -cd LocnaTe-t Debt  IDisb-coed ..00I
O-cal debt o          _ots5000g (DGD -,.d cf pritod)    903.0     1,160.7      1,345.6     1,606.8    .,931.9       7,210.4
lIocu'icg unoisboesed                                 1,182.4     1,77D.O      7,009.5     7,404.G     3,145.9      4,054.7
Poblic debt ccccicn                                     -54.9       -63.4        -73.2       -87.7       -152.3      -204.4
Iotecosi                                                -25.1       -20.1        -34.5       -44.3        -64.0      -299.2
Itbec M b LT debt terat'Kv                             -755.9      -766.9       -314.5      -245.9       -339.3      -547.8
Total d.bc seroice                                     -310.7      -327.2       -387.7      -333.6       -490.6      -752.2
Dtbc 9,-rdert_L'
DebI  "eenice ratio                                      14.9         10.8        13.9          9.6        12.2         15.7
Debt  1ccoice  ratio I                                   26.2         17.0        16.2         11.5        13.9         17.2
Debt ser`accGcc                                           2.9          2.5         2.7          7.0         7.7          5.4
Fublic debt cartcc/Oocercoent roesue                      4.3          2.5         3.5          3.2         4.4          3.5
Interest  -cc total 30cDOD-tal D(OD                       5.7          5.5         5.6          5.4         0.7          5.2
Toial dcts seroicn/total 000                             11.4        11.8         11.9         10.7        17.0        77.0
Oepesdacoc  taoi-f-o   i   6 07 Debt 3 b
Gross dlstccrsomcntsflopoeo7r   (toclodgdi8 NfS)         11.          12.6        12.9         lJ.1        10.9         1-.0
Nect ocati-eri -porto   l-ncludiNg   701                 -2.8          2.8         1.8          4.8        27.          10.2
Set tca-stergross oloxursemects                         -25.3         22.5        13.6         36.0        18.4         4897
iseotoce (it)
2I00 dioboroementoIgru sa total aloban.e.ents            14.8          8.0         9.1          8.3        17.0          9.3
8ank Group din-u-eaonoa/geoso  total dinbansece,ts 14.9                9.3         9.7          9.5        13.6          9.9
198R3 DOD/totul 20D                                      24.2        20.8         20.0         18.6        17.9       27.7
Batnk Group 502/total DcOD                               24.2        20.9         20.4         19.2        18.9        21.3
IB2D debt se-ice-/t oal debt set-ite                      8.0          9.5         9.3         10.9         9.8          7.8
Bone Gro-p debt semite/tntal debt  -ecice                 9.0          9.5         8.3         10.9         9.9          7.8
ictercol Debt (Disbor.e.   0l01)                                tauondlne 12/.3/ 77
lOorruct_ bS ollli ns)                                      Acosnt             _
IBRD                                                           34 5.7       31.9
Bask  Iroup                                                    365.2         04.7
Otert molsclatenal                                             131.5         lJ.I
Gooe, ...ets                                                   379.7         30.1
3D ott6 vhci  e C ally op-aned rcomlo  /0                      D.0         0.0
SupplLers                                                       13.2          1.3
FPna  c5a 6cstiltslots                                         196.6         4.9
Bocdo                                                            0.0          ol.o
Pob-lc dot net                                                    0.0         '.0
Total pobI ct 0 4 'T .ibs                                    2,052.1        '0('.0
Oc,ct M 4 .  debs                                               979.8       891.6
Ttoal pot.lc  debt  Itnoloding cncclsbccsnd,                 2.266.1        215.4
Cnta' M 4 .  debt vlnclodlcg uoodiobur oedt                  5,145.9        796.0
/0 Ore. tinctat.
it.  Set fooreln auaet9      554 aqclcalacl ot '.Ine 3v
Ic Includns 00EA contrcs, Fetoplss Oepubllt of Iclita, Nortt korea, Not-tn Vidt SNt.
ic  Itobuding Sec Alrct tnnectnen t Intone.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of June 30, 1979)
Loan or                                                                       Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                                        Less Cancellations
Number  Year    Borrower                                Purpose            Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans and one credit fully disbursed                          388.9    5.5          -
822     1972    Kingdom of Thailand                     Education          15.4       -       5.1
864     1972    Telephone Organization of Thailand  Telecom                37.0       -       2.2
870     1972    Kingdom of Thailand                     Highways           28.6       -       0.8
369     1973    Kingdom of Thailand                     Education             -   19.5        4.2
461     1974    Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation            -    7.0        1.1
977     1974    Electricity Generating Authority    Power                  75.0       -      14.9
of Thailand
992     1974    Industrial Finance Corporation of   Industry               11.7       -       0.2
Thailand
1021    1974    Metropolitan Water Works Authority  Water                  55.0       -      8.8
1149    1975    Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation         95.0       -     72.2
1198    1976    Kingdom of Thailand                     Rural Dev.         21.0(TW)  -      10.7
1199    1976    Kingdom of Thailand                     Livestock           5.0(TW)  -       3.2
1243    1976    Kingdom of Thailand                     Rubber             50.0       -     40.4
1253    1976    Telephone Organization of Thailand  Telecom                26.0       -      7.1
1271    1976    Kingdom of Thailand                     Education          31.0       -     23.2
1327    1976    Industrial Finance Corporation of   Industry               25.0       -     16.9
Thailand
1393    1977    Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture        28.0       -     23.3
1468    1977    Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation         55.0       -     45.2
1485    1977    Electricity Generating Authority    Power                  50.0       -     37.8
of Thailand
1492    1977    Industrial Estates Authority of         Industry            4.8       -      4.2
Thailand
767     1978    Kingdom of Thailand                     Population           -    33.1/a   33.0
1519    1978    Kingdom of Thailand                     Transportation  110.0         -     93.8
1527    1978    Provincial Electricity Authority    Rural Elect.           25.0       -     25.0
1556    1978    Kingdom of Thailand                     Housing             8.6       -      8.1
S-10    1978    Natural Gas Organization of             Natural Gas         4.9       -       1.6
Thailand
1620    1978    Telephone Organization of Thailand  Telecom                90.0       -     90.0
1630    1978    Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation         17.5       -     17.4
1638    1979    Kingdom of Thailand                     Urban              16.0       -      16.0
/a Of which $3.1 is Norway grant participation.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
1662    1979    State Railway of Thailand               Railways /b        16.7       -      16.7
1690    1979    Electricity Generating Authority    Power /b               80.0       -      80.0
of Thailand
-r.913  1979    Kingdom of Thailand                      Education /b         -   35.0       35.00
929  1979    Kingdom of Thailand                     Rural Dev.lb          -   25.0       25.00
Total                                                        1,371.1  125.1/c  757.32
of which has been repaid                                     198.3
Total now outstanding                                        1,172.8  125.1
Amount sold /c                      68.6
of which has been repaid          39.5                        29.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                               1,143.7  125.1
Total undisbursed                                              664.8   38.3
,a  Of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
/b  Approved but not yet effective.
_c  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
d Approved but not signed. According to Operations Manual instructions only
signed loans and credits are to be included in Annex II. In this case,
Loan 1690 should not be included.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of June 30, 1979)
Amounts ($ million)
Year         Company             Type of Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construc-
Aggregate Co. Ltd.       tion Materials              0.30       -     0.30
1964/  Industrial                Development                      -   0.38      0.38
1970   Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group         Cement and
1975                               Construction
Materials                    28.33   3.75    32.08
1977   Mutual Fund               Money and Capital
Company Limited          Market                         -   0.30      0.30
1977   United Sugar              Food and Food
Terminal Limited         Processing                  2.50   0.20      2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries           2.00       -     2.00
1978   Siam Cement Group         Cement and Construc-
tion Materials                -   0.09      0.09
1979   Bangkok Glass Industry
Company, Limited       Glass Containers              4.85   0.25      5.10
1979   Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited         tion Materials             36.00   4.00    40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                   -   0.15      0.15
Total gross commitments                               73.98   9.12    83.10
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                48.65   2.56    51.21
Net held by the Corporation                           25.33   6.56    31.89
Total undisbursed                                     42.85   0.25    43.10



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of June 30, 1979)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4 Million
Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22, 1972;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date:
July 31, 1980
Although the technical assistance and educational aspects of
the project are largely on schedule, civil works are about three years behind
schedule with consequent delays in furniture and equipment procurement. The
delays in civil works result from delays in contracting architectural consul-
tants, completing tender documents, and awarding contracts. The specialist
services program under the project is nearly completed. Out of 26 experts, 21
have completed their assignment, two are in post and three are being recruited.
Recommendations of experts for improvement of teaching, research and extension
activities are considered worthwhile and have been implemented by the university
staff. All the fellowships have been awarded; 94 recipients have completed
their training. Total project cost will exceed appraisal estimates by about
35%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing Date:
June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date: September 30, 1980
All project components are virtually completed except the Teacher
Training Colleges (TTC) component which is about 36 months behind schedule;
completion rates for civil works, furniture, equipment and technical assistance
are 85%, 55%, 46% and 100% respectively. Good progress is generally being
made in the pedagogical development of project components except at Songkla
University where the attraction of teaching at Bangkok universities is
resulting in high staff turnover.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Loan No. 1271    Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation follows approximately the
appraisal estimate. Ninety-four percent of first phase civil works have been
completed. Civil works for the two remaining phases have been completed.
Civil works for the two remaining phases have been contracted (secondary
school component) or are being tendered (adult education component). Procure-
ment of furniture and equipment follows the progress of civil works. One
hundred thirty-seven out of 146 fellowships have been awarded, of which 119
have been completed. Staff training programs are on schedule but need to be
improved, as does supervision by the Ministry of Education of its nonformal
education programs.
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is generally maintaining the revised time schedule
established in 1975, following initial delays. The Bank loan is fully committed
and $34.8 million (94%) had been disbursed as of June 30, 1979. Nearly all
of the local telephone network expansion has been completed.  After a year's
delay in procurement under a bilateral loan, the installation of the long
distance transmission equipment is now progressing satisfactorily. The
project is expected to be completed by the end of November 1979, about three
years behind schedule.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement action on
all Bank-financed items is complete. The Bank loan is fully committed and
$18.9 million (73%) had been disbursed as of June 30, 1979. Local telephone
network expansion is nearing completion. After a year's delay in procurement
under a bilateral loan, the installation of long distance transmission
equipment is progressing satisfactorily. The project is now expected to be
completed by the end of November 1980, 11 months behind schedule.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to delay in decision on the type of switching equipment to be
installed in Thailand from now on, action on procurement has been delayed by
about nine months. Bid documents for all project items are now expected to
be issued by end of 1979. Waiting lists have been introduced in all telephone
areas and procedures for giving new connections revised. Progress on imple-
mentation of other loan covenants is satisfactory.
Loan No. 870 Fifth Highway Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is almost complete and 97% of the loan was
disbursed as of June 30, 1979.
Loan No. 1519    Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project:  $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance equipment is
under way, and most contracts have been awarded. Construction of project
roads is well under way, with most contracts are on schedule.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project; $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project will be completed two years behind schedule as a result
of initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving equip-
ment. During the 1977/78 working season there was a marked improvement in the
pace of construction, especially on the tertiary canals. Work on rehabilitation
of main canal systems has been satisfactory and will be completed in 1979.
The estimated project cost is $30.3 million, compared with $12.5 million
at appraisal. In part, the increased cost is due to price inflation being
higher than foreseen at appraisal. Also, a large part of the increase is due
to a decision to provide new tertiary canals over an area of 34,700 ha rather
than the 21,500 ha assumed at appraisal, and the adoption of higher standards
for tertiary development than envisioned at appraisal. The higher costs are



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
compensated for by increases in projected commodity prices and the economic
rate of return is now estimated at 24% compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress
on the rainfed rice component continues to be satisfactory. The breeding program
continues to be the strongest element while the agronomic program remains weak.
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Consultant contract was signed in March 1979, and six engineers are
now on duty. Design by contract is delayed but "force account" work is expected
to begin in January 1980.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Major civil works are about one third behind schedule set at
appraisal, but it is still expected that the project will be completed by
mid-1984. Construction work on the diversion dam and the first of three
canal contracts is progressing satisfactorily. Work on a second canal
contract started in April 1979. RID expects to award the third canal contract
in time to commence construction during the next dry season. About 5,000 ha
of on-farm development will be completed this year. Thus, by the end of the
1979 construction season the total area provided with on-farm development
will amount to 10,500 ha, or 11% of the project area. All studies financed
under the proejct are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468    Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project;
$55 Million Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date:
December 23, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works on about 5,300 ha were completed in the 1978
construction season. Project preparation for about 40,000 ha in the Stage II
area of Maeklong was recently completed. A project monitoring system is
being set up and the Chao Phya Project area is now served by the National
Agricultural Extension Project.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants good progress
is being made on the engineering of the village roads.  The first contract for
construction of 114 km has been completed and work has begun on two contracts
for a total of some 250 km. Procurement problems have delayed the water
supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has now been delivered,
drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained. Progress on
rural electrification is excellent and this component will be completed in
June 1979. Progress on agricultural extension and land settlements is satis-
factory. After a slow start-up, the Upland Crop Improvement Component is
progressing satisfactorily. The program management, with the assistance of a
recently appointed program advisor, has undertaken a critical review of past
work and is gradually introducing an innovative program of research investiga-
tions of great problem-solving relevance to upland crop farmers in the Northeast.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of February 27,
1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
The seed production and pasture development programs are progressing
reasonably well and the loaned-bull and artificial insemination programs,
hitherto hindered by the delay in importation of cattle, are expected to
improve with the delivery of 400 imported Brahman cattle. Furthermore, the
number of permanent project staff has been increased from the initially
approved 121 to 223, and the New Zealand Government has agreed in principle to
provide additional technical assistance for the remaining project period.
Disbursements are still considerably behind schedule but are expected to
increase with improvement in the preparation of procurement documents and the
importation of cattle. The Department of Livestock Development has agreed to
conduct a livestock sector review to prepare an integrated development plan.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement
difficulties and initial delay in loan signing. Implementation is
satisfactory now. Replanting attained in 1978 was close to the revised
target of 35,000 ha.



ANNEX II
- 35 -                           Page 9 of 12
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation in the field is progressing well with almost
all staff appointments completed in fifteen provinces. There continues to be
encouraging evidence of adoption of new technology by farmers as a result of
improved extension services. Procurement is on schedule, but the civil works
program is now more than one year late because bids for the revised civil
works program were excessively high or unresponsive. Retendering is in
progress, using simplified tender procedures agreed to for one Regional
Training Center and eight provincial construction packages. Tendering has
commenced for the 1979 construction program. Disbursements are also behind
schedule because of the delays in the civil works program, but both the civil
works program and disbursements are expected to progress as scheduled during
1979. Extension and civil works consultants continue to provide DAE with
excellent assistance.
Loan No. 977   Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Civil works under the project have been about 85% completed.
Construction of the dam embankment was completed on May 14, 1978 and all other
works are being carried out satisfactorily. The installation of the turbine
generating units is expected to be completed on schedule. Although the
reservoir did not reach the level anticipated during the first wet season,
1978 has been a good hydro year and the water situation in the reservoir has
improved. Project costs are likely to be about 20% over estimates, due mainly
to additional grouting work required beneath the main embankment. Project
costs will probably increase further as a result of the recent devaluation of
the US dollar against the Japanese yen. The progress on resettlement has been
satisfactory, and almost all of the 814 families affected have now been
moved into their new homes.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of September 23,
1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is proceeding satisfactorily.
Implementation is about one month behind schedule. The initial delay was caused
by slow mobilization of the contractor and poorer than expected rock conditions
at the downstream ends of the diversion tunnels. Orders for all major equipment
(financed by the Kuwait Fund) have been placed. Construction of the resettle-
ment project is progressing according to schedule. Disbursements are generally
in line with appraisal estimates.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million Loan
of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project is in the early stages of implementation. There was an
initial delay of about four months in the preparation of bid documents but
procurement is now under way and should present no further problems. Field
construction crews have been organized and have been working on pole setting
and conductor stringing since the middle of 1978, utilizing materials available
in stock.
Loan S-10       Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million Loan
of July 28, 1978; Effective Date: September 25, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The engineering work is proceeding on schedule. The follow-up
project loan is at the appraisal stage.
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Original Closing Date:
June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical work on the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
quality of construction and the performance of consultants on supervision of
construction of the IBRD portion of the project is good. The quality of
work on the ADB portion of the project - the transmission and distribution of
pipes - has been improved. Because of the initial delays in contract awards,
the project is expected to be completed in late 1979, about 20 months behind
the original schedule. Due to inadequate tariffs, which were last revised in
May 1972, MWWA's financial performance continues to be poor. MWWA's proposals
for raising the water tariffs in line with increased operating costs are to
be considered by the Cabinet shortly.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Progress is generally good with only minor delays in implementation.
Current cost estimates for civil works are below appraisal estimates. Initial
interagency problems in improving water supply and in transfer of project land
at King Petch are being resolved. In order to minimize resistance to benefi-
ciary charges, cost recovery in improved slums will be introduced as physical
works are completed - starting in early 1980.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Implementation of the project is generally ahead of schedule.
Signal equipment will be installed this spring, some two years earlier than
had been expected, as a result of the consulting and procurement work done
under contracts for which the Bank provided retroactive financing.
Loan No. 1492   The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project;
$4.75 Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date:
March 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation continues to be good. On-site infrastructure
has progressed further. Bunding, drainage, and three of four deep wells have
been completed. Substantial progress is being acehived in road construction,
sewerage, and water distribution and work is expected to be completed by end
of 1979. Land sales have been very encouraging with 90% of available plots
either firmly committed or with commitment under negotiations, and are well
ahead of appraisal estimates. These sales have been achieved at an average
sales price of B 300,000 per rai, as compared to projected sales price of
B 250,000 per rai, in the appraisal. In order to accommodate substantial
demand for the Export Processing Zone, IEAT has enlarged this area to 30 ha.
The estate's full development is still scheduled for mid-1980.
Loan No. 992   Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974; Original Closing Date: September 30,
1978; Current Closing Date: September 30, 1979
The full amount of the $12 million Loan has been committed, of which
98% has been disbursed. The commitment was more rapid than originally estimated.
Disbursements have also been very satisfactory. Since June 1974 when the loan
was made, IFCT's financial condition has continued to be good.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 MIillion Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The loan commitment rate has been slower than expected because of
the sharply depressed investment climate in 1976. The IFCT's capital structure
and liquidity position have improved, however, with successful share capital
increases. Satisfactory progress has been made on the institution-building
aspects of project.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 1978;
Effective Date: July 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
RTG has, in accordance with the Credit Agreement: (a) established
and staffed the Project Coordinating Committee, which has met frequently;
(b) established and staffed the Project Administration and Financing Unit
(PAFU); (c) appointed a project director, deputy director and two assistant
project directors and a health planner/economist; and (d) initiated most of
the key project activities at the national level and in the 20 Accelerated



ANNEX II
- 38 -                            Page 12 of 12
Family Planning and Health Provinces. Due to initial delays in staffing the
project administration and financing unit, a high turnover of staff in the
Construction and Design Division, and delays in securing Budget Bureau approval
for the supplementary budget for FY1978, key project activities were held up
initially and major elements of the project are about six months behind
schedule. The Ministry of Public Health is, however, taking appropriate
action to strengthen project management, improve coordination and remove
impediments to implementation.



- 39 -                             ANNEX III
THAILAND
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the project:  nine months
(b) Agency which prepared the project: Department of Agricultural
Extension in the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
(c) First presentation to the Bank: December 1977
First mission to consider the project: April 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission: August 21, 1978
Date of departure of postappraisal mission: January 18, 1979
(e) Completion of negotiations: June 29, 1979
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: November 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Borrower has agreed that:
(a) the position of Deputy Director General for Extension Operations
and Training would be established and filled by December 31, 1979
(para. 39);
(b) the Training Section in DAE will be officially established as a
Training Division by Marh 31, 1980 (para. 39);
(c) DAE will, not later than March 31, 1980 establish procedures
satisfactory to the Bank to ensure the coordination and uniform
implementation of a training and visit system of agriculture
extension on a nationwide basis (para. 39);
(d) Provincial Agricultural Coordinating Committees and technical
advisory panels will be established in project provinces (para. 42);
(e) new staff will be made available as required for timely
implementation of extension services in the proposed project
provinces (para. 44);
(f) project monitoring and evaluation will carried out through proce-
dures agreed with the Bank (para. 46); and
(g) sufficient funds will be provided after project completion to ensure
the extension program continues to be adequately staffed and operated
(para. 54.).



I



= O0=  /                                                             I 04=
=                                                  THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I[ PROJECT
-20-                    C==rAng Rt .                                                                                    PROVINCES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT             20-
~~~~~cI.*B'SO   / ~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCES INCLJEJOEDUNDER LOAN13O93TH
to,               p                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CRAO-PEEEA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECTICR 379THI
eiiosal                                    ¶   - 0 '=                                         N 2 0 - ' Eg        R UORTHEAST I RRIATION I PROJECT CR. 461 TH)
0 =  =   4 S.oh    Sjj~       v           l            T[lt )  1    f    ^   ;+:   *.-  - -O: . .f S = = I  PFRITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECT(Loan I149THI
m1~ ~ ~~~~y 1>/t                                                 7,$//   ORTKEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECCILon 17GH C-SRI
X  0-; 0 0 X  (    tuPPERf   {=  =4i  /                 ,, 0NORTHEAST IRRIGATION I PROJECTIL.. SRORCTHi                         T
Chiang Mai        I4                                 =                                   NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL GEVELOPMENT PROJECT
{) >°rr&Wsn                                                                   - .;  >-, C - a X ; 0 -PROVINCIAL BOUNOARIES
PM-oR- ===.~                                                                        REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
a1 t  X  flmpo                                                                                     INTERNTIRNAL BOUNDARIES
'N        \UCMEOOIIE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j                                                          LAOS PEOPLE'S
¾V    ==*t H                                'tA~7OV                          NORTH 0                           KAMPUCDEMAREP.
-Pa°  t==   0   kKbirXhon  l   Nokhon Pothom  $of )_Os12°
>          ,      s.Af..8    PhatNhonGhSGyHh
'         - k g         09AnhongOO   I  9   mr/hO
\t  0  XCharn      nLop Bvr,it\ Nakho^        m_
ProCha B.
f(I 8051-,    ,fGlf              of.      ChoChoHRSa1            *tJ
Phant |                                    TThUR BUn         BRri
-so       Ph u,%, ?   t                          ~~                        ~                        s° _             W     \|: ;t T H A Ihen  L AoN _
I                                                       tC§C~ : .9h,Phr>"%iiNg  r.DEMOCRATIC KAMPUCHEA
Prod, op        -N/ho0.oth
IC  '3  KhN ,<Us h       TR                                               o    ndmrn j2. NURSSiICb,, IrS
3. POthuIS T1,onI            0
<ho                        ~~~~~~4. Som,t Songkhrom
'3  0            5. Somut, Se khon
-               ~~~~~~~6 Tho. BuriC                                                   TRot ot  o  eop`p,o   O
r3             7  Somut Prokon                                                                  , r /Ch     Seo
O'       (00             200                                        Phro Nalthon S= AyClthoyo -                                      IRor500U to SPAuR It GooPk
K;lomefers (10 -' S  D                   0 ) >c r' 3  /  \  \ 9 Ang Thong  A                                   di,¶ L          dAY InfAw
so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                          Co ot  ,  000MkLAY            IND Onp N5 IE paS l oP 
p    Gulf   of   Thai/and Kl
0.,   PPE                                                                               -INDIA SO TH               CHINA
Phon6nao ~ ~ ~ hoi  '>
N <,g?      homnro 
H'               ~~~~~~~PhuklRt ¾                                                                           8'Er  HA
I Trana(    o                                                      ½t~~~~~~~~THAILAND 0of'
1\ Iont                                                                                          MOCoonT[ 5E)P
1jSO~~~~~  oP'  ~~~~                   /                              China~~~~.  tho
0      ~        IS1     00    2          00    300.                              (NESGVI~AL                                                               Y I
Hilsomete,                                                                                                                       A \Y0>    I A
>0                          100                       CO200                                                                                       .                    t~ 
I    C50            MA LA Y SIA                                                              ON   E  S  F 1A 



