CONFORMED
LOAN NUMBER 1752 TH
Loan Agreement
(Second National Agricultural Extension Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 18, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1752 TH
12AN AGREMENT
,             td1             , 1979, between THE KINGDOM OF
A\  jr ,ee Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
Swkr ex Aml iÄ                .1EVT (hereinafter called the Bank).
k*i X{A'  t b   r  wcr ha s requested the Bank to assist
1': Z~e e  a      a   w h r e lkt ds ribed in Schedule 2 to this
gte ent      mntu'g zhe  ,* ty hereinatter provided;
S    ua hs agred, on the basis inter alia of
the. ieg qitg,       a              to the Burrower upon the terms
A      ethe            rts herctu nereby agree as follows:
ART,XLE 1
General C nditiong; Detinitions
,     1    ar :zt  t s  th s AgreeMenlt accept all the
it'v   1 It ,,i nU 1411nd It1 r     s Applicable to Loan and
raee Agreet            hi th.Ank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
tame trce andl ettv, -ls it thev were tully set forth herein (said
I       ns A ia       o L,an and Guarantee Agreements of
B          nkt   ere inater 8,inked the General Conditions).
:K,c tn ;.u    Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
ntext  xtherv r quires, the several terms defined in the
#V Z1Vera J n       1 1,ve the respeetive meanings therein set forth
an'd the      (wng add1t« na 1erins have the following meanings:
t he AX 141 h  tepartment ut Agricultural Extension
winln thle äorrwe'r '   Miitry ot Agriculture and Cooperatives;
:Sk" means, the uivil Service Commission within the
ortver  k'ettice t che PCrUte Minister; and
(t)  Ytr leet Provint es" mean the provinces of the Borrower
enumerate ik 1n SUhedu4e this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
 :. L  rhe Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
n the tertns and    Lenditions in the Loan Agreement set forth


﻿-2-
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty million dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the princi-
pal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through DAE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, agricultural, engineering,


﻿-3-
financial, training and extension practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, staff, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist DAE in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall cause DAE to employ agricultural
extension and engineering consultants and experts whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, as follows:
(a) a firm of agricultural consultants to provide the
services of a team leader and of six regional extension experts;
and
(b) a firm of engineering consultants to provide assistance
in the implementation of the civil works under Part C of the
Project, including assistance in carrying out site surveys, adapt-
ing existing designs, preparing bidding documents and evaluating
bids, and supervising the construction of buildings.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause DAE to furnish to
the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall cause DAE to maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to d.sclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall cause DAE to enable the Bank's accredited representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in


﻿4
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall cause DAE to furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall cause DAE to prepare and furnish
to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower, DAE and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall cause DAE to maintain a project
evaluation and monitoring program (including appropriate method-
ologies for surveys and data analysis) in accordance witt pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to
the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of Section 3.05 (a) above, the Borrower shall take all necessary
measures to ensure that all land and rights in respect of land
required for the timely implementation of Part C of the Project
are made available to DAE not later than six months before con-
struction is scheduled to commence.
Section 3.06. In carrying out Parts A.1 and B.1 of the
Project, the Borrower shall take all such measures as may be
required to ensure that:
(a) a position of Deputy Director General for Extension
Operations and Training is established and maintained within DAE,
and that DAE appoint such Deputy Director General not later than
December 31, 1979;


﻿-5-
(b) the training section currently in existence within DAE
be officially established and maintained as a Training Division
not later than March 31, 1980; and
(c) the Training Division referred to in Section 3.06
(b) above be headed by a division director responsible to the
Deputy Director General referred to in Section 3.06 (a) above.
Section 3.07. In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause DAE to establish, not later than March 31,
1980, procedures satisfactory to the Bank to ensure overall
coordination and uniform implementation of a training and visit
system of agricultural extension on a nationwide basis.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall at all times take all
such measures as may be required to ensure that: (i) the staff
positions required under Part B of the Project are duly estab-
lished on a permanent basis by CSC in a timely manner consistent
with the implementation table set forth in the Annex to Schedule .
to this Agreement; and (ii) adequate and timely budget provisio-..
are made by the Budget Bureau for the employment of such staff.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfac-
tory to the Bank for the effective coordination of DAE extension
activities with related activities of other agencies of the
Borrower and, in this connection, shall establish and maintain in
each of the Project Provinces as and when each such Province is
phased into the Project:
(a) a Provincial Agricultural Extension Coordinating Commit-
tee to coordinate the activities of the provincial agricultural
extension service with those of other agriculture-related agen-
cies; and
(b) a Provincial Technical Advisory Panel to formulate
and recommend a package of extension activities for the following
crop season and to recommend areas of research to agricultural
research institutions.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall make motorcycles financed
under the Project available to DAE Extension Agents and other
eligible staff under procedures satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allo-
cation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operatii.g for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with


﻿-7-
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of
Section 4.02 (a) above, the Borrower shall cause DAE to maintain a
consolidated Project account covering all Project expenditures
incurred at headquarters, regional and provincial levels.
(c) With regard to the Project account referred to in
Section 4.02 (b) above, the Borrower shall cause DAE to: (i)
have said account and related financial statements for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of said account and related financial state-
ments for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of DAE and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause DAE to operate and
maintain all equipment and facilities provided under the Project
and ensure the replacement thereof as may be required in accor-
dance with standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide
promptly as needed the funds required for that purpose.
Section 4.04. Except as the Borrower and the Bank may other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall, after the completion of the
Project, continue to make available adequate funds so as to
enable DAE to pursue:
(a) the operation, with due diligence and efficiency,
of extension services and other activities introduced or estab-
lished under the Project;
(b) the proper operation and maintenance of all Project
equipment, vehicles, buildings and facilities; and
(c) the employment of the staff engaged under the Project
to carry out the above mentioned activities and operation and
maintenance.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date December 18, 1979, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Con-
ditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok
Thailand
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINANCE                            TH-2823
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By /s/ Klos Visessurakaran
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                22,500,000         74%
(2) Equipment, furni-          12,000,000
ture, vehicles
and materials
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) procured                                 65%
locally*
(c) manufactured                             100% (ex-
locally                                 factory)
(3) Consultants, training,      3,200,000         100%
fellowships and
study tours
(4) Unallocated                 2,300,000
TOTAL      40,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
*    When either import bill or manufacturer's invoice is unavailable.


﻿- 11 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disburced on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan whichi are then allocated to
another Category and which in the cpinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to -he Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which wpuld otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the .oan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, as the second phase of a national program,
is designed to further improve the organization, management and
quality of agricultural extension services and expand such
services to the Project Provinces; it consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:  Organizational Program
Implementation of a program providing for:
1.   the strengthening of the organization of DAE's head-
quarters; and
2.   the establishment of an improved organizational and
geographical structure, including the establishment of 9
Project Regions, to ensure efficient agricultural extension
services through clearly defined channels of command from
DAE's headquarters, through the Regional and Provincial
levels, to the District level.
Part B:   Staffing Program
Implementation of a staffing program including the following
appointments:
1.   At DAE headquarters: appointment of a Deputy Director
General for Extension Operations and Training, and of 9
Inspectors; and
2.   At Regional and Provincial levels: appointment of about
1,800 trained agricultural extension staff, including about
1,200 DAE extension agents, about 240 Home Economic Agents,
about 120 Subject Matter Specialists, and about 80 Provincial
Training Officers and Assistant Training Officers.
Part C:  Constructiorn and Housing
1.   Construction of 2 Regional Training Centers, about 40
combined Provincial and District Extension Centers, and
about 270 District Extension Centers; and


﻿- 13 -
2.   Construction of about 930 housing units.
Part D:   Vehicles and Equipment
1.   Acquisition of motorcycles and vehicles for transporting
staff, materials and equipment; and
2.   Acquisition of furniture, equipment, machinery, tools
and demonstration plot materials.
Part E:   Extension Methodology
Implementation of an extension methodology based on a system
of regular farm visits and continuous advisory services to farmers
on farm management and crop production practices, and to house-
wives on home economics practices.
Part F:   Consultants, Training and Project Monitoring
1.   Employment of agricultural extension and engineering
consultants and specialists.
2.   Implementation of a training program, including a
program for: (i) the local training of all extension workers,
and (ii) fellowship awards to selected candidates for
overseas studies and training tours to neighboring countries;
and
3.   Maintenance of a Project monitoring and evaluation
program.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿-14
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Schedule for Incremental Staft
under Part B of the Project
FY     FY     FY     FY     FY
Position                  1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   Total
Deputy Director              1      -      -      -      -       1
General
Inspectors                   9      -      -      -      -       9
Headquarters Division        1      -      -      -      -       1
Director
Headquarters Subdi-          1      -      -      -      -       1
vision Head
Headquarters Subject         3      -      -      -      -       3
Matter Specialist
Regional Extension           1      2      -      -      -       3
Officer
Deputy Regional              2      4      -      -      -       6
Extension Officer
Regional Training            1      2      -      -      -       3
Officer
Regional Subject             4      9      4      5      2      24
Matter Specialist
Regional Extension           4      8      -      -      -      12
and Training
Technician
Regional Administrator       1      2      -      -      -       3
Regional Adminis-            3      6      -      -      -       9
trative Staff
Provincial Extension         -      1                    -       1
Officer


﻿FY      FY      FY     FY      FY
r  8ý$  1981   1982    1983    1984    Total
rÅ                                       2       4       1       17
10      10      10       7      39
S21                                    235             23      11     119
2     l       10     10       7       39
4      23      21      24     117
øtt er
He  taw.,  X>Aen ~1,            49      77      45      53      238
1 2                             $28     446     131      62   1,174
VTAL               285     510     607     249    167    1,819


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning January 1, 1985
through   January 1, 1999                  1,335,000
On July 1, 1999                                 1,285,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment*
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years                              1.20%
before maturity
More than three years but not                          2.35%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                            4.35%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                         6.30%
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                        7.10%
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                               7.90%
before maturity
*    The life of the Loan is calculated from the estimated date
of Board approval to the date of the last maturity, rounded
to the nearest year.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Parts A.5 and A.6 hereunder, goods
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   (i) For bidding purposes, contracts for standard items to be
procured in volume, including contracts for vehicles, equipment,
furniture, and materials under Part D of the Project shall be
grouped, to the extent practicable, to form appropriate bid
packages each estimated to cost the equivalent of about $250,000;
and (ii) without limitation or restriction upon any provisions
contained in paragraphs A.1, A.2 and A.3 (i) above, contracts for
the purchase of motorcycles under Part D.1 of the Project shall be
awarded to the three lowest evaluated bids as such bids shall be
determined pursuant to paragraph A.4 and to Section B of this
Schedule.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,


﻿- 19 -
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and
4 above:
(i) specialized miscellaneous items to be purchased in
small quantities, including:
(a) materials and equipment for field experiments
and home economics and small items of audio-
visual aids and office equipment required
under Part D.2 of the Project which do not
exceed, in the aggregate, the equivalent of
$800,000; and
(b) furniture required under Part D.2 of the
Project which does not exceed, in the aggre-
gate, the equivalent of $400,000,
may be procured on the basis of local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank; and
(ii) contracts for vehicles, equipment, furniture and
material with unit prices not exceeding the equi-
valent of $15,000 each, may be purchased on the
basis of prudent shopping after solicitation of at
least three price quotations from reputable sup-
pliers, provided that the aggregate expenditure of
items so purchased shall not exceed the equivalent
of $500,000.
6.   Contracts for civil works under Part C of the Project
shall:
(i) be grouped, to the extent practicable, to form
appropriate bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of about $100,000 or more each, and
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; or
(ii) to the extent that it would be impractical to
apply the provisions contained in (i) above, such
civil works may be procured locally, in accordance
with local procedures acceptable to the Bank, after


﻿- 20 -
obtaining, where possible, three quotations from
reputable construction firms.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Kingdom of Thailand may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Kingdom of Thailand if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Kingdom of Thailand
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Kingdom of Thailand.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 21 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for (i) civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $3C0,000 or more, and (ii) for vehicles,
furniture, equipmnaent and materials estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially d3ffer from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 22 -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Project Provinces
I.   Upper Northern Region
1. Chiang Rai
2. Payao
3. Mae Hong Son
4. Nan
5. Lamphun
6. Phrae
II.   Lower Northern Region
7. Kamphaeng Phet
8. Tak
9. Phetchabun
10. Uttaradit
III.   Upper Northeastern Region
11. Loei
12. Nakhon Phanom
13. Udon Thani
14. Nong Khai
15. Sakon Nakhon
IV.   Lower Northeastern Region
16. Surin
17. Maha Sarakham
V.   Central Region
18. Nonthaburi
19. Bangkok
20. Pathum Thani
21. Ayutthaya
VI.   Western Region
22. Phet Buri
23. Kanchanaburi
24. Samut Sakhon
25. Samut Songkhram


﻿- 24 -
VII.   Eastern Region
26. Chanthaburi
27. Trat
28. Nakhon Nayok
29. Rayong
30. Samut Prakan
VIII.   Upper Southern Region
31. Phangnga
32. Ranong
33. Krabi
34. Chumphon
35. Phuket
IX.   Lower Southern Region
36. Satun
37. Trang
38. Yala
39. Narathiwat


