Document of
The World Bank
Report No: ICR2339
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
ON THE
EMERGENCY SOCIAL SAFETY NET ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 17.5 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
UNDER THE
GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE PROGRAM
EUROPEAN UNION FOOD CRISIS RAPID RESPONSE FACILITY
December 26, 2012
Human Development Sector Unit
Middle East and North Africa Region


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 15, 2012)
Currency Unit = Yemeni Riyal (YR)
US$1.00 = YR 215
1 E= YR 275
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AF          Additional Financing                 MOF         Ministry of Finance
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy          MOPIC       Ministry of Planning and International
CBY         Central Bank of Yemen                            Cooperation
COCA        Central Organization for Control and  MOSAL      Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor
Audit                                NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
CSO         Civil Society Organization           OPEC        Organization of the Petroleum Exporting
DflD        UK Department for International                  Countries
Development                          PDO         Project Development Objective
DPPR        Third Development Program for Poverty  PMT       Proxy Means Test
Reduction (2006-20 10)               PWP         Public Works Project
EC          European Commission                  ROY         Republic of Yemen
ESSN        Emergency Social Safety Net          SC          Steering Committee
Enhancement Project                  SFD         Social Fund for Development
GFRP        Global Food Crisis Response Program  SOEs        Statement of Expenditures
GOY         Government of Yemen                  SWF         Social Welfare Fund
HBS         Household Budget Survey              TPSD        Transitional Program for Stabilization and
HHs         Households                                       Development
IFR         Interim Financial Report             UNESCO      United Nations Educational, Scientific
ISP         Institutional Support Project                    and Cultural Organization
LIWP        Labor Intensive Work Program         UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
KfW         Kreditanstalt ftir Wiederaufbau      WFP         World Food Program
MIS         Management Information System
Vice President: Inger Andersen
Country Director: Hartwig Schafer
Sector Manager: Yasser El-Gammal
Project Team Leader: Mira Hong
ICR Team Leader: Mira Hong


﻿REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Emergency Social Safety Net Enhancement Project
CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design   ............................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes    ............................  7
3. Assessment of Outcomes           ....................................      .......... 16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                        .........................24
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance        ........................  .....26
6. Lessons Learned                                      ...................................................28
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners         ..........29
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................30
Annex 2. Outputs by Component                                 ................... ................  31
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................... 33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes     .    ...........38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results.......................................40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results      ......................     ......41
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.......        ..............42
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...........    ..... 55
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents                           .....................................56
MAP


﻿
﻿A. Basic Information
Emergency Social Safety
Country:              Yemen, Republic of     Project Name:         Net Enhancement (EC
Food Facility Grant)
Project ID:            P1 17038              L/C/TF Number(s):     TF-95879
ICR Date:              12/26/2012            ICR Type:             Core ICR
MIN. OF PLANNING &
Lending Instrument:   ERL                    Grantee:
INTL COOP.
Original Total
USD 23.28M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 23.10M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:       USD 23.28M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Social Fund for Development and Social Welfare Fund
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
B. Key Dates
Revised / Actual
Process            Date             Process        Original Date
Date(s)
Concept Review:                    Effectiveness:         04/27/2010       04/27/2010
Appraisal:            08/28/2009   Restructuring(s):                        03/01/2012
Approval:             12/16/2009   Mid-term Review:       09/20/2010
Closing:              06/30/2011        06/30/2012
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                    Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                Moderate
Bank Performance:                            Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                         Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                 Ratings               Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:      Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision:  Satisfactory        Implementing          Satisfactory
Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                 Overall Borrower
Satisfactory                                 Satisfactory
Performance:                               'Performance:


﻿C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
Indicators                                    Rating
Performance                                     any)
Potential Problem Project YQuality at Entry
Yes                                      'None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any time                   Quality of Supervision
No                                        None
(Yes/No):                N(QSA):
DO rating before
. Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:
D. Sector and Theme Codes
Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                        100                100
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Global food crisis response                                    100               100
E. Bank Staff
Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:         Inger Andersen                    Shamshad Akhtar
Country Director:       Hartwig Schafer                   A. David Craig
Sector Manager:         Yasser El-Gammal                  Roberta Gatti
Project Team Leader:    Mira Hong                         Afrah Al-Ahmad
ICR Team Leader:        Mira Hong
ICR Primary Author:      Suzana de Campos Abbott
F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project objective is to contribute to the reduction of the negative impact of food price volatility on the
poor and vulnerable in selected areas, and support the protection and building of community assets in
poor communities.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
NA


﻿(a) PDO Indicator(s)
Original Target                  Actual Value
Formally
Values (from                     Achieved at
Indicator        Baseline Value                       Revised
approval                      Completion or
Target Values
documents)                     Target Years
Over 12,000 HHs
17,818 HHs for
for workfare
Number of HHs                                                          workfare program;
receiving cash transfers               program; 41,000                 40,441 HHs for the
HHS for the direct
direct cash transfers
cash transfers
At least 60% of
Euro 9.695m of
workfare
Amount of grant                                                        workfare grant
grant=Euro 5.88m;
transferred to                                                         (74%); Euro 6.978m
. . 98% of cash
beneficiaries                                                          of cash assistance
assistance
(98%)
grant=Euro 7.Om
For workfare:
95% report funds
used for food and pay
Percentage of HHs                                                      off debt;
reporting that cash                                                    59% reported using
assistance has reduced                                                income for food and
the food consumption                                                   paying off debt only;
gap, decreased debt                           80%                      36% on food and debt
and/or protected                                                       and others
productive assets
related to food price                                                  For Cash Transfers:
increase                                                               96% report funds
used for food and to
pay off debt as a first
priority
Number of subprojects
rehabilitating                                 100                             102
community assets
95% reported that the
'Percentage of HHs
project was needed;
confirming that the
subprojects                                                            79% reported that
implemented support                           80%                     they benefitted
the protection and                                                     directly from the
building of community                                                 infrastructure built by
assets                                                                the project


﻿(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
Original Target                   Actual Value
Formally
Values (from                     Achieved at
Indicator        Baseline Value                      Revised Target
approval                      Completion or
Values
documents)                      Target Years
Number of
employment days
created as a result of       0               800,000                          964,211
subproject
implementation
Number of paid days
. . .Average 66
per participating            0               days/HAverage 50 days/HH
household
Percentage of female                           -20%
.0                                  10-0                             14.4%
participation
Number of
subprojects fully                              100                              102
financed
Number of new HHs
enrolled to receive   0 (new caseload)        41,000                          40,441
cash assistance
Percentage of HHs
receiving cash
assistance in                                                            100% in flood and
0                 80%
flood/conflict/child                                                    child trafficking areas
trafficking affected
areas
Percentage of female
headed households
0                10-20%                            29%
receiving cash
assistance
Percentage of HHs to
which PMT applied
.0                               100%                             100%
to determine
participation
Percentage of HHs
collecting their
90%                100%                            99.4%
benefits on a timely
basis


﻿G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
No.     Date ISR               Lot                       IP             Actual Isbursenots
yrcived                                                           (I USI) millions)
I     05/26/2010          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    0.00
2     12/26/2010           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   6.34
3     07/13/2011          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory            17.19
4     12/13/2011     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            21 77
5     06/23/2012           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  2177
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable
1. Disbursement Profile
Original     Formally Revised -- Actual
25-
20-
15-
1 0-
5-
I


﻿
﻿1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1    Context at Appraisal
The Emergency Social Safety Net Enhancement (ESSN) Project was financed by a grant in the amount of
Euro 17.5 million to the Republic of Yemen (ROY) under the European Union Food Crisis Rapid
Response Facility to reduce the negative impact of food price volatility on the poor and vulnerable. The
global food crisis had severely affected Yemen. The doubling of wheat prices in the year before
Appraisal, together with the rise in the prices of rice and maize, threatened to increase the share of the
population living in poverty to levels that had last been seen in 1998. Yemen imported more than three-
quarters of its food needs, and droughts had further increased the population's vulnerability to high food
prices.
Country Background. At the time of Appraisal of the ESSN, the ROY, with a population of about 23.6
million people, and a GDP per capita of about US$930, was among the poorest countries in the world.
Forty percent of the rural population and 20 percent of the urban population lived below the poverty line.
Despite steady progress at the macro level, Yemen had some of the worst social indicators in the Middle
East and North Africa (MENA) Region: a 28 percent literacy rate among women, 18 percent malnutrition,
girl's primary enrollment at 55 percent, and access to safe water at 31 percent. Poverty was pervasive in
rural areas, where much of the population resided. The dispersion of the population and the difficult
topography posed a serious challenge to delivering social services: Yemen had around 35,000 official
villages (with approximately 136,000 human settlements), many with less than 100 households, which
made the provision and maintenance of social services very expensive. The country's fiscal revenues
depended heavily on the oil sector for nearly 75 percent of income and production forecasts indicated that
then existing reserves would be depleted in 8 to 10 years. The fiscal impact of the reduction in oil prices
in 2009 had resulted in the reduction of Government revenues by 30 percent in 2009 compared to 2008,
leading to budgetary constraints and significant cuts in the public budget to most sectors, including the
social sectors. An oil-dependent economy, with projections of declining oil revenues, Yemen had no
short- to medium-term alternative income sources to deliver social services.
Yemen, at the time of Appraisal, was suffering from multiple challenges, compounded by the global food
crisis. Drought conditions, combined with energy, fertilizer and food price increases had imposed
hardship and rising expenses on the population, especially in rural areas. The sharply rising prices of
food and fertilizers, particularly grain, had exacerbated difficulties for the poor, and the country was
facing significant food shortages in addition to high food prices. Yemen's domestic cereal production
accounted for only about 18 percent of the country's consumption; increases in the prices of wheat, a
staple in Yemen, from US$196 per ton in June 2007 to US$440 per ton at the time of appraisal, had led to
increased vulnerability to unstable food prices. The rise in international food grain prices in the context
of meager per capita income growth was seen as having the potential to reverse achievements in the
reduction of poverty over the previous seven years. If not mitigated, the more than doubling of wheat
prices, together with price increases for rice and maize, was expected to increase the proportion of the
population living in poverty above the levels of 1998.
Yemen also suffered from emergencies brought about by natural disasters, as well as societal issues such
as child trafficking and armed conflict. A Category 3 storm and consequent floods in October 2008 had
caused the death of 73 persons, injured many others, destroyed almost 3,000 houses and huts, damaged
almost 4,000 houses and displaced about 25,000 persons. Despite efforts by the Government of Yemen
(GOY) to combat the practice, raise awareness and impose stiff penalties, child trafficking, considered to
be rooted in poverty, still affected about 600 to 700 children every year. Governorates bordering Saudi
1


﻿Arabia were the highest affected due to the openness of the border and as poor families would send their
children to work in Saudi Arabia, forcing them into a life of begging and abuse. Finally, conflicts in the
northern areas of the country created an emergency situation that had resulted in about 100,000 displaced
people, making the GOY's efforts to provide necessary services to assist the poor and vulnerable all the
more difficult.
Sector Background. In response to the challenges posed by the severe global food, fuel and financial
crisis that had deeply affected Yemen, and the drought, floods and increased fertilizer prices, and the
impact of all of these factors on especially the rural poor, the GOY had developed and was implementing
a Poverty Reduction Strategy. One of the four main pillars of the strategy was to protect the poor and
vulnerable through a comprehensive social safety net program. Yemen had developed a multi-tier safety
net, including highly successful community-driven programs (notably under the Social Fund for
Development, SFD, and the Public Works Project, PWP), and the provision of defined benefits of limited
cash transfers to the poorest (through the Social Welfare Fund, SWF). At only 0.6 percent of GDP,
public financing for these programs was modest, especially when compared to similar low-income
countries that spent between 1.5 and 2.0 percent of GDP on safety net programs.
By far the largest share of social expenditure was consumed by an expensive and untargeted subsidy
system, essentially for energy products. Although Yemen's Development Program for Poverty Reduction
(DPPR) took a cautious approach to its political sensitivities and focused on the need to strengthen other
existing programs, the GOY was aware that in an increasingly constrained fiscal environment, it was no
longer possible to delay a reform of the subsidy system, an issue that was expected to take on added
prominence in the future.
In view of budget limitations, the GOY requested donor financial assistance to cope with the food crisis.
One year earlier the ROY had received US$10 million from the Food Crisis Response Trust Fund
(financed out of the Global Food Crisis Response Program, GFRP) to support mainly a SFD workfare
program to mitigate the impact of the food crisis, but also to support and develop the SWF's
administrative capacity and targeting system.
With support from the World Bank, the GOY had created the Social Fund for Development (SFD) in
1997 to address its limited capacity to deliver basic social services to its population. The SFD was tasked
with providing improved access to basic social services for the poorest Yemenis, while setting an example
of an effective, efficient and transparent institutional mechanism. Through its first and second phases, the
SFD supported long-term development for the poor and encouraged innovative and participatory
approaches for delivering social services. The SFD has scaled up its operations from financing of US$80
million in its first phase, to US$175 million in its second phase to US$670 million in its third phase. SFD
benefited from financing from several donors, including the Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development, Department for International Development (DFID), European Union (EU), Islamic
Development Bank, Government of Italy, International Fund for Agricultural Development, KfW,
Government of Netherlands, OPEC Fund, Saudi Fund for Development, US Food Aid and UNESCO.
The Social Welfare Fund (SWF), created in 1996, was Yemen's largest public cash-transfer-based social
safety net. Since its creation, it had gradually expanded to provide cash transfers to almost one million
poor and vulnerable households. In response to the food crisis, in 2009, the GOY doubled the maximum
level of benefits to YR 4,000 (US$20) per case per month, and had announced its intention to double the
number of beneficiaries to at least 1.5 million households as a matter of priority, thereby permitting
coverage of those below the poverty line.
2


﻿The SWF program had suffered in the past from a combination of low benefits and poor targeting, that
resulted in chronically low coverage of the poor and had little impact on poverty. A poverty assessment
carried out in 2007 concluded that the SWF covered only 13 percent of the poor and that nearly two-thirds
of its beneficiaries were not poor according to the national poverty line. Based on these findings, the
GOY embarked on a program of fundamental reforms to the SWF, including those aimed at improving
targeting of the poor, strengthening the service delivery capacity, and implementing a new legal and
policy framework. This was supported by technical assistance provided by the European Commission
(EC) over the years, and the Bank recently began to provide complementary assistance on program
targeting and its reformed design. The program of SWF reforms and program expansion required
immediate technical assistance, capacity building and training.
In 2008, the SWF launched and carried out a national survey to identify the poor and vulnerable in order
to improve targeting and expand the program. In order to ensure access of all poor households, SWF was
expected to support an open application process, whereby applying and assessing applicants' eligibility
for support would be a continuous process. It was expected that eventually, between 7 and 10 million
Yemenis would be recorded, making the SWF database the most comprehensive national record of poor
and vulnerable individuals in the country, and useful to target and coordinate other funds and benefits
across a range of social programs.
Government Strategy. The GOY's Development Plan for Poverty Reduction (2006-2010) and the Social
Protection Strategy (2008) aimed to increase the coverage and effectiveness of the targeted cash-based
safety net to address the impact of food prices and other shocks in the country. The GOY planned to
implement the expansion of cash-based assistance following recovery of the public budget and, when the
political timing was appropriate, to implement the energy subsidy reform program, expected to channel
50 percent of the savings achieved to social programs, including cash-based social assistance. Until then,
to cope with the food crisis in light of its budget limitations, the GOY requested donor financial
assistance to support the SFD and SWF.
Rationale for Involvement. Over and above the impact of the food crisis in 2008, the fiscal impact of the
reduction in oil prices in 2009 had resulted in the reduction of Government revenues by 30 percent in
2009 compared to 2008, and in consequent cuts to the public budget almost across the board, including to
the social sectors. These budgetary constraints were jeopardizing the GOY's plans to expand its safety
net program in response to the food crisis and increase the coverage of existing cash-based programs
targeted at the poorest and most affected by the crisis. The World Bank had been supporting the GOY in
its social protection programs for over 15 years, and the rationale for Bank involvement was strong.
The ESSN was fully consistent with the Yemen Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives, especially
its third strategic objective to "help foster human and social development," and that objective's third
thematic area to "expand the umbrella of social protection and services to poor communities".
Underpinning the subsidy reform challenge and strengthening the capacity of the cash transfer program
were also identified in the CAS as key focus areas for pro-poor management of Yemen's safety net. The
Bank has supported the SFD since its creation through three IDA-funded investment operations, and
provided assistance to the SFD under an Emergency Additional Financing (AF) Grant under the GFRP in
the amount of US$10 million, associated with the Third Social Fund for Development Project. Under the
AF Grant, support was provided to a labor-intensive community civil works program coordinated by SFD
for households in the most affected communities. Complementing assistance that was being provided by
the EC, the Bank's technical assistance and subsequent AF Grant also provided limited financing to the
SWF to: (a) carry out a national survey to double its beneficiary database of poor Yemenis suffering from
high food and fuel prices, (b) put in place a revised targeting system (shifting from categorical targeting to
proxy means testing) that would increase the share of cash transfers received by the poorest beneficiaries,
3


﻿and (c) develop a comprehensive operations manual for all SWF staff. These activities were initial steps
to prepare the SWF for the planned cash transfer program expansion from about one million to 1.5 million
households.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The Project Development Objective was to contribute to the reduction of the negative impact of food
price volatility on the poor and vulnerable in selected areas, and support the protection and building of
community assets in poor communities.
The Project was expected to result in: (i) the creation of temporary job opportunities in approximately
12,000 households in targeted communities; (ii) improvement of community assets related to agriculture,
transportation and basic infrastructure; (iii) the expansion of cash transfer coverage to over 41,000 poorest
households; and (iv) improvement in SWF targeting, and communication with, cash transfer beneficiaries.
The key indicators that were defined to assess progress towards the PDO were the following:
Project Outcome Indicators:
*   Number of households (HH) receiving cash transfers;
*   Amount of grant transferred to beneficiaries;
*   Percentage of households reporting that cash assistance has reduced the food consumption gap,
decreased debt and/or protected productive assets related to food price increase;
*   Number of subprojects rehabilitated (community assets); and
*   Percentage of households confirming that the subprojects implemented support the protection and
building of community assets.
Intermediate Results Indicators:
*   Number of employment days created as a result of subprojects implemented;
*   Number of paid days per participating household;
*   Percentage of females participating in the workfare program;
*   Number of subprojects rehabilitating community assets;
*   Number of new households enrolled to receive cash assistance;
*   Percentage of households receiving cash assistance in flood/conflict/child trafficking affected
areas;
*   Percentage of female-headed households receiving cash assistance;
*   Percentage of households to which Proxy Means Testing applied to determine participation; and
*   Percentage of household collecting their benefits on a timely basis.
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO was not revised.
4


﻿1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The Project's main beneficiaries were expected to be approximately 12,000 households within the
communities most seriously affected by the food crisis to help mitigate the impact of increased food
prices through temporary work opportunities, as well as 41,000 poor households in flood, conflict and
child-trafficking affected areas that were not yet enrolled in the SWF program that would benefit from the
cash transfer. The amounts transferred would help these households cope with the effects of the global
food crisis over a 12-month period.
Component 1 aimed to expand the workfare program initiated under the initial GFRP to reach an
additional 12,000 to 16,000 households within communities most seriously affected by the food crisis,
drought and floods. Through a well-tested community targeting mechanism, this component was expected
to create temporary work opportunities of around 800,000 person days; each participating household
would be given the opportunity to work for a period of nine to twelve months and receive a total of
US$400-US$600, depending on the size of the household.
Communities were to be identified on a set of eligibility criteria, including: (i) community falls under the
most deprived communities as defined through the targeting methodology (see below); (ii) village
population size of at least 300 people; and (iii) at least 70 percent of the households being affected by the
food price volatility, measured by a house-to-house survey carried out by SFD. Targeting of beneficiary
communities and households by SFD was to follow multiple levels of identification, starting with a desk
exercise with a list of the poorest districts from the perspective of food poverty, based on data extracted
from the 2005/06 household budget survey. Sub-districts were to be selected based on criteria that
combined food poverty and population density of the poor, and then a field investigation carried out by
SFD's branch offices would identify the villages most affected by drought, floods and food price
volatility. Within the selected communities, the participating households were to be identified through a
self-targeted method whereby wages were set at 10 to 30 percent below the market rate prevalent in the
areas where the activity was to be implemented.
Component 2 aimed to provide temporary cash transfers to an additional 41,000 households in selected
areas that were not enrolled in the SWF program but that were identified through a then recently
completed SWF household survey and the PMT scoring.' At the time of approval of the grant, the SWF
was finalizing findings from a national survey to re-identify its targeted households. Multiple methods
were utilized to communicate with and encourage local communities to report needy households. The
SWF had a database of 1.6 million poor households covering all districts. The SWF was to apply the
PMT methodology for targeting its beneficiaries. The 41,000 households benefiting from Component 2
would be selected using PMT to identify those households below the food poverty line. Priority under the
ESSN was to be given to poor households in flood affected areas (Hadhramout and Mahara); conflict
affected areas (Saada and Amran); and areas with high prevalence of child trafficking (Hajja, Al-
Mahweet and Hodeidah). This component was expected to cover beneficiaries in 58 districts and 7
Governorates.
1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Proxy Means Test (PMT) generates a score for each applicant on the base of observable characteristics using
statistical models. Weights and selection of variables are derived from statistical analysis (usually ordinary
linear regressions, but it can be principal component analysis or discrete models) of detailed survey that had
collected wealth information for the population of interest.
5


﻿The ESSN was expected to achieve its objectives through the implementation of two main components in
two phases: (i) workfare assistance to approximately 12,000 poor households capable of participating in
the program; and (ii) direct cash transfers to approximately 41,000 households under the food poverty line
in selected areas affected by flood, conflict and areas prone to child trafficking.
Component 1: Workfare Assistance and Impact Evaluation (Euro 10.197 million)
Sub-Component 1.1. Expand workfare assistance for the needy (Euro 9.8 million). This sub-component
was to finance the provision of sub-grants under the workfare assistance program to about 12,000 to
16,000 households within the most seriously affected communities for the carrying out of basic
infrastructure activities (subprojects) in the fields of soil protection, agricultural terraces rehabilitation,
maintenance and improvement of local feeder roads, paving of streets and other types of labor-intensive
works based on the demand and priority needs of each community. The sub-grants would cover wages,
materials, local consultants, training and transportation directly related to the mobilization of communities
and implementation of the subprojects.
The Project would expand the Phase I workfare program under the SFD III that had been initiated under
the initial AF GFRP grant to reach additional households affected by the food crisis. Cash would be
provided to help mitigate the impact of increased food prices through temporary work opportunities
through a well-tested community targeting mechanism, as well as supporting rehabilitation of basic
community assets. It was estimated that 60-70 percent of the sub-component cost would be for wages,
and approximately 30 percent for the cost of materials, project mobilization/supervision activities, etc.
Participating households were expected to earn US$400-600 equivalent, for an average of 66 days
participation spread over a period of six to nine months, depending on the nature of the subproject.
Sub-component 1.2. Impact Evaluation and component management - workfare program (Euro 0.397
million). This sub-component would support the implementation of the program's phase II baseline study
and an impact evaluation of the workfare assistance program through the provision of consultants' service,
and financing of up to Euro 298,000 for SFD incremental operating costs.
Results from the Phase I beneficiary assessment were to contribute to the design of the Phase II impact
evaluation. The impact study would provide lessons and policy recommendations for further SFD
workfare expansion, as well as contribute to the social protection dialogue concerning the protection of
the able-bodied poor.
Component 2: Temporary Cash Assistance for Poor Households (Euro 7.303 million)
Sub-component 2.1. Cash transfers to poor and vulnerable households (Euro 7.140 million). This sub-
component was designed to provide temporary cash assistance grants to about 41,000 eligible poor
households in selected areas, who were not yet enrolled in the SWF program but had been identified
through the then recently completed SWF household survey and the developed PMT scoring. Those
households, that were to be located in flood, conflict or child trafficking areas, would receive US$20
equivalent/month to help them cope with the price pressures over 12 months. The sub-component would
also finance the contracted payment agency administrative fee.
Sub-component 2.2. Evaluation and component management - cash assistance program (Euro 0.163
million. This sub-component was designed to support an evaluation of the temporary cash assistance
program to address the targeting, operational processes and results of the program at the household level.
The sub-component would also finance: (a) the salary of a local financial management specialist to
support the SWF Finance Department to meet fiduciary requirements; (b) the fee for the external auditor;
6


﻿and (c) additional local consultants as required, and (d) travel costs for SWF staff for field follow up and
supervision.
The evaluation findings would provide lessons learned and policy recommendations for the overall SWF
program, as well as contribute to the dialogue in regard to policy options for the reform of the wider
safety net programs.
1.6 Revised Components
The Project's components were not revised.
1.7 Other significant changes
The Grant's Closing Date was extended twice, through project restructurings. The first extension was
approved on May 18, 2011 to extend the original Closing Date of June 30, 2011 to December 31, 2011.
On December 7, 2011, the GOY requested a second extension of the Closing Date until June 30, 2012. At
that time, the Project was under suspension due to the prevailing countrywide suspension of
disbursements during the period of intense internal conflict. No action was taken at the time since OP/BP
13.30, paragraph 6 (b) prohibits the extension of the closing date for projects under suspension. However,
BP 13.30, paragraph 9 allows the Bank to delay the closure of the grant account and cancellation of the
Grant funds. Consequently, by letter dated December 21, 2011, the Bank delayed the closure of the Grant
Account and Cancellation of the Grant Funds until the suspension was lifted on January 20, 2012. On
March 1, 2012, the Grant's Closing Date was retroactively extended until June 30, 2012.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
An Emergency Operation Framed within the Bank's Assistance Strategy. The Project was processed as
an Emergency Operation under OP/BP 8.00, which provides the policy framework for rapid response
operations, and consistent with the recommendations approved by the Board under the GFRP. This was
justified since the Project would address the adverse economic and social impacts resulting from the
global food price increase which doubled wheat prices in Yemen in 2008, and from the drought that
further increased the population's vulnerability to high food prices. Unless the effects from these factors
were mitigated expeditiously, the high food prices, further aggravated by the international financial and
economic crisis, were likely to cause major adverse economic and social impacts, and rapidly increase the
number of people living in poverty in a country where an estimated 40 percent of the population were
already below the poverty line.
At the time the ESSN was approved, the Bank had been engaged in social protection in Yemen for 15
years, and envisaged a long-term engagement in the sector with each operation building upon successes
and lessons of the earlier ones (Box 1). The ongoing assistance, upon which emergency support could be
delivered rapidly and built upon under the ESSN Project, then led to an eventual integrated program of
support for social protection that exists today.
7


﻿Box 1: Bank Assistance to Social Protection in Yemen, before and after ESSN
Project                            Approval      Amount        Project ID
(US$m)
Earlier Lending:
SFD Project                        5/22/97       30.0          P041199
Second SFD Project                 5/23/00       75.0          P068830
SFD III Project                    02/26/04      60.0          P082498
SFD III (Supplemental)             06/19/07      15.0          P102181
AF Grant for Third SFD             06/26/08      10.0          P112345
Subsequent Lending:
SFD IV                             03/30/10      60.0          P117949
Social Welfare Fund Institutional
Support Project              06/17/10      10.0          P117608
Labor Intensive Public Works Project  05/01/12   61.0          P122594
Proposed Lending:
Emergency Crisis Recovery Grant Project          100.0
Non-Lending Technical Assistance:
* Review of SFD's Workfare Program
* Improving Administration of the SWF (2009)
*   Social Protection Strategy (2008)
The Bank has supported the SFD since its creation, and has had ongoing assistance to both the SFD and,
on a more limited scale, to the SWF, through technical assistance and the emergency AF Grant mentioned
above (Section 1.1). The ESSN complemented earlier support to the SWF that focused on providing
technical assistance to improve the targeting of its ongoing cash transfer program through application of
PMT as well as supporting the development of a comprehensive operations manual for all SWF staff.
These efforts were seen as critical to prepare the SWF for a planned cash transfer program expansion
from about one million to 1.5 million households. At the time of preparation, a proposed SWF
Institutional Support Project (H570-RY) aimed at providing technical assistance to strengthen targeting
and contribute to building the human capital of the SWF beneficiaries was also under preparation.
Follow-up assistance to the SFD was also to be provided under the now ongoing SFD Phase IV Project
(H548-RY).
Financial assistance was complemented by the Bank's policy and sector work, including support for a
review of SFD's workfare program, a social protection strategy framework and an SWF program review.
As a result, financing under the Project was a continuation and expansion of support under earlier and
then proposed operations and through institutions already engaged with the Bank, although through a
more limited engagement for the SWF at the time. It was also coordinated with support provided by other
donors, most notably the EC, DFID and the Netherlands. More importantly, however, assistance under
the Project was designed and implemented within an overall assistance strategy that was not only short-
term and emergency in nature, but focused on strengthening the overall capacity and delivery mechanisms
of the workfare and cash transfer programs as a medium- to long-term objective towards enabling these
safety net programs to respond effectively to potential future shocks as well. This longer term objective
was to be supported through the Bank's future financial and technical assistance, and was seen as
important in view of the economic and political tensions that Yemen was experiencing.
8


﻿Lessons Learned from Previous Operations. The Project's design took into account lessons from the
experience with the SFD and SWF described above, as well as from other operations in Yemen and from
other global emergency programs. Since it provided an expansion of the emergency AF Grant, it adopted
the same basic design for both the workfare and the cash transfer programs but simplified and improved
the design in several areas, based on experience under the earlier grant. These adjustments included: (a)
improving communications; (b) matching community skills with projects; (c) using consultant engineers
during project design and implementation; (d) improving promotion of women's participation; (e)
introducing a complaint mechanism; (f) simplifying project administration; and (g) promoting agricultural
activities. Consistent with lessons from other emergency operations, the Project's Results Framework
was succinct, and focused on those measurable results and outcomes that could be attributable to its short
implementation. Finally, following SFD's experience during earlier phases, the Project supported the
SWF's closer engagement with and support of civil society organizations in monitoring and supporting its
service delivery, especially with regard to targeting and benefits delivery.
Focus on Implementation. Project preparation devoted attention to addressing issues that would ensure
efficient project implementation. Operations manuals/guidelines were prepared to guide implementation,
and several measures were taken to ensure smooth implementation. These included: (i) setting simple
and clearly defined eligibility criteria for the selection of subprojects under Component 1; (ii) using the
post office to deliver cash assistance to beneficiaries under Component 2, thereby benefiting from its
experience and network; (iii) recruiting qualified engineers to support the identification and supervision
of subprojects under Component 1; and (iv) recruiting a qualified financial management specialist for
SWF under Component 2.
Risks. Project preparation identified an extensive list of risks that could affect its implementation, both
overall and specifically for activities implemented by the SWF under Component 2 since the institution
had limited experience in engaging with the Bank and required substantial strengthening to scale up its
program and improve targeting. Along with risks identified, preparation incorporated specific measures
aimed at mitigating identified risks.  In retrospect, the main risk that materialized and delayed
implementation, especially under Component 2, was that of economic and political instability and unrest,
for which the preparation team had commented, correctly, that mitigation was beyond the scope of the
Proj ect.
The project's design made use of country systems to the extent possible, as evidenced by using the SWF's
own staff to implement the cash transfer program and the Central Organization for Control and Audit
(COCA) audit reports of the SWF as an entity. Due to the fiduciary risks associated with the use of
country systems as well as the high risk nature of cash transfer programs, the Project's design included
key mitigating measures, such as: (a) the use of a Project Support Unit staffed with qualified staff using
an automated accounting system and following a detailed operations manual; and (b) use of quarterly
audits conducted by an independent external audit firm based on terms of reference tailored to the
Project's needs, including a requirement of the auditor to carry out sample field visits to beneficiaries to
verify eligibility to receive the cash transfers. The need for technical assistance to build the capacity of
the SWF's accounting department was identified so that it could prepare acceptable consolidated financial
statements. The Project's design also considered the large volume of cash payments to SWF's
beneficiaries through the Post Office. Though there were proper controls in place at the post office to
ensure proper transfer of funds, an independent qualified private external auditor was engaged in
conducting field visits to a sample of selected beneficiaries and post offices to validate the beneficiaries'
eligibility and their proper receipt of funds.
9


﻿2.2 Implementation
The ESSN was approved on December 16, 2009. The Grant Agreement was signed on March 16, 2010,
and declared effective on April 27, 2010. The Grant's Closing Date was extended twice, until June 30,
2012 (Section 1.7). Throughout implementation, the Project's Implementation Status and Results Reports
rated Development Objective and Implementation Progress as either Satisfactory or Moderately
Satisfactory. The only Performance Rating that received an unsatisfactory rating was Counterpart
Funding, when the GOY delayed its contributions for the operating costs of Component 2.
The 2011 Crisis. Since its unification in 1990, the Yemeni state had been grappling with establishing a
viable central authority and creating a pluralistic political system within a unified nation-state. The 2011
uprisings in Tunisia and Egypt provided impetus to Yemen's many disaffected populations to follow suit.
Initial protests against unemployment, economic conditions and governance soon escalated to calls for
more fundamental political and social change. The ensuing protests in 2011 were a reflection of the
political, social and economic crises that had been building over the years, exacerbated by poverty, lack
of employment opportunities and of faith in the Government's ability to meet pressing challenges. The
effects of the crisis were devastating: economic activity contracted severely, unemployment rose, and
poverty that was already increasing at the time of the crisis is estimated to have increased from 42 percent
of the population in 2009 to 54.5 percent at the end of 2011.2 The U.N. World Food Program estimates
that food insecurity increased dramatically, in part as a result of the crisis. Approximately 45 percent of
the population was food insecure in March 2012, up from 32 percent in 2009.3
Following almost a year of the political crisis, Yemen followed a political transition brokered by the Gulf
Cooperation Council and supported by the United Nations and the international community that
culminated in a Transition Agreement signed on November 23, 2011. The president stepped down after
33 years in power, and, in the election that took place on February 21, 2012, a new president took office.
The second phase of the transition, to be carried out over a two-year period, will involve a national
dialogue with participation of stakeholders and the drafting of a new constitution, culminating with
general elections and the inauguration of a new president. Paradoxically, although poverty and food
insecurity increased during implementation due to factors exogenous to the Project, the relevance and
importance of the programs it supported increased dramatically.
Country-wide Suspension of Disbursements to Yemen. The Project had been making good progress
until the beginning of March 2011 when the prevailing country situation started to have an impact on
implementation. With the deteriorating situation, the Bank suspended disbursements across the Yemen
portfolio on July 28, 2011. This was justified as: (i) key government counterparts were not able to
perform their obligations under the relevant legal agreements; (ii) parts of the project implementation
areas were not accessible; and (iii) the security environment was inadequate for Bank presence and
supervision. The cash assistance for the first three months (September, October and November 2010) had
been transferred to 40,007 households in November 2010 but the Project was not able to transfer the
remaining funds until November 11, 2011 when a pending withdrawal application of Euro 3.4 million,
which covered six months (December 2010 through May 2011), was released. During this time, the
40,007 beneficiaries who had received the first payment complained to branch offices for not paying since
2   Joint Social and Economic Assessment for the Republic of Yemen, World Bank, United Nations, European
Commission, Islamic Development Bank, 2012
Yemen Comprehensive Food Security Survey, U.N. World Food Program, March 2012
10


﻿December 2010. Exceptional efforts were made to maintain progress under the Workfare Assistance
Component, though price increases in material and fuel costs and the security situation did have some
impact. On January 20, 2012, following a reassessment, the Bank determined that conditions had
improved sufficiently to lift the suspension of disbursements for the Yemen portfolio.
Security Situation in the Country. Implementation of the project became challenging in view of the
security situation. Procurement activities could not be reviewed and appraised for many items such as
contracting of the labor intensive works, maintenance of procurement records, etc. The post office
branches were unable to function for a few months in Saada and Amran Governorates, given the conflict
situation. In view of this, the SWF prepared a new list of beneficiaries and proposed to replace the
caseload from Saada and Amran from within other targeted govemorates, applying the targeting criteria.
Due to the Project's short implementation period and the situation in the war affected areas, the Bank
agreed to this proposal. Security also delayed the fieldwork for beneficiary verification and enrolment.
Finally, the submission of a final withdrawal application by SWF was delayed due to a prolonged strike at
the SWF--an aftermath of the political crisis--which also posed problems for the external auditor in
accessing the SWF premises to review the supporting documents for the interim financial reports. The
stoppage of cash transfers due to the suspension had a negative impact on beneficiaries who rely on
predictable payments, especially since the cash assistance provided was often the last resource for the
poorest households affected by the crisis.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Design. Monitoring and evaluation was to be carried out by both SFD and SWF. Monitoring reports
were to be submitted semi-annually as per the monitoring indicators in the Project's Results Framework.
SFD monitoring would be carried out by the head office staff together with staff of branch offices near
project sites to ensure that subprojects were meeting their participation and community asset
improvement targets. Monitoring would also include participant assessments to ensure that person/day
reports were accurate and verifiable, and that wages were being paid. The SFD would conduct field
assessments to develop a final list of potential participating villages with high poverty rates. In potential
villages, the SFD would conduct an initial random door-to-door survey sampling of village households to
assess community eligibility and interest in participating in workfare program. If sufficient households
provided positive responses (at least 70 percent), a full survey of the community would be completed to
identify interested workfare participants and develop a project socio-economic baseline. During this
survey, the SFD would determine all sources of household income (including SWF benefits) for each
participating household and establish the household benefit level base on application of the wheat
consumption gap formula, taking into account other payments.
The SWF through its M&E Department and branch offices would monitor the number of new beneficiary
enrolments from selected areas (flood, conflict, child-trafficking) as well as determine whether the PMT
was used in selecting beneficiaries, based on their database of the poor to determine those below the food
poverty line in the selected areas. The SWF database of the poor was established resulting from the
house-to-house survey of potential beneficiaries nationwide that included 1.62 million households (about
50 percent of the populations). The SWF Cash Transfer component was expected to add approximately
40,000 new beneficiaries selected from seven govemorates and 58 districts affected by floods, child
trafficking and conflict. Regional coverage would be adjusted if necessary to fully utilize ESSN resources.
Cash transfers would be delivered through a tested intermediary (the post office) on a quarterly basis,
with financial monitoring reports submitted to SWF. SWF would track information from these reports to
identify households not collecting benefits and would request a follow-up by the nearest SWF Social
Research or other appropriate Governorate/district staff member to determine the cause. The financial
reports would also be monitored to determine benefits received by female-headed households.
11


﻿The Project's design also contemplated an impact evaluation for both Components. SFD's Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit had developed a strong evaluation capacity. A rigorous impact evaluation
methodology was designed to measure food consumption behaviors and changes due to project cash
assistance based on comparisons of control and participant groups. The evaluation was expected to focus
on the issue of increased food consumption and other coping mechanisms to deal with food prices
volatility. Community perceptions of benefits arising from protecting and building community assets
would also be assessed. Baseline data for the evaluation (a random sample including 120 communities of
which 60 selected as control group and 60 as treatment group was collected in April-May 2010. The
evaluation contemplated for the SWF component was seen as an opportunity for the agency to build its
evaluation capability. The Bank would assist in the technical design of the end-of-project evaluation,
with an outside survey firm contracted to collect specific baseline information from a representative
sample of new beneficiaries. The evaluation would assess the targeting efficiency of the PMT; the
efficiency of administrative and operational processes; and the impact of the program on households'
welfare. The survey sample would be resurveyed at project completion to determine the impact of ESSN
cash assistance on food consumption patterns and/or use of coping mechanisms. Satisfaction data
(satisfaction with the SWF payment mechanism, level of program information and support received from
SWF) would also be collected at the same time.
Implementation and Utilization. Throughout the project, SFD insisted on and implemented a high
standard, transparent, and independently implemented monitoring and evaluation methodology. It
presented regular bi-monthly progress reports even during the crisis in 2011 to keep all stakeholders
informed and accountable for resources they were using. SFD monitored its subproject implementation
through its MIS together with field visits by branch office staff. SFD's nine branch offices have
strengthened their capacity to the extent that most of their operations are decentralized and implemented
at the branch office level, and monitored and supervised at the local level. SWF submitted regular semi-
annual progress reports detailing progress as per the indicators in the Project's Results Framework. The
external auditor's terms-of-reference were expanded to include a verification of a sample of beneficiary
households, while continuous dialogue with the Government and stakeholders, together with technical
assistance in coordination with EU programs, have helped strengthen poverty-based targeting, expanding
by 500,000 the number of beneficiary households assisted during the crisis period.
As a targeted poverty program, a key concern for monitoring has been on the targeting mechanisms
applied by both SFD and SWF. Both institutions have demonstrated strong priority in monitoring the
accuracy of their targeting efforts. Earlier evaluations of SFD's targeting have consistently shown that its
programs were well targeted. However, following methodological issues with the carrying out of an
impact evaluation by an independent consultant firm in 201 0,4 SFD carried out a desk assessment of its
targeting in 2011 based on data extracted from its MIS which was complemented by several follow-up
analyses by the Bank and donors.
SFD has been extremely proactive in using monitoring and evaluation results and information collected
through its comprehensive MIS to improve operations (especially procurement and disbursement) and
strengthen program design. The LIWP went through adjustments as a result of several assessments,
including a field survey. As an example, SFD realized that LIWP projects tended to be more supply
driven where there was a share of the work for each household in the targeted village. As a result,
The methodology used in the 2010 Impact Evaluation of the SFD program, carried out under the SFD III
Project, was considered flawed, as it was based on consumption rather than income -based data, due to lack of
availability of the national Household Budget Survey data.
12


﻿households that were not interested in the work would sell their share. SFD adjusted the program by
applying eligibility and self-targeting mechanisms. By applying self-targeting mechanisms (applying
lower than market rates), the LIWP was able to filter out those HHs who were not as poor. SFD has also
adjusted and expanded the LIWP in response to the crisis, based on experience under the Project. The
SFD's response to the aftermath of the 2011 crisis through temporary employment and other strategies (in
draft), proposes to expand the LIWP program while at the same time diversifying and simplifying its
activities and interventions in order to increase the relief and humanitarian dimension of the program,
through temporary suspension of long-term interventions while scaling up shorter term activities. Given
increased urban rural migration caused by lack of security in urban areas and lack of employment causing
an additional burden to rural households (hence increasing the food insecurity situation), the expanded
objective is to have nationwide coverage in rural areas where prevalence of food insecurity is high and
areas of high concentration of unemployment in urban centers, while focusing on shorter term
interventions (4-6 months) that can reach a greater number of households.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguard. The Project was rated Environment Category B, and the safeguard policy on Environmental
Assessment OP 4.01 was triggered with respect to subprojects under Component 1. However, the scale of
the projects to be implemented under the workfare program, targeted at small community asset
rehabilitation sub-projects, was such that no significant environmental impacts were expected. The SFD
had an Environmental Management Plan in place and conducted environmental screening for each sub-
project before works began. Regular environmental audits were also carried out as a matter of routine.
The community sub-projects were to focus on existing community assets and no land
acquisition/resettlement would be required.
Financial Management. SFD maintained satisfactory arrangements using their financial management
system through the Financial Management Department and the Internal Audit department, implementing
adequate internal control procedures following their operations, complying with their Financial
Management Manual that describes well the related guidelines encompassing the authorization and
internal control cycles and employing their computerized accounting system. The SFD has a qualified
Internal Audit Department led by the Internal Audit Manager, who reports directly to the SFD's
Managing Director. The department is responsible for conducting regular audits for the branches,
departments and units within SFD. The SFD used the Interim Financial Reports for documenting
expenditures and requesting advances from the grant funds. All Interim Financial Reports submitted by
SFD were found to be acceptable; SFD submitted its overall consolidated annual audited financial
statements and separate project audited financial statements on time, and they were found to be acceptable
to the Bank.
The SWF maintained adequate financial management arrangements through retaining a financial
management specialist (funded by the Project) and following their Financial Management Manual. SWF
follows cash basis accounting using an automated accounting system developed and supported in-house
by their information technology contractor. The accounting system is capable of recording the project's
transactions and generating the quarterly Interim Financial Reports for documenting expenditures and
requesting advances form the grant funds. The SWF plans to develop the system to add cash forecasting
to the package. The contracting of an external auditor was delayed resulting in delays in submission of
Interim Financial Reports. The SWF submitted the 2010 audited financial statements with an unqualified
opinion, but as a result of the country situation, was not able to get their overall entity audit report ready
in time. The Bank agreed to extend the due date of the overall entity audit report to December 31, 2011,
and, as an alternative procedure, the Bank agreed that this audit report be prepared by COCA together
with SWF's Internal Audit Report which was submitted and accepted by the Bank. The audit report (by
13


﻿the external auditor) for the period ending December 31, 2011 was submitted on June 27, 2012 and the
2012 audit report for the period January-September, 2012 (including the grace period) was submitted
November 4, 2012. Both reports were unqualified (clean); the 2011 overall entity audit report prepared
by COCA is still pending and expected by December 31, 2012. SWF's Internal Audit Department
includes an Internal Audit Manager and six internal auditors who are responsible for conducting
inspections and reviewing the beneficiary registries. There is a need to strengthen SWF's financial
management team, including the Internal Audit Department, and this is being supported under the
ongoing SWF Institutional Support Project (ISP).
Procurement. In view of its previous experience with Bank-financed operations, SFD's capacity for
managing and implementing procurement-related processes was considered strong. SWF had more
limited experience, and contracted an international procurement advisor to strengthen its procurement
function. Procurement activities were implemented efficiently and transparently. A procurement post-
review, based on a desk review, noted that procurement had been handled well, and payment reviews of
SFD transactions noted that funds were claimed for eligible expenditures, properly recorded and reported,
and all related supporting documents were in order and filed accordingly.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Even before the recent social, political and economic crisis (Section 2.2), support to Yemen's social
protection system was very much at the center of the Bank's assistance strategy. Support to the SFD had
entered its fourth phase (2011-2015), with the approval of the SFD IV Project (US$60 million) in March
2010. The objectives of the SFD IV are to: (i) improve access to basic services; (ii) enhance economic
opportunities; and (iii) reduce the vulnerability of the poor. The project has four components, of which
two are very directly related to sustainability of activities supported by the ESSN: (i) capacity building
program; and (ii) LIWP. Under the capacity building program, SFD IV is supporting all of SFD's
programs (other programs include the community and local development program and the small and
micro enterprises development program) through a focus on capacity building of local entities, including
local and central government bodies, NGOs, and communities. It also supports the strengthening of
SFD's own institutional capacity, including for example monitoring and evaluation, management and
transparency. Expansion of support for the LIWP, which has now become an important component of
SFD's mandate, would provide a continuation of the assistance provided under the Project. SFD's
reoriented strategy, resulting from the 2011 crisis, requires that the LIWP expand its geographical
coverage to provide temporary employment opportunities to approximately 370,000 more beneficiaries
than originally planned albeit for a shorter duration. This scaling up will require that SFD increase its
implementation capacity and/or adopt implementation models that are less management intensive.
Continuing Bank support to the SWF ISP is being financed by a US$10 million IDA Grant. The project
is supporting and implementing the SWF reform as outlined in the revised 2008 SWF Law with a focus
on poverty-based targeting, reduction of the inclusion and exclusion errors, and defining the SWF's role
in beneficiary access to social and economic opportunities. The project development objectives are to: (i)
increase the share of poor households among the beneficiaries of the cash transfer program; and (ii)
contribute in building the human capital of SWF beneficiaries in selected districts. The ISP will support
the SWF to develop and implement a new poverty-based targeting policy and strengthen the SWF's
administration and management of its Cash Transfer Program to improve program outreach and
performance. Under the project, a communication strategy is being developed and implemented to
promote the SWF reform and increase program transparency and accountability. Through pilot activities,
alternative options for the Beneficiary Development Program will be designed and delivered to assist
those capable of working to exit the cash transfer program due to increased economic opportunities.
Results will be assessed to capture lessons learned and best practices to scale up on a national level. ISP
14


﻿design also features the engagement of civil society organizations and community participation as
measures to improve social accountability for service delivery.
Both of the above operations are under active implementation, and during the final supervision of the
ESSN, consultations were held between SFD's LIWP team and the Bank to discuss some of the key
challenges that the program is facing in its efforts to scale up, and propose possible approaches and means
of technical support to assist SFD in dealing with these challenges. The teams agreed to five areas from
which SFD could benefit from technical support, including:
(i)  supporting the program in terms of policy development and make it close to other governmental
and organizational programs that have similar objectives, since there is a concern that the LIWP
can be better aligned to other food security and social protection interventions of the Government;
(ii) identifying alternative management and organizational frameworks, as well as suitable
implementation mechanisms, since SFD's experience with direct implementation so far was that
it is very management intensive which presents a potential constraint for scaling up the program;
(iii) exploring options to simplify and/or improve the targeting mechanisms, since there may be scope
to simplify the targeting for the short-term rural LIWP (one opportunity to work) which currently
uses a similar targeting approach as the long-term program (three to five year employment), and
to increase the participation of women;
(iv) supporting the program in terms of financial systems suitable to this kind of program, enabling a
disbursement mechanism that will provide beneficiaries' entitlements on time by minimizing
paper based systems to administer payments, and introducing new technologies for electronically
capturing payment and other data closer to the source; and
(v) supporting the program to identify more activities to enable it to intervene in more areas
regardless of climate and topographic differences, especially in coastal areas, since in coastal
areas, home to some of the poorest communities in Yemen, it has proven difficult to identify
activities for the LIWP. The SFD will update its operational guidelines/manual for the LIWP to
reflect various changes and improvements, and will develop an accompanying training program
and materials to enable training of other parties to be involved in the LIWP projects, including
consultants, local authorities, NGOs and contractors.
Progress towards achieving the ISP's objectives has been slower, although the project is now picking up
its pace following a period of inactivity, and the recruitment of technical assistance necessary for
implementation is underway. SWF is working on a new database that will improve targeting and enhance
efficiency of the cash transfers. The new system will allow branch offices to access and update the
central database. The SWF is also developing an automated grievance system that will allow the
institution to register and investigate case-by-case inclusion/exclusion errors based on complaints from
beneficiaries. Challenges include improving communication and contract management, and keeping track
of contracts so as to avoid interruptions in operations and unnecessary and time-consuming procedures.
More importantly, experience begun in earnest under the ESSN Project and continuing under the ISP has
built a solid foundation for an effective vehicle to deliver assistance to the poor and needy in Yemen
through the SWF. A proposed Emergency Crisis Recovery Grant, currently in an advanced stage of
preparation, will build upon this experience, along with previous technical assistance, to provide
continuing assistance to the GOY in mitigating the impact of the crisis on the poorest and most vulnerable
HHs, inter alia through financing cash transfers through the SWF to poor families made more vulnerable
by the crisis of 2011. Together with ongoing assistance from the LIWP under the SFD IV Project, this
support has put in place an effective and increasingly coordinated and well-targeted safety net system that
can address routinely the needs of the poor, but also adapt to address the effects of crises.
15


﻿3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The Project's Development Objective, the activities it supported and its design to deliver fast-disbursing
assistance through established institutions, were relevant to Yemen's country priorities at the time the
Grant was approved. Given the current very fragile circumstances in Yemen, the ability of the country's
social protection system to effectively deliver services to the poor and vulnerable is crucial in building the
public confidence in the state and the donors' confidence in the two main social protection institutions,
i.e., the SWF and the SFD. Despite the difficult environment, the two institutions continue to provide
much needed support to the population.
The Project continues to be totally aligned with the Bank's 2010-2013 CAS, in its overall objective to
facilitate Yemen's further progress towards the MDGs, and in its second and third strategic objectives to
help enhance governance and help foster human and social development, respectively. It is also aligned
with the Bank's Strategy Update for MNA, presented to the Board on February 28, 2012, that underlines
the need to improve governance through transparency and accountability measures, create jobs-
particularly for youth and the poor, and increase social and economic inclusion of disadvantaged groups.
More importantly, the PDO is fully aligned with the Transitional Program for Stabilization and
Development (TPSD) for 2012-2014 launched by the Government of National Unity of the Republic of
Yemen in June 2012. The TPSD proposed parallel implementation of an Emergency Response (Pillar 1:
short term priorities), and the initiation of a medium-term Economic Recovery Program (Pillar 2:
medium term priorities). Both pillars of the TPSD recognize the importance of the objective and
activities supported by the Project as sine-qua-non for Yemen to reduce the potential for conflict, stabilize
and develop with broad-based, sustainable growth.   Priority 3 (Addressing Urgent Humanitarian
Reconstruction, and Rehabilitation Needs) of the TPSD's Pillar 1 emphasizes the importance of food
security given its correlation with conflict, of restoration of livelihood opportunities, and of social
protection enhancement by addressing the immediate needs of vulnerable groups (especially women,
children, the elderly and the disabled), including enhancing food security, as well as urgent actions to
increase job opportunities. The SFD and the PWP (supported by three previous IDA-financed projects
and an ongoing Labor Intensive Public Works Project), as well as the SWF are considered effective
vehicles for delivering short-term basic services and creating jobs and income. Priority 3 (Expand Social
Protection) of the TPSD's Pillar 2 highlights the importance of: (i) expanding community-based labor-
intensive works as a vehicle for channeling cash into the hands of the poor to help mitigate the effects of
the crisis both now and then after recovering from the crisis by serving as a productive safety net,
targeting chronically poor districts and female-headed households, and (ii) making social protection more
accessible, inter alia, by developing a civil registry system which identifies poor households thereby
providing multiple benefits including improved targeting of pro-poor programs, and promoting and
closely monitoring a greater involvement of civil society organizations in the provision of social
protection services. Again, the importance of both the SFD and the SWF (in addition to the PWP) is
highlighted as appropriate and effective vehicles to deliver these services, and as instruments for
mobilizing donor funding for these purposes.
In this sense, the Project's design, incorporating both institutions under one instrument, was and continues
to be extremely relevant. Both institutions provided assistance to Yemen's most vulnerable population in
a complementary manner. The LIWP's beneficiaries were able-bodied or transitory poor who were
affected by the food crisis, while the SWF's beneficiaries were poor living below the food poverty line
and living in flood, conflict and child trafficking-affected areas. By supporting both institutions under a
single instrument, the Project provided a platform to not only further strengthen both institutions, but also
contribute substantially to building a safety net system in Yemen. Both institutions have begun to share a
16


﻿database that will improve the targeting of their programs, and they have begun to engage in a dialogue
aimed at possibly using the LIWP as an option for graduation/phasing out for beneficiaries of SWF's cash
transfer program. They are also partnering in various other initiatives, including a proposed Conditional
Cash Transfer Pilot Emergency Targeted Nutrition Intervention Project, in coordination with the Ministry
of Health; the support and assistance provided under the ESSN provided a catalytic vehicle to jump-start
this process of complementary collaboration.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The Project made significant progress towards the achievement of its development objective that was to
contribute to the reduction of the negative impact of food price volatility on the poor and vulnerable in
selected areas, and support the protection and building of community assets in poor communities despite
the prolonged political and security crisis that affected Yemen throughout a large period of its
implementation, causing a six-month suspension of disbursements under the Bank's Yemen portfolio.
Although the outcomes presented a "moving target" since events exogenous to the Project precipitated a
further increase in poverty and food insecurity, its Results Framework, including the indicators selected to
measure progress towards its development objective, was defined in a manner consistent with its design
as an emergency operation that was to be implemented over a short period. As a result, progress towards
each of the selected outcome and intermediate outcome indicators was substantially achieved in all cases.
Progress towards indicators is provided below, along with preliminary information of the impact
evaluations that are currently being finalized.
Workfare Assistance. The SFD's LIWP provided a quick transfer to the poor and vulnerable so that they
could reduce the food consumption gap and decrease household debt among other priorities while
rehabilitating damaged economic and social infrastructure and building community assets. A total of 102
LIWP subprojects were completed from the initial 136 communities that were targeted, creating
employment for 17,818 households (against targets of 100 subproject and 12,000 households,
respectively). Total expenditure on these subprojects was US$13.171 million and of this amount
US$9.695 million was paid out in wages, implying a labor intensity of 70 percent. This high percentage
is due to the direct implementation model adopted by SFD. The average daily wage rate paid was
US$8.30 (average for both skilled and unskilled), while the average market rate was around US$10.20;
wages were, therefore about 18.6 percent below market rates. A total of 964,211 employment days
(against a target of 800,000 days) were created as a result of the implementation of the 102 LIWP
subprojects. The average duration of employment offered to each household was approximately 50 days
(against a target of 66 days), implying an average transfer of around US$544 per household, over an
average period of 4-6 months. This figure was less than targeted due to the increase in the number of
households covered by the Project. Female participation in the program was 14.4 percent. While below
international standards, the rate of female participation was well within the 10-20 percent target set at
appraisal.  The types of subprojects implemented included soil protection, agricultural terraces
rehabilitation, water harvesting schemes, maintenance/improvement of local feeder roads, street pavement
and other types of labor-intensive works based on the demands and priority needs of each community.
The SFD Impact Evaluation used a panel of household survey collected before and after the Project in
randomly selected communities to examine the program's effectiveness in improving economic outcomes.
The impact evaluation for SFD's LIWP has been carried out and final analysis is taking place. Due to the
timing of the evaluation during the 2010-2011 political and economic crises, economic indicators
worsened for all communities in the sample, but treatment communities fared better than control
communities in some measureable ways. The baseline survey was conducted in April-May 2010, and it
was followed by an ex-post survey during the period of November-December 2011.
17


﻿In the survey sample, 74 percent of households in treatment communities had at least one member
participating in SFD's LIWP. There was a wide range in the level of income that these households
received from the program, with 29 percent of households receiving 50,000 Riyals (US$235) or less, and
5 percent of households receiving more than 300,000 Riyals (US$1,415). This variation was a result of
several factors. First, at the household level, LIWP was designed to be self-targeting by setting a wage
lower than the prevailing unskilled wage in the areas, but due to the economic crisis, the average wage
level fell, resulting in LIWP employment being more attractive than originally designed. Secondly, there
was originally an intention to limit households to a maximum number of workdays, but this was not
enforced. Finally, program wages were set by piece rate, resulting in higher wages per day for workers
involved in more skill intensive tasks, or who worked longer hours5. Correspondingly, the number of
men in the family was the strongest predictor of program participation and total benefits received. In
spite of this variation, LIWP benefits were progressive overall, with more benefits going to households
whose scores on a proxy means test on baseline were associated with greater probability of poverty.
The preliminary findings are that the Project was successful in mitigating the impact of food price
volatility. Findings confirm that selected communities are indeed poor, that the economic crisis increased
the demand for participation (affecting self targeting) and that there has been an increased caloric
consumption and an increased likelihood to pay off debts in communities receiving LIWP subprojects.
For employment generation, preliminary findings from the Impact Evaluation are that the LIWP:
*   increased the total number of days worked per household by approximately 60 days per year,
*   increased average wages and shifted the structure of the workforce away from work in the lowest
paid sectors, and
*   caused a significant increase in the probability of female employment.
For impacts on food security and livelihood outcomes, preliminary findings indicate in response to direct
questions that:
*   95 percent of program participants indicated that funds from the program were used to buy food
and pay off debt,
*   59 percent of households reported using income from the project for food and paying off debt
only, and
*   an additional 36 percent spent on food and debt as well as other types of consumption.
There are statistically significant program effects on food consumption, debt repayment, and durable
goods ownership-- on average, households in treatment communities had increased per capita calorie
consumption of staple foods relative to control of approximately 300 calories per day, and were less likely
to self-report that adults were forced to skip meals due to food shortage6. Among indebted households,
households in treatment communities were able to pay off more debt, by 30,000 Riyals (US$141) on
average. Households in treatment communities also had less decrease in the value of durable goods
owned in most specifications. These preliminary findings suggest that the LIWP played a role in
5 Daily wages were set below the market rate. However, participants worked in groups and were paid piece rates
based on the amount of work completed by the group. The group leader calculated the units of work completed by
individual group members in cooperation with the technical consultant. Individuals who worked received implied
wages per day.
6 An estimate of calorie consumption was based on reported consumption of staple grains in the previous two days.
18


﻿cushioning targeted communities from the economic shock of 2010-11, averting possible longer term
consequences related to selling off assets and increased debt. Economic indicators for which preliminary
findings do not reveal a significant treatment effect include animal asset ownership, consumption of
higher value food items, and consumption of non-durables such as clothing and household goods.
While it is too soon to measure the long-term food security effects of local public goods constructed
under the program, when asked directly about their perception of the program effect on community assets,
95 percent reported that the subproject was needed by the community and 79 percent of households
reported that they benefitted directly from the infrastructure built by the subproject. Given the sample
size, the findings did not reveal significant changes in measurable benefits of infrastructure constructed,
such as time spent fetching water or travelling to the nearest market. Finally, although the assets were
created and communities are using and maintaining them, the ESSN was an emergency project with
essentially a shorter-term horizon, and, therefore, it is still too early to evaluate the longer-term impact of
the community assets created.
Complementing the quantitative study, SFD contracted also a qualitative study of the LIWP that used
interviews, focus group discussions and a mini-case study to provide beneficiary feedback on:
*   targeting effectiveness and participation
*   knowledge of the processes of implementation and how wages are calculated
*   how wage income was spent and its impact on beneficiaries;
*   benefits of the infrastructure, and
*   opportunities and challenges.
This qualitative study, based on feedback from beneficiaries, provided important input to complement the
quantitative analysis. It corroborated the quantitative study's findings that LIWP benefits were being well
targeted, and respondents confirmed unanimously that participation was open to all households in targeted
areas. Beneficiaries confirmed that the LIWP provided protection during difficult times in 2011, as the
program enabled poor families to buy basic foodstuffs, pay for other essential needs and pay down debt.
In the visited areas, all respondents agreed that the wages they received were used to repay storekeepers
and pay back medical debts. Similarly, they acknowledged storekeepers were more willing to sell them
food on credit since there were greater assurances that they would be repaid given the beneficiaries
participation in the LIWP. Their participation in the LIWP allowed households to obtain debts to buy
basic goods until they were paid for their work under the program. However, the program did not allow
many families to invest in assets that would improve their living conditions in the medium term since the
cash actually transferred to the families was less than originally anticipated given the unexpected large
number of participants, and payment for work on a piece basis which resulted in a larger share of wages
going to those with greater skills or having a larger number of male members in the household.
This study also found that the program was able to employ the largest number possible of families due to
the diversity of activities that included simple projects that did not require strong skills such as
agricultural terraces, land rehabilitation, roads and water tanks. Beneficiaries reported that they believed
the infrastructure projects responded to their priorities, of which water continues to be the highest. At the
same time, they preferred projects that served all community members such as rural roads and water tanks
The selection of locations for the qualitative study was based on recommendations of the quantitative study team
leaders to include intervention areas that were deemed successful and others facing difficulties and challenges. The
participants in the qualitative study were from among the households visited by the quantitative study.
19


﻿as opposed to projects such as land reclamation or terrace rehabilitation. Beneficiaries of nine of the 14
projects visited highlighted the importance of maintaining and protecting their new infrastructure, and
five of them confirmed that maintenance committees were being formed. The study reports consensus
among participants on a preference for working in their areas as opposed to working in cities since they
could stay close to their families and avoid the high cost of moving to cities and living there. Other
findings were that beneficiaries reported that: (a) they acquired skills from working with more skilled
workers; (b) work injuries were common, suggesting that importance of having some basic first aid; and
(c) cooperation among beneficiaries increased, and continued even after completion of the infrastructure.
Temporary Cash Assistance. SWF's results were equally successful in providing cash transfer to targeted
households in support of the Project's objectives. A total of 40,441 newly enrolled households benefited
from the SWF's direct cash transfer program (against a target of 41,000); and 29 percent of these were
female-headed households (against a target of 10-20 percent). None of these households that were
identified through the 2008 SWF household survey and the developed PMT scoring had been enrolled in
the program before the Project. PMT was applied to determine participation for all cash transfer
beneficiaries. The cash assistance for the first three months (September, October and November 2010)
was transferred to 40,007 households in November 2010, and another six-month payment was transferred
as a lump sum to the beneficiaries in December 2011, after a long delay due to the disbursement
suspension. A final three-month payment was made under the Project on June 20, 2012. In early 2012,
these households were all included in the regular SWF coverage based on the GOY 2012 budget to ensure
continued transfers after Project completion. All of the beneficiary households were located in flood and
child trafficking areas and each has received between US$10 and US$20 per month to help cope with
price pressures over 12 months. A total of Euro 6.978 million was transferred to beneficiaries under the
cash transfer program, equivalent to 98 percent of the Euro 7.0 million grant (as targeted) to SWF. The
remaining 2 percent of the amount allocated to cash transfers under Subcomponent 2.1 financed the
contracted payment agency administrative fee: 2 percent of the total cash transfers to the Yemen Post
Office Authority.
The Project, under Subcomponent 2.2, also financed the contract of an external consultancy firm to assess
how well the cash transfer component of the Project targets poor households and the process of
implementing the project, as well as to evaluate the impact of the cash transfer on the SWF beneficiary
households. The Baseline survey was carried out during September 2010-June 2011 and the most
important recommendations were that efforts to improve program performance should entail reducing
inclusion errors in the Governorates of Hadramout-Seyoun, Mahara, and Hajja in that order, so as to
increase welfare measurement "reality." The resulting budget "savings" could then be used to address the
relatively high exclusion errors in the Governorates of Hodeida, Mahweet and Hajja, in that order. The
follow up survey is currently being carried out and the final report is expected by December 31, 2012'. It
also financed the salary of a local Financial Management Specialist to support SWF's Finance
Department in meeting the Project's fiduciary requirements, the fee for the external auditor as well as
travel cost for SWF staff for field follow up and supervision visits.
3.3 Efficiency
Both SFD and SWF were able to implement their respective components of the Project efficiently. For
SFD, the expectation was that 60 percent of allocated funds would be transferred to beneficiaries as
8 The follow-up survey was delayed mainly as the result of logistical challenges due to security constraints on the
cash transfer program.
20


﻿wages. In effect, SFD was able to transfer 70 percent of allocated funds to beneficiaries as wages,
surpassing the target by 17 percent. SFD's operational efficiency was achieved through low overall
operational costs of 4.7 percent including staff salaries. The institution's cost efficiency is the result of its
operational autonomy, smooth payment process, transparent procurement and close supervision and
monitoring through decentralized operations. The cost of inputs, namely materials used, and the overhead
costs of delivering grant to households reached 15 percent and 6.5 percent, respectively, confirming that
Grant funds were used efficiently. In addition, the LIWP's design, incorporating bottom-up approaches
and direct implementation, was not only efficient, but allowed community adaptation during the 2011
crisis as commercial contractors stopped working.  Similarly, SWF had low operational costs in
delivering cash transfers. Only $61,477 out of an allocation of slightly over $7.0 million was allocated to
the institution's overhead. In addition, the cost of delivering transfers included the 2 percent fee paid to
the Post Office. In all, the cash transfer program was very efficient. There is also strong evidence that
the targeting of both programs was very effective in reaching the most vulnerable and most in need, as
described in Annex 3, Economic and Financial Analysis. Finally, the programs were very effective in
increasing the per capita consumption of basic foods by about 300 calories per day compared with non-
beneficiary control groups and completing 102 community subprojects that responded directly to
beneficiary priorities in selected communities, thereby responding directly to the PDO.
The Project was also very effective in terms of targeting and cost effectiveness. The analysis reveals that
the program as a whole reached about 4.6 percent of the Yemeni population, and 12.6 percent of the
poorest 10 percent of the population. The program allocated about 30.9 percent of benefits to people
classified as among the poorest 10 percent of the population, 47 percent among the poorest 20 percent,
and 74 percent among the poorest 40 percent. For the poorest population, the benefit size represented
about 13 percent of HH per capita consumption. The cost-benefit ratio that measures poverty gap
reduction obtained due to the transfer is estimated at 0.72 using the national poverty live, meaning that for
each C1 spent in the program, E0.72 went to the reduction of the national poverty gap. Given the scale of
the ESSN program, the impact on overall national poverty incidence and gap is small, but substantial
when the beneficiaries are looked at more specifically. The results suggest that the ESSN was quite
successful in reducing the volatility of the impact of food prices, and in mitigating poverty.
A full ex-post Economic and Financial Analysis, describing the ESSN's effectiveness and efficiency in
achieving its PDO with appropriate targeting is described in Annex 3.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
The Project Overall Outcome Rating is Satisfactory, based on its continued-and even strengthened-
relevance, the achievement of its PDO, and the efficiency with which it was achieved. The PDO and the
ESSN's design became more relevant during implementation following events in early 2012, and is fully
aligned with the TPSD for 2012-2014 launched by the Government of National Unity of the Republic of
Yemen in June 2012. Both SFD and SWF are central to the Government's poverty reduction objectives,
and will benefit from the experience and strengthening the gained under the Project. Although the
outcomes presented a "moving target" since events exogenous to the Project precipitated a further
increase in poverty and food insecurity, its Results Framework, including the indicators selected to
measure progress towards its Development Objective, was defined in a manner consistent with its design
as an emergency operation that was to be implemented over a short period. As a result, progress towards
each of the selected outcome and intermediate outcome indicators was substantially achieved in all cases,
as evidenced by the Impact Evaluations carried out for both components. Finally, the Project met its PDO
with operational efficiency---both SFD and SWF had low operational costs for delivering assistance-and
21


﻿with efficiency in its targeting performance by allocating resources under both components to the highly
vulnerable.
The SFD's LIWP and SWF's cash transfer program have proven to be resilient during the recent crisis
period. Funds from the project have provided a platform to further strengthen these two key safety net
programs and no doubt have contributed substantially towards strengthening a safety net system in
Yemen. Although it was not contemplated at the time of the Project's approval, support provided through
the Grant will be extremely valuable for the new, central role that both SFD and SWF will be expected to
play under the Government's TPSD (Section 3.1) in terms of mitigating poverty and increasing
opportunities for the poor and vulnerable in Yemen.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The Project was targeted at poor communities and households and was extremely critical to the needs of
the poor, more so under the current environment. Moreover, it aimed to address especially the needs of
women and female-headed households since women and children in rural areas are probably the most
adversely affected by poor living conditions, and lack of food and basic services. For example, providing
water in rural areas is mainly the responsibility of women and children, especially girls, and the
availability of water within the vicinity of the communities will greatly reduce the burden of fetching
water from distant places on a daily basis. Similarly, rural roads will facilitate access to health and
education facilities. Hence SWF's improvements in targeting and improvements to the LIWP in terms of
income and community assets created were expected to mitigate these adversities in a significant manner.
The Project made good progress in ensuring that women benefited from its activities. The SFD revised
its project guidelines to reflect the adopted gender mainstreaming strategy, and prepared gender checklist
for each stage of project preparation and implementation. Reporting requirements were indentified and
report formats for each stage of the subproject cycle were prepared. The gender monitoring indicators,
including outcome, progress and process indicators, were introduced in the MIS to ensure regular
monitoring. All these were summarized in the SFD gender-mainstreaming handbook. The Project's
positive results in terms of targeting women are described in Section 3.2.
SFD has focused on increasing female participation in its subprojects since the LIWP was introduced.
Despite important progress, experience during implementation of the LIWP revealed that as the program
targets households, not individuals, it is relatively difficult to specifically target women because the
decision of how the household contributes its labor is ultimately made within the household. So, except
for female-headed households, there is no way of guaranteeing that households would decide that the
females in the households would take up work. Given this, it was noted that the LIWP could focus on
making the participation of women more feasible and attractive. Possible measures identified to do this
include:
(i)    structuring work as part-time, thus allowing women to work and still fulfill their household
duties;
(ii)   ensuring that work is offered close to home;
(iii)  creating a working environment that is conducive to the participation of women, including
activities and subprojects that are done by women only;
(iv)   equalizing the income earned so that women and men working a full day are able to eam equal
amounts.
This could require various adjustments and/or interventions including: activities to be reserved
exclusively for women and setting wages and tasks to enable women to earn equal amounts, and for some
22


﻿activities that require large physical efforts, this may involve introducing different task sizes for men and
women. Nevertheless, experience under the LIWP also showed that, in many instances, households had
chosen to complete their tasks by mobilizing several members of the household, including women. In
this way, women did work on the subprojects-although their specific contribution, both in terms of
production and time was difficult to monitor-as the focus remained on monitoring to what extent the
entire household completed the assigned task and thus could be awarded payment. SFD continues to
debate this issue enthusiastically, including engaging in study visits to other countries that have been
successful in increasing female participation in their programs.
The LIWP has also had a positive, catalytic impact on social cohesion, and stability, in communities
where subprojects were implemented. For example, men that had previously earned money through
either illegal immigration or internal armed clashes were reintegrated into their communities to work on
projects that were beneficial to the community and their families. In interviews with beneficiaries, they
expressed increased desire to stay and work in their communities, and continuing to apply their acquired
skills to works in the area. In other communities, beneficiaries worked on occasional Fridays, without
pay, to advance the works. The program has since suggested that beneficiary communities may want to
volunteer one day a week in order to create a spirit of volunteering and empowerment.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Both the SFD and the SWF had benefited from earlier Bank financing (albeit the SWF had limited
engagement with the Bank) at the time the Project was approved (Section 1.1). Nevertheless, activities
supported by the Project, and the experience that the two institutions gained in their implementation that
serve as consistent lessons towards the further improvement of their programs, have undoubtedly had a
positive impact on their respective institutional development, and strengthened their ability and capacity
to live up to their expanded mandate under the TPSD and beyond.
SFD's LIWP program has developed into a full-blown safety net program for Yemen. The positive
aspects of the program at SFD's institutional level include further developing/fine tuning procedures,
establishing/upgrading the MIS, improving on monitoring and data collection tools pertaining to the
LIWP, improved targeting mechanisms, capacity building of staff and consultants in all aspects of
managing LIWP, improving management capacity at head office and branches, intense training of
consultants and creating a related data base/large pool (over 4,000 have been trained). Impacts of these
institutional strengthening are cornerstone in the sustainability of the LIWP to enable it to expand while at
the same time have the ability to absorb additional multi-donor funding in the near future. Enhancing the
institutional capacity of the program and its efficiency to handle larger finances can be regarded as an
important outcome with significant impacts for the country as a whole in addressing issue of food security.
The LIWP program's direct contracting mechanism has performed better than commercial contracting in
the current country context, especially during political upheaval in 2011. Only 3 percent of the LIWP
subprojects had been stopped, compared to 23 percent overall in the SFD's other programs. Participating
communities were very much engaged in implementing subprojects as they offer sources of income for
communities that are quickly running out of other options. In order to overcome the shortages and price
increases of fuel and materials, more local materials have been used and sometimes, communities have
used donkeys and camels instead of vehicles to transport the materials. The LIWP's positive performance
enabled the SFD to mobilize additional donor support (DFID, Dutch and KfW). The lessons learned from
this Project will be fed into the LIWP supported through the Social Fund Phase IV Project.
SFD has increased its visibility as the result of its visibility and communication plan through which its
SFD held workshops with the local authorities at district and governorate levels and introduced them to
23


﻿the Project as a contribution by the EU to reduce the impact of the increase in food prices rise to the
poorest areas in line with the Government's National Food Security Strategy, to empower community in
development and to involve the councils in the process of targeting the poor communities. The SFD
raised local authority awareness by distributing the Cash-for-Work Program brochures describing the
LIWP's activities. SFD's community officers and follow-up consultants raised beneficiary communities'
awareness through periodical face-to-face communication, through communication materials, and several
new releases to the press over many events. It also used videos, photos and texts to publish and document
important case studies especially during the 2011 crisis. Three documentaries were used in several
orientation and operational meetings and workshops and were posted online.
The SWF was also strengthened most notably in that it has improved its targeting based on PMT and the
establishment of the database resulting from a house-to-house survey. Its resilience in delivering its core
services throughout the 2011 crisis built confidence in partners like the Bank for future cooperation, i.e.
the Emergency Crisis Recovery Grant Project which is under preparation. Although this was not a
specific objective of the Project, the continuing need to strengthen capacity is greater for SWF, as its
number of beneficiaries has increased tremendously without commensurate improvement in its capacity
to manage the growing needs.
The SWF has strengthened its ties with Civil Society Organizations (CSO) in service provision,
monitoring and supporting its services provided, most significantly in relation to targeting. The SWF
partnered with CSOs in communicating with target beneficiaries, especially in the disbursement of
payments to beneficiaries, and is working to expand this cooperation and develop a communication
strategy that identifies the expected role for CSOs.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
SFD reported "indirect benefits" of the LIWP including: a decrease in illegal immigration to neighboring
countries, lower internal immigration to main cities, a decrease in conflicts among participating
communities, building self-help among program participants, and unskilled and semi-skilled laborers
gaining experience which helped them find future jobs. Potential benefits include the increase in
agricultural land under production through the completion of subprojects on 529 hectares of land that
should result in increased agricultural production; environmental improvements through terrace
rehabilitation; and increased access to potable water through improved wells and water harvesting
structures.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
The Risk to Development Outcome is considered Moderate. As an emergency project, the ESSN's
objectives were defined in such a way that development outcomes related to the beneficiaries supported
under the Project. In this sense, the subproject beneficiaries have been paid, the community works have
been financed, households report that the works respond to their needs and therefore, the presumption is
that they will be maintained. The 40,441 households that were added to the SWF's beneficiary registry
will continue to receive cash transfers after completion-they have been added to the registry
permanently and the GOY has assigned necessary resources in SWF's general program. The Project's
impacts have been evaluated as described in Section 3.2.
24


﻿Embedded within a longer-term perspective of the CAS, however, the ESSN also had a longer-term
perspective aimed at building an effective safety net in the country. Through a sequence of instruments,
an important effort has been invested in building implementation capacity and administrative systems for
both SFD and SWF, and this effort will help sustain these programs' longer-term outcomes. More
importantly, both SFD's LIWP and the SWF have assumed increased, central roles in Yemen, which in
effect mitigates the risk of the broader development outcome, i.e., sustainability of institutional support
under the project and continued institutional development and expansion in the near future. The SWF is
fully government funded, and has in place an IDA project (ISP), a pilot project with the EU, and technical
assistance from the EU and UNICEF. The SFD counts on funding from about 15 donors and the
government, and the GOY recently mobilized about US$8 billion in donor meetings in Riyadh and New
York for SFD.
While the need for SWF services continued to grow during the past 6 months, with poverty jumping over
60 percent due to high unemployment and the deteriorating humanitarian situation, the SWF is
increasingly facing a number of challenges:
*   insufficient operational budget vis-d-vis an ever increasing number of beneficiaries (budget
decreased from 2 percent to 0.5 percent and even more in absolute terms)
*  the budget released by the MoF is based on that of the previous year and is not reflective of the
SWF's needs despite the submission of new projections for the current year
*   inflated and redundant human resources, posing several administrative and performance
challenges with a non-existent training budget to improve skills
*  poor capacity for monitoring and evaluation
*  the need to develop and institutionalize a beneficiary recertification mechanism that will allow
for filtering beneficiaries and further improving targeting, including through beneficiary
graduation strategy to filter out ineligible beneficiaries freeing resources for the ever increasing
number of eligible beneficiaries due to the humanitarian situation in Yemen.
The SFD has better capacity, but is facing significant financial shortfalls to effectively deliver its vital
services, as mandated in the TPSD. As agreed with donor partners, the SFD prepared a strategy in
response to the 2011 crisis. It articulates SFD's key focus in years 2012 and 2013 as:
*   employment generation will become a cross cutting indicator for various sectors and programs
*  the LIWP will be diversified and have much wider geographic coverage targeting community
who are affected
*   the LIWP's implementation will be accelerated (US$45 million and US$70 million will be
disbursed in 2012 and 2013, respectively)
*   at least 5 million person/days will be added to the temporary employment output of SFD
(increased from 20 million to 25 million) by simplifying the type of works undertaken, in part,
through introducing a new component in the LIWP rural program. The original program that aims
to provide households with employment for a 3- to 5-year period is continuing, but a short-term
component that only provides one period of temporary employment has been introduced. This
shift will enable SFD to reach a larger number of households. The rural subprojects are
implemented either through a direct implementation methods or community contracting whereby
communities have a contract to complete subprojects and the SFD provided materials and
technical assistance to supervise and implement the subprojects.
The community involvement and participation in LIWP subprojects, together with SFD's outreach and
communication effort bodes well for bottom-up sustainability of the LIWP as an effective and response
instrument of temporary employment generation and social protection during the aftermath of the crisis.
25


﻿The SFD has been accelerating implementation of the LIWP to provide immediate relief to families
suffering from the current economic breakdown caused by the political instability. Since the beginning of
2012, 139 subprojects (at an estimated cost of US$30.1 million) have been developed, and 134
subprojects (worth US$28.5 million) are under implementation with funds allocated. These subprojects
are expected to create about 2.7 million working days (17 percent of which are for women) and to benefit
198,252 persons. As of May 2012, 779,000 employment days have been created under the LIWP.
The most notable challenge for these programs' sustainability is financial, in terms of counting on
continuous budgeted flows to sustain programmed expansion, followed by the technical and institutional
challenges that each of the institutions will face to fulfill their mandate. Enhanced collaboration between
SFD and SWF will be important to ensure coordination of their activities, and efficiency in carrying them
out. This collaboration has increased since early 2012, initially through data sharing and regular
communication, training and capacity building, targeting, and monitoring and evaluation. The GOY has
begun discussions as to whether the LIWP can be used as one of the options for graduation/phasing out of
beneficiaries of SWF's cash transfer program.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry is rated Satisfactory. Upon learning of the impact of the
increases in food prices on the poor and vulnerable, the Bank identified an instrument that built upon an
existing program of assistance to scale up benefits for those most affected by the crisis. Consistent with
earlier lessons from emergency lending, the Bank did not impose additional conditions on the Borrower
or Executing Agencies, but used the assistance under the instrument as a vehicle for building upon earlier
and subsequent projects to improve both SFD and SWF's institutional processes and programs, all the
while incorporating lessons of experience in both the Grant and subsequent projects. Bank assistance was
timely, prepared in less than six months, thereby providing just-in-time support for a critical, identified
need. The preparation team's insight into building evaluation as an integral component of the Project will
not only serve to further feed important lessons into both programs, but also served as a vehicle for
strengthening, albeit gradually, both SFD and SWF's evaluation capacity.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank's performance in Quality of Supervision is likewise rated Satisfactory. The Bank's team
supervised the Grant in a very difficult environment, in the midst of a crisis superimposed on the food
crisis that had precipitated the Bank's assistance (and a consequent suspension of disbursements), and that
only served to increase the urgency of delivering financial and technical support since the Executing
Agencies assumed even greater importance in containing the impact of ongoing events. Supervision
missions were mostly conducted in a neighboring country, but were carried out routinely in a timely
manner. As the institutions supported by the ESSN had been engaged with the Bank for many years in
support of their key programs, the need to conduct supervision missions outside of the country did not
affect the Bank's ability to engage constructively and proactively with the clients to provide operational
support. The Bank's team was pragmatic and demonstrated flexibility while ensuring adequate
26


﻿supervision of its fiduciary responsibilities (Section 2.4). Although the Grant, as defined by its results
framework, did not have an institutional strengthening objective, per se, the team never lost an
opportunity for working with both institutions to use the Grant as a vehicle for improving their programs.
Finally, the team continued to work closely with both SFD and SWF to ensure that the evaluations were
of good quality, allowing for incorporating lessons into the institutions' further strengthening.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Overall Bank Performance is rated Satisfactory, based on similar ratings for both Ensuring Quality at
Entry and Quality of Supervision.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Government's performance during preparation and implementation is rated Satisfactory. Despite the
difficult internal environment, the Government continuously demonstrated commitment to the Project and
its development objectives. Although the Government faced enormous fiscal constraints, it provided
required counterpart funding, although in mid- to end-2010, it delayed its contribution to the SWF to
cover for the operating cost of Component 2, causing difficulties for the Project to meet the SWF's
operating costs which were ineligible for Grant funding. Nevertheless, both the Government in office at
the time of approval, and the Government of National Unity that took office in early 2012, considered
both SFD and SWF as important institutions in their efforts to alleviate poverty. The new Government
has assigned central roles for each of these in its TPSD, which not only bodes well for their sustainability,
but for both institutions' efforts to continue strengthening their processes and programs, increase
collaboration among themselves and with other Government agencies and mobilize increased funding in
the future.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall rating for the Project's Implementing Agencies is Satisfactory. Individually, the performance
of SFD is rated Highly Satisfactory, while that of SWF is rated Moderately Satisfactory. As a more
established institution, with greater experience in implementing Bank-financed projects, SFD
demonstrated strong implementation capacity. Its transparent and efficient fiduciary practices,
participatory approaches, implementation through decentralized offices, strong focus on monitoring and
evaluation and constant search for incorporating lessons learned into their programs were important
factors in its strong implementation. SWF had less experience in working with the Bank. Although
weaker institutionally, especially regarding fiduciary and monitoring and evaluation capacity, SWF
nevertheless was able to make significant progress towards its respective development objectives, and,
has, throughout, worked closely with the Bank and donors on efforts to continuously improve its
performance to be in a position that will allow it to step up to the challenge it will face in the future.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Overall Borrower Performance is rated Satisfactory, based on similar ratings for Government
Performance and Implementing Agency Performance.
27


﻿6. Lessons Learned
The Project offers lessons that are relevant both for emergency instruments, country strategies, on the
specific programs it supported. Many of the lessons learned have been identified in earlier interventions
and already incorporated in the Project's design, such as: (i) the importance of working closely with local
authorities, communities and non-governmental organizations to build ownership and improve social
accountability for service delivery; (ii) the need for careful design of impact evaluations, (iii) the
importance of decentralizing institutions to branch offices; (iv) the need for robust and transparent
policies, systems and procedures, and to strengthen targeting, selection criteria, communications,
implementation and monitoring for better results and improved sustainability; (v) the relevance of direct
cash transfers in terms of alternative government spending in alleviating poverty, building human capital,
improving equity and efficiency in spending, among other benefits; and (vi) the importance of
institutionalizing lessons of experience by continuously improving processes, procedures and criteria, and
reflecting improvements in updated operational guidelines and manuals. There are several lessons that
have surfaced specifically from the implementation of the ESSN. They include:
a) Emergency operations embedded within the context of ongoing country strategies can be
effective instruments. Apart from the fact that both SFD and SWF were the government's
principle safety net mechanisms, both had benefitted from Bank assistance previously and were
expected to count on additional support in the future. Hence, the emergency support in response
to the food crisis was provided through institutions that were very much at the center of the
Bank's assistance strategy in its objective of alleviating poverty. This not only facilitated the
preparation of the Grant in an emergency manner, and with knowledge of the strengths and
weaknesses of the institutional framework, but also served to ensure that the lessons during
implementation could be fed into the preparation of future operations in support of SFD and SWF,
both of which are now responding to an even greater crisis.
b) The results framework and expected outcomes and outputs should be designed to reflect
what an operation can reasonably accomplish and measure during implementation. This is
especially relevant in the design of an emergency operation with a short implementation period.
The preparation team was especially realistic in defining the Grant's Results Framework,
selecting mostly output indicators that could be monitored easily and achieved during the
Project's short implementation period, although there were a few indicators for which data will
become available from the impact evaluation built into the Project's Description. Although this is
a very general "lesson", it is particularly relevant for the ESSN given its emergency nature and
short implementation.
c) A countrywide suspension of disbursements can be especially troublesome in the context of
an emergency operation, especially one that channels assistance to the poor and
disadvantaged. The suspension of disbursements and subsequent stoppage of regular cash
payments to SWF beneficiaries for about one year, when they depended even more on the
assistance, put the SWF in a very difficult situation as the institution had to justify why payments
were stopped. It was particularly difficult in the midst of the Arab Spring. There is no easy
answer to this conundrum, but it is worth noting that emergency operations may be subject to this
reality.
d) Public works programs need to be adapted to gender realities. As the SFD targeted
households, not individuals, it was difficult to specifically target women except in the case of
female-headed households. Together with the Bank, SFD identified possible measures that could
make the participation of women more feasible and attractive, including: (i) structuring work as
part-time thereby allowing women to work and still fulfill their household duties; (ii) ensuring
28


﻿that work is offered close to home; (iii) creating a work environment that is conducive to the
participation of women, including activities/subproject that are done by women only; (iv)
equalizing the income earned so that women and men working a full day are able to earn equal
amounts, and (v) for activities that require large physical efforts, introducing different task sizes
for men and women. Still, experience revealed that in many instances women did perform work
on subprojects, but their specific contributions, both in terms of production and time, was difficult
to monitor since the focus remains on monitoring to what extent the entire household completed
the assigned task and thus could be awarded payment.
e) Public works programs need to be adapted to local realities. Experience under the Project
shows that in different areas, particularly in coastal areas-home to some of Yemen's poorest
communities-it was difficult to identify activities for the public works program. This was due
partly to the geographic characteristics of these much flatter areas, where roads are generally
much easier to build and maintain. As a result, there were limited opportunities for the program
to engage in road works. Also, the ownership of agricultural land in these areas is concentrated in
the hands of large landowners, so that agriculture-related investments would tend to benefit
landowners, and not the targeted communities that typically do not own land. Possibilities
identified by the SFD and the Bank include: (i) allowing the program to invest in the
improvement of the private dwelling of the targeted communities (provided they have ownership
of the land); (ii) exploring activities that are not infrastructure related, such as cash for training or
certain care or service activities; (iii) conducting consultations with the affected communities to
jointly identify activities that would be beneficial to them; and (iv) assessing whether other social
protection interventions such as cash transfers might be more suitable in these communities, or
should be introduced to complete subprojects under the program. In any event, the lesson is that
not all geographical areas are similar, or in demand of the same type of works, and for programs
to be effective, they must gradually adapt, based on experience, to maintain relevance to the
diverse needs of different areas.
f) Experience with direct implementation (through communities) shows that it is very
management intensive. In a workshop with all SFD branch offices, several options were
identified to address this issue since it presents a potential constraint for scaling up the program.
These options, which SFD is now considering, include: (i) working more closely with local
authorities and giving them a bigger role in subproject implementation; (ii) using non-
governmental organizations as implementing partners for subprojects that are of a simple
technical nature; (iii) applying community contracting approaches whereby a small number of
households are contracted to complete a particular subproject and the day-to-day planning and
management of work is done by the communities themselves, on the understanding that work and
income would be distributed evenly between households; (iv) building on the experience of the
current direct implementation model to see whether the ratios of current technical and
administrative staff and consultants can be optimized; and (v) using "labor only" contractors who
are commercial contractors but would be hired only to hire and manage recruited labor.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
(b) Cofinanciers/Donors
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
29


﻿Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in Euro '000 equivalent)
Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
. Percentage of
Components                Estimate       Estimate (USD
Appraisal
Estimate(Euro '000) Actual (Euro '000)
Component 1: Workfare assistance and impact evaluation
1.1 Expand workfare assistance for
9,800             10,018              102%
the needy
1.2 Impact evaluation and
component management -          397               407                103%
workfare program
Subtotal Component 1               10,197            10,425               102%
Component 2: Temporary cash assistance for poor households
2.1 Temporary cash transfers       7,140             6,978               98%
2.2 Evaluation and component
management - cash assistance    193                110               57%
program
Subtotal Component 2               7,333              7,088               97%
Total Project Costs  17,530             17,513               100%
(b) Financing
Appraisal  Actual/Latest
Type of Percentage of
Source of Funds                        Estimate     Estimate
Cofinancing                            Appraisal
(USD millions) (USD millions)
Global Food Crisis Response Program
TrstFud23.28                                    23.10        100%
Trust Fund
30


﻿Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Project Results Framework: Outcome and Intermediate Outcome Indicators
Results Indicator                     Target                         Actual
June 30, 2012
Outcome Indicators
PDO: To contribute to the reduction of the negative impact of food price volatility on the poor and vulnerable
in selected areas, and support the protection and building of community assets in poor communities.
1. Number of HHs receiving cash    *  Over 12,000 HHs for         *   17,818 HHs for workfare
transfers                              workfare program              program
*   41,000 HHs for the direct  *   40,441 HHs received four
cash transfers                 cash assistance payments
2. Amount of grant transferred to  *  At least 60% of workfare    *  Euro 9.695m of workfare
beneficiaries                          grant=Euro 5.88 m              grant (74%);
*   98% of cash assistance     *   Euro 6.978m of cash
grant=Euro 7.Om                assistance (98%)
3. Percentage of HHs reporting that                               For workfare:
cash assistance has reduced the food                              95% report funds used for food
consumption gap, decreased debt                 80%               ant pay off debt;
and/or protected productive assets                                59% reported using income for
related to food price increase                                    food and paying off debt only;
36% on food and debt and
others
For Cash Transfers:
96% report funds used for food
and to pay off debt as a first
__________________________priority
4. Number of subprojects                        10102
rehabilitating community assetsu
5. Percentage of HHs confirming that                              95% reported that the project
the subprojects implemented support             80%               was needed;
the protection and building of                                    79% reported that they
community assets                                                  benefitted directly from the
infrastructure built by the
project
31


﻿Intermediate Outcome Indicators
Component 1. Workfare Assistance and Impact Evaluation
Outcome 1: Increase access of the targeted communities to temporary job opportunities
(Indicators 1-3 below)
Outcome 2: Increase number of community assets protected and built
(Indicator 4 below)
1. Number of employment days
created as a result of subproject
implementation
2. Number of paid days per                  66 days/HH                     60 days/HH
participating HH target
3. Percentage of female participation         10-20%                          14.4%
4. Number of subproject fully                   100                            102
financed
Component 2. Temporary Cash Assistance for Poor Households
Outcome 1: Increase coverage of cash transfer benefits to poor households
(Indicators 1-3 below)
Outcome 2: Targeting and benefits payment is according to established methodologies and processes
(Indicators 4-5 below)
1. Number of new HHs enrolled to
receive cash assistance target                 41,000                         40,441
2. Percentage of HIs receiving cash
assistance in flood/conflict/child
trafficking affected areas
80%                    100% in flood and child
trafficking areas
3. Percentage of female headed HIs
receiving cash assistance                     10-20%                          29%
4. Percentage of HIs to which PMT
applied to determine participation             100%                           100%
5. Percentage of households
collecting their benefits on a timely          100%                           99.4%
basis
32


﻿Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)
For economic and financial analysis, it is useful to briefly describe aspects of the ESSN Project relevant
for the analysis. The Project had two components: (1) workfare assistance and impact evaluation (Euro
10.2 million) and (2) temporary cash assistance for poor households (Euro 7.3 million). The first
component supported about 12,000 households in communities affected by the food crisis to help them
mitigate the adverse impact of increased food prices by offering temporary work opportunities The
second component provided temporary cash transfers to about 41,000 poor households not currently
enrolled in the SWF cash transfer program but who have been identified as poor and vulnerable based on
the 2008 SWF household survey and the proxy means test (PMT) targeting mechanism adopted in 2008
by SWF. The beneficiary households, who are located in flood, conflict or child trafficking areas,
received US$20/month/household to help them cope with price pressures for a period of 12 months. At
the project closing, these households were included in the regular SWF cash transfer program by GOY
taking over the financing responsibilities.
With the above background, the economic and financial analysis for Annex 3 relies on the assessment of
the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the project in achieving its development objectives of: (i)
reduction of the negative impact of food price volatility on the poor and vulnerable; and (ii) the protection
and building of assets in poor communities. A 2011 World Food Program survey showed that the level of
food insecurity increased from less than one in three families in 2009 to about 45 percent in 2011. In
other words, the number of people without adequate food has grown to over 10 million people. Economic
benefits are measured by improvements in household wellbeing as a result of the project investments on
creation of temporary job opportunities; on community assets related to agriculture, transportation and
basic infrastructure; and on expansion of cash transfer to the poor and vulnerable. Accordingly, the
analysis focuses on three inter-related issues: (i) the effectiveness of targeting mechanisms; (ii) the
appropriateness of the project portfolio given beneficiaries' needs and demands; and (iii) the cost
effectiveness of the project investments. The analysis is based on data collected during the initiation
(baseline) and completion of the project, as well as other related and corroborative quantitative and
qualitative evaluations available from the Social Fund for Development (SFD) and Social Welfare Fund
(SWF).
Targeting
Properly identifying the poor and most vulnerable households and communities is a key to achieving the
PDO. Under ESSN project, the beneficiaries of the project's cash transfer program (Component 2) were
selected based on the proxy means test (PMT) adopted by the Government of Yemen in 2008. While
several methods to target safety net programs exist, the PMT is generally expected to be among the most
efficient in terms of minimizing the probability of excluding individuals who should be included and
maximizing the amount of the project resources that reach the intended beneficiaries. Instead of relying
on household income and wealth, which are often difficult to measure, the PMT relies on household or
individual characteristics correlated with welfare, such as socio-economic and demographic variables,
housing characteristics, and ownership of durable goods and other assets. These welfare correlates are
easier to collect and verify than direct welfare measures, such as income. Thus, PMT provides a cheaper,
more easily verifiable, and harder to game alternative to means test. A properly designed PMT ensures
that benefits go to those who need them most and that transfers are made in a most efficient and
transparent manner.
The selection of workfare beneficiaries was based on the methodology developed by the Social
Development Fund (SFD), in use by the SFD for over a decade and recognized as cost-effective by
numerous evaluations. The beneficiary communities were identified based on a set of eligibility criteria,
33


﻿including: (i) community falls under the most deprived communities category; (ii) village population size
of at least 300 people; and (iii) at least 70% of the of households are affected by the food price volatility,
as measured by a household survey carried out by SFD. Within the selected communities, participating
households are identified through a self-targeted method whereby wages are set at below the market rate
Similarly, subprojects for the workfare program are selected based on community demand, whereby the
targeted communities build consensus on their priority needs for community assets and infrastructure.
Past evaluations of the participation of community in the development of SFD subprojects showed that
60% to 90% of respondent households concurred that the subprojects implemented focused on their
highest priority.
The survey conducted at the conclusion of the project confirms the findings of the baseline survey that the
project beneficiary households were highly vulnerable. The majority of the ESSN project beneficiaries as
a whole were households whose head was unemployed (77%), without breadwinner (24%), elderly (45%),
and large families with 6 or more members (67%). The main source of income for the majority of the
project beneficiaries was irregular daily wage labor (85%), with household monthly income of less than
5,000 YR (36%), between 5,000-10,000 (33%), and between 10,000-20,000 (22%). Less than a quarter of
the beneficiary households had access to gas as source of energy for cooking and heating.
Table 1: Profile of ESSN Beneficiary Households
Monthly Income
(YR thl per o)   Less than 5,000  5,000-10,000   10,000-20,000  More than 20,000
(YR per month) (%)
Baseline             37             31             20               12
Completion              36             33             22               9
Household Head (%)       Head            Without
Unemployed      Breadwinner    Elderly head   With Disability
Baseline             76             24             45               12
Completion              75             25             58              31
Household Size (%)       Less than 6                 6             7 more than 7
Baseline             32             14             14               40
Completion              33             16             10              42
Source of Income (%)    Irregular Daily
Wage            Trading        Livestock      Other
Baseline             89              1              7                3
Completion              85              1              8               6
Main Source of Energy
(%)                      Gas             Kerosene       Wood/Manure   other
Baseline             27             34             32                7
Completion              24             40             32               4
The ESSN project has targeted households and communities with very poor physical infrastructure and
access to social services, such as healthcare and education. Only one in ten households reported having
any health insurance. One in three households had access to electricity and public water network. Access
to sanitation and sewage is more limited among the beneficiary households (15 percent).
34


﻿Table 2: Housing Conditions of ESSN Beneficiaries
Baseline   Completion
Access to Electricity (%, yes)                 37           33
Access to Public Water Network (%, yes)        36           34
Access to Sewage Facility (%, yes)             23           15
Dwelling Floor is Mud (%, yes)                 77           78
Appropriateness of the Project Portfolio
Given the profile of the beneficiary households and communities they live in, the project has
appropriately focused on income generation and community asset building activities. From the baseline
survey, there was clear evidence that the per capita consumption of households selected as project
beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries was different, with that of the former groups being lower than that of
the latter. The ESSN project, by identifying the poorest households in poorest communities, reflected the
urgent needs of vulnerable households that likely suffered from the food, fuel and financial crisis.
Under Component 1, the ESSN provided workfare assistance for the needy, covering about 12,000 poor
and vulnerable households in communities most affected by the food crisis. The ESSN workfare program
provided a quick transfer to the poor and vulnerable households to allow them to reduce the consumption
gap, while rehabilitating damaged economic and social infrastructure and building community assets.
The types of subprojects implemented included soil protection, agricultural terraces rehabilitation, water
harvesting schemes, maintenance and improvement of local feeder roads, streets pavement and other
types of labor-intensive works based on the demands and priority needs of each community.
Under Component 2, the project provided temporary cash transfers to around 40,441 poor households that
were not receiving any cash assistance from the SWF. The beneficiaries were selected from districts were
classified by GOY as those most vulnerable and most severely affected by drought, flood, armed conflict,
and even child trafficking. As a consequence of the chosen targeting strategy, areas with higher poverty
incidence received higher allocations. The program has thus rightly aimed at reducing the consumption
gap of the poor and most vulnerable households.
Effectiveness of the Project Investments
Here the economic analysis looks at how effective the project investments have been in achieving their
development objectives of (i) reducing the negative impact of food price volatility on the poor and
vulnerable; and (ii) protecting and building assets of poor communities. The assessment here relies on the
qualitative and quantitative survey conducted for baseline and at the completion of the project. The
questions we ask are: have the project interventions improved the frequency of meals, compared to before
the interventions? Has the dietary diversity of the beneficiary households improved? Do the beneficiary
households report the cash transfer and income earned from the temporary employment opportunities
proceeds reduced their consumption gaps? Has the community infrastructure improved and addressed the
community needs? Has poverty incidence, gap and severity declined among the beneficiary households?
With regard to the project's investment in creation of employment opportunities, our economic analysis
relies on an independent international expert evaluation of the labor intensive program (LIP) of SFD
(Christian and Yeslam, 2012). The evaluation has been based on a panel household survey data collected
before and after the intervention in randomly selected communities to examine the program's
effectiveness in improving economic outcomes. During 2010-2011, while the assessment shows that most
35


﻿welfare indicators worsened in all communities participating in the evaluation due to the political and
economic crisis, treatment communities fared better than control communities. The benefits were
progressive overall, with more benefits going to households whose scores on a proxy means test on
baseline were associated with greater probability of poverty. The program also caused a significant
increase in the probability of female employment.
About 95% of program participants indicated that the bulk of the money earned from the program was
used to buy food and to pay off debt. The evaluation found statistically significant program effects on
food consumption, debt repayment, and durable goods ownership. On average, households in treatment
communities had increased per capita calorie consumption of staple foods relative to control of
approximately 300 calories per day, and were less likely to self-report that adults were forced to skip
meals due to food shortage. Among indebted households, households in treatment communities were able
to pay off more debt, by 30,000 ($141) riyals on average. Households in treatment communities also had
less decrease in the value of durable goods owned in most specifications. These findings suggest that the
labor intensive works program played a role in cushioning targeted communities from the economic
shock of 2010-2011, averting possible longer term consequences related to selling off assets and
increased debt. However, some important indicators did not show significant improvement as the result of
project investments, including animal asset ownership, consumption of higher value food items, and
consumption of non-durable goods.
When asked about their perception of the program's effect on community assets, 95% of respondents
reported that the project was needed by the community and 79% of households reported that they
benefited directly from the infrastructure built by the project. However, the assessment does not show
significant decline in time spent fetching water or traveling to the nearest market.
With regard to benefit incidence and poverty impact of the cash transfer and the LIP, the economic
analysis relies on simulations using the 2005-06 household survey data and the monetary value of the
cash transfer and the income earned from the employment opportunities. The poverty impact is measured
by the change in poverty incidence, gap and severity among participating households before and after
implementation of the ESSN program. The benefit incidence analysis is focused on how the ESSN
program channeled the benefits to the poor. What share of the ESSN program resources went to the poor?
How generous is the ESSN program? What is the cost-benefit ratio of the ESSN program? These two
analyses are linked since poverty impact is a function of the program's targeting of the poor, coverage,
and generosity. For this exercise, the poverty line as estimated based on the 2005-06 survey and adjusted
for inflation is used. Benefit incidence and generosity indicators were presented for the poorest four
deciles of household per capita consumption.
The analysis shows that the ESSN program as a whole reached about 4.6% of the Yemeni population, and
12.6% of poorest 10% of the population. The program was able to allocate about 30.9% of benefits to
people classified among poorest 10% of the population, 47% among poorest 20%, and 74% among
poorest 40% population. For the poorest 10% population, ESSN benefit size represented about 13% of
household per capita consumption. The cost-benefit ratio that measures poverty gap reduction obtained
due to the transfer is estimated at 0.72 using the national poverty line, meaning that for each El spent in
the program, E 0.72 had gone to reduction of the national poverty gap. Given the scale of ESSN program,
the impact on overall national poverty incidence and gap is small, but substantial when the beneficiaries
are looked at more specifically. The results suggest that the ESSN project was quite successful in
mitigating poverty.
36


﻿Table 4: Benefit Incidence and Poverty Impact of ESSN Project
Total            4.6%
Bottom 10%         12.6%
Benefit Incidence (share of ESSN program        Bottom 10%         30.9%
resources going to different groups)          Bottom 10-20%        15.9%
Bottom 20-30%       15.4%
Bottom 30-40%       11.5%
Bottom 40%         73.6%
Generosity (as share of household consumption)  Bottom 10%        12.8%
Bottom 10-20%        8.7%
Bottom 20-30%        7.2%
Bottom 30-40%        5.8%
Impact on poverty                            Poverty Headcount    -0.8%
Poverty Gap        -1.9%
Cost-Benefit ratio (reduction in poverty gap in E per i ESSN spending)  0.72
37


﻿Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
Responsibility/
Names                          Title                Unit
Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Afrah Alawi Al-Ahmadi        Sr. Human Development Specialist MNCYE Task Team Leader
Shivendra Kumar              Consultant                       MNAPR Procurement
Moad M. Alrubaidi            Financial Management Specialist  MNACS Financial Management
Mira Hong                    Operations Officer               MNSHD Operational Support
Maha Assabalani              Team Assistant                   MNCYE Administrative Support
Philippe George Pereira Guimaraes                                      Social Protection
Sr. Social Protection Economist  HDNSP
'Leite                                                                 Economist
Harsha Thirumurthy           Young Professional                 YPP    Economist
Marget Davis                 Consultant                                Social Development
Banumathi Setler             Environment Specialist           MNSEN Environment Specialist
Saleh Qasem Al-Manary        Financial Management Analyst    MNAFM Financial Management
,Akram Abd El-Aziz Hussein El-
Sorag A  ESr. Financial Management Specialist                MNACS Financial Management
Shorbagi
Supervision/ICR
Samira Al-Harithi            Procurement Analyst              MNAPR Procurement
Salch Qasem Al-Manary        Financial Management Analyst    MNAFM      inancial Management
Moad M. Alrubaidi            Financial Management Specialist  MNAFM Financial Management
Akram Abd El-Aziz Hussein El- Sr Financial Management
Shorbagi                     Specialist
MrHogOperations Officer
'Mira Hong                   OprtosOfcrMNSSP Task Team Leader
ShienraKuarConsultant                                 MNAPR Procurement
Shivendra Kumar             Cosltn
Safa'a Abdullah Al-Sharif    Program Assistant                MNCYE Administrative Support
Phillippe George Pereira                                               Social Protection
.'EconomistHDS
Guimaraes Leite                                                         conomist
Harsha Thirumurthy           Young Professional                 YPP   Economist
Lire Ersado                  Sr. EconomistMNSSP Sr. Economist
Suzana de Campos Abbott      ICR Primary Author               MNSHDICR
Amy ChminOperations Analyst
AyChampion                 OprtosAaytMNSHD Operational Support
Rania Atieh                  Consultant                       MNSHD     perational Support
A fifa Alia Achsien         'Sr. Program Assistant            MNSHD Administrative/
Operational Support
38


﻿(b) Staff Time and Cost
Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands (including
No. of staff weeks
travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY10                                    14.5                     59.0
Total:          14.5                    59.0
Supervision/ICR
FY10                                    14.3                    108.6
FY11                                    14.5                    118.1
FY12                                     8.6                     57.4
FY13                                     3.0                     15.0
Total:         40.4                    299.1
39


﻿Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(ifany)
NA.
40


﻿Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(ifany)
NA.
41


﻿Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
The project had two parallel implementation arrangements: one for the implementation of Component 1,
under the responsibility of the Social Fund for Development (SFD); and the other for the implementation
of Component 2, under the responsibility of the Social Welfare Fund (SWF).
SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT
The SFD was established as an autonomous State organization under the Council of Ministers in 1997 by
Law 10 of that year. The Prime Minister is the Chairman of its Board of Directors. SFD has since its
establishment, with extensive and expanding support from the government and the donor community,
become a large and active institution of State, with operations all over the country but with priority given
to the poorer communities and districts in each governorate, in several sectors including education, health,
water and environment, village access roads, cultural heritage, small and micro enterprise (SME)
development, social protection, training, and capacity-building of partner-institutions.
SFD's main development goal is to improve access to basic social and economic services among
Yemen's low-income population, while providing an example of an effective, efficient, transparent
institution by refining approaches to service delivery, supporting local authorities and empowering
communities. The SFD achieves its goals through four main programs as follows:
1) Community development initiatives facilitate access to basic social and economic services - mainly in
rural areas deprived of such services, as well as some urban areas.
2) Capacity building of local partners, along with efforts to support capacities and organize communities,
government agencies, and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs).
3) Small and Microenterprise Development projects enhance small and microfinance services by
supporting intermediaries such as NGOs and financing institutions, and develop business sector to
provide nonfinancial services for small entrepreneurs.
4) Labor-intensive works focusing on job creation to temporarily absorb unskilled workers.
Since establishment, SFD had run four phases of operations during 1997-2000, 2001-2003, 2004-2010,
and 2011-2015 with more than 13,000 approved subprojects costing more than US$1.4 billion till the end
of June 2012 all over Yemen's governorates (75 percent of projects were completed) with a cost of $861
million for all phases.
COMPONENT 1: WORKFARE ASSISTANCE AND IMPACT EVALUATION (Euro 10.197
million).
The workfare program initiated under the initial GFRP will be expanded to reach an additional of 12,000-
16,000 households within the communities most seriously affected by the food crisis. Cash will be
provided to help mitigate the impact of increased food prices by offering temporary work opportunities
through a well-tested community-targeting mechanism. The component is expected to create temporary
work opportunities of around 800,000 person days in poor communities that have suffered from the food
crises, drought and floods. Each participating household will be given the opportunity to work for a
period of 9 to 12 months and will receive a total of US$400 to US$600, depending on the size of the
household. This Component was implemented by the SFD and it has the following sub-components:
42


﻿Targeting Criteria. The SFD expanded the existing workfare assistance program on the basis of a creative
targeting criteria that made use of administrative data (service and poverty levels, number of community
inhabitants, etc.), demand for workfare assistance by food crisis affected communities (more than 70
percent), as well as other social assistance programs in the area. As a last step to determine the eligibility
for workfare assistance, field verification was carried out using a community participation approach that
aimed at raising the awareness of targeted communities; verifying the soundness of the selection;
documenting real evidence reflecting the level of suffering due to draught and the food crisis; ensuring the
participation of women; determining the appropriate and adequate interventions; and recording data
required by the program.
Project Selection Criteria. In selecting projects to be carried out through the workfare assistance program,
SFD made use of the lessons learnt through its own experience in implementing the Intensive LIWP, and
from similar experiences in other countries. As such, high quality projects with high labor intensity and
simple technology were selected. The criteria used are as follows: at least 50 percent labor force
component; the maximum implementation duration is five months; utilization of simple technology based
on the approval of the community and the local need; impact of the project on the community; the project
should not require third party endorsement; it should not be one of the projects that were studied or
developed by the other SFD programs or units; and, it should not have any environmental impact.
Project Management. SFD directly supervised the implementation of these projects, monitored progress
rate, quality of work and the achievement of their intended purposes. The LIWP was managed in the field
through the project officers at the branch offices with the assistance the community officers who track the
course of the project work phases in the different areas. The SFD branch office contracted consultant
engineers to conduct technical analysis for the projects for each area, supervise implementation and
distribute work between beneficiary-households consistent with the food need gap specified in the
household cards distributed in advance. The engineer appoints one of the resident technicians at the
project location to follow up on the implementation's technical aspects. An accountant is also contracted
to follow up on the accounting issues at the branch level and to supervise the field accountants who, along
with the resident technician (engineer representative) calculates the workers' weekly accrued wages after
calculating the amount of performed work.
Co-ordination with Local Council and Other Entities. SFD coordinated with local authorities and other
entities to implement the workfare assistance projects such as local Reconstruction Funds and Agriculture
Offices especially to determine areas that should be included in SFD Annual Plan.
Achievements
- While the workfare assistance program was meant to expand SFD's LIWP to reach an additional of
12,000-16,000 households within the communities most seriously affected by the food crisis; 17,818
households were reached.
- The component was expected to support the implementation of over 100 community subprojects
selected based on a set of criteria; instead, a total of 102 community subprojects were implemented
from the grant costing about US$15 million
- It was expected to create temporary work opportunities of around 800,000 person days in poor
communities that have suffered from the food crises, drought and floods; 964,211 workdays were
created instead, out of which 14.4 percent went to female workers (against original target of 10 to 20
percent).
- Average Amount of workfare assistance per family was US$ 544; the original target was US$400-
US$600.
43


﻿- Number of community assets created or rehabilitated was 224.
- Cost of delivering Grant to beneficiaries was 6.5 percent; cost of material 15 percent.
- 60 workdays were created per HH; compared to a target of 66 due to the increase in demand.
- Number of communities targeted reached 136 communities, which is higher than originally planned
target of 100.
- The average length of time HHs receive cash was 4-6 months
LIWP IMPACT EVALUATION9
Introduction
The Labor Intensive Public Works Program (LIWP) in Yemen transfers funds to poor rural households by
employing community members in local public works projects.  This evaluation uses a panel of
household surveys collected before and after the intervention in randomly selected communities to
examine the program's effectiveness in improving economic outcomes. Due to the timing of the
evaluation during the 2010-2011 political and economic crises, economic indicators worsened for all
communities in the sample, but treatment communities fared better than control communities in some
measurable ways. The baseline survey was conducted in April-May, 2010, and it was followed by an ex-
post survey during the period of November-December 2011.
The evaluation team uses a difference in differences approach to test for the causal effect of the LIWP
program on various outcomes at the community level. The total benefit of the program to individual
participating households is greater than suggested by this community level analysis, as households in
treatment communities that had low or no participation in the program are included in calculating the
program effect. Because participation level is endogenous, we are unable to control for variation in
treatment by household.
Program Participation
In the survey sample, 74% of households in treatment communities had at least one member participating
in LIWP.
There was a wide range in the level of income that these households received from the program, with
29% of households receiving 50,000 riyals ($235) or less, and 5% of households receiving more than
300,000 riyals ($1415). This variation is a result of several factors. First, at the household level, LIWP
was designed to be self targeting by setting a wage lower than the prevailing unskilled wage in the area,
but due to the economic crisis, laborers didn't find enough opportunities to work in, resulting in LIWP
employment being more attractive than originally designed. Secondly, there was originally an intention to
limit households to a maximum number of work days, but this was not enforced during implementation.
Finally, program wages were set by piece rate, resulting in higher wages per day for workers involved in
more skill intensive tasks, or who worked longer hours. Correspondingly, the number of men in the
family was the strongest predictor of program participation and total benefits received.
9 Summary of LIWP Quantitative Evaluation's Preliminary Findings
44


﻿In spite of this variation, LIWP benefits were progressive overall, with more benefits going to households
whose scores on a proxy means test on baseline were associated with greater probability of poverty.
Employment Generation
There is evidence that the LIWP program increased the total number of days worked per household by
approximately 50 days per year. More clearly, the data show that the program increased average wages
and shifted the structure of the workforce away from work in the lowest paid sectors. The program also
caused a significant increase in the probability of female employment.
Program Effects on Food and Livelihood Outcomes
In response to direct questions, 95% of program participants indicated that funds from the program were
used to buy food and pay off debt. 59% of households reported using income from the project for food
and paying off debt only, while an additional 36% spent on food and debt as well as other types of
consumption.
We find statistically significant program effects on food consumption, debt repayment, and durable goods
ownership. On average, households in treatment communities had increased per capita calorie
consumption of staple foods relative to control of approximately 300 calories per day, and were less likely
to self-report that adults were forced to skip meals due to food shortage. Among indebted households,
households in treatment communities were able to pay off more debt, by 30,000 ($141) riyals on average.
Households in treatment communities also had less decrease in the value of durable goods owned in most
specifications.
These findings suggest that the LIW Program played a role in cushioning targeted communities from the
economic shock of 2010-2011, averting possible longer term consequences related to selling off assets
and increased debt. Economic indicators in which we do not find a significant treatment effect include
animal asset ownership, consumption of higher value food items, and consumption of non-durables such
as clothing and household goods.
Program Effects on Community Assets
It is too soon to measure the long-term food security effects of local public goods constructed under the
program. When asked directly about their perception of the program effect on community assets, 95% of
respondents reported that the project was needed by the community and 79% of households reported that
they benefitted directly from the infrastructure built by the project.
VALUE FOR MONEYo
To assess the extent in which Value for Money (VFM) has been achieved in the use of EU and DFID
funds, and to lay foundation for developing a VFM strategy that will be embedded within the LIWP
Project Cycle. The assessment will be based on the DFID's Approach to VFM namely maximizing
economy, efficiency and effectiveness hence impacts in the use of the grants for each intervention. The
design of the program is based on several explicit assumptions on the expected outcomes and impacts,
which have so far been assessed based on strength of evidence during project implementations and
1 Value for Money study for DFID and EU Grants for SFD LIWP, Nasra Daaer (Consultant)
45


﻿internal evaluations conducted by the LIWP and M&E unit. The final outcomes and impacts of the
program will be ascertained after completion of the Impact Evaluation Study currently being undertaken.
The Paper is divided into two parts, Part A consists an overall Analysis of VFM for the Grant as a whole,
including institutional capacity of the unit in implementing the program, while Part B will look into detail
VFM at the levels of interventions and their impact on households. To ascertain an overall picture of the
realistic extent to which VFM has been achieved, several indirect benefits/impacts accrued are also
analyzed that have not been explicitly included in the Monitoring Framework.
Part A
Analysis of Use of European Union Grant Funds as of June 30, 2012
Indicator                    Original / Planned            Achieved        %
Transfer of funds/wages to                                         9,695,193      74%
beneficiaries
Cost of materials                                                  1,874,131      14%
E10.425 million (equivalent to approx
Cost of delivery"               US$13.2 million using exchange rate
of 1.36)                            1,301,271      9.9%
SFD O/C                                                            299,854        2.1%
Total                                                              13,170,449     100
As originally envisaged, at least 60% of funds will be transferred to beneficiaries as wages. The program
achieved 70% surpassing the target by 1712%, Cost of inputs namely material used and human resources or
cost of delivering the grant to households reached 15% and 6.5% respectively, indicating that use of
grant was conducted in an efficient manner with economy being the essence thus a high cost effectiveness.
Accordingly, it can be stated undoubtedly, that as far as costs are concerned a High VFM has been
achieved in the use of the Grant as a whole.
The additional Indirect Benefits at the Institutional Level that have been accrued while managing the
funds to which the DFID Grant and EU has contributed in a direct manner, could also be considered in
augmenting the degree in which VFM of the Program has had. The positive aspects at the institutional
level include further developing/ fine tuning procedures, establishing/upgrading the MIS, improving on
monitoring and data collection tools pertaining to the LIWP, improved targeting mechanisms, capacity
building of staff and consultants in all aspects of managing LIW, improving management capacity at head
office and branches, intense training of consultants and creating a Data-Base/ large pool (over 4000 have
been trained) are added value to the grant.
11 Cost of delivering wages to workers including accountants, consultants, reviewers, etc.
12 (70-60)/60
46


﻿Impacts of these indirect outcomes are cornerstone in the sustainability of the LIWP to enable it to expand
while at the same time have the ability to absorb additional multi donor funding in the near future.
Enhancing the Institutional Capacity of the program and its efficiency to handle larger finances can be
regarded as an important outcome with significant impacts for the country as a whole in addressing issue
of Food-Security.
The capacity of the LIWP to have managed and disburse funds from both the DFID and the EU totaling to
approximately US$ 25 million within a short span, in spite of the huge challenges faced during the 2011
crisis could be regarded as an important achievement in terms of efficiency and effectiveness of the LIWP,
to which the DFID and EU Grant has contributed.
As the concept for VFM, the need to ensure it is embedded within procedures and a conscious behavior
among all players was recently introduced relatively, up front consciousness on VFM for each decision
taken was not explicit, but by virtue of economical and efficient practices, knowledge of what needs to be
achieved / expected outcomes, well established implementing procedures, transparency in delivering and
robust monitoring of activities in place, has led to achievement of high VFM not only DFID Grant, but
similar results for the EU funds as well. The program proved to be an effective instrument for targeting
poor households, and implementing cash for work that can continue to be used by the International
Community for channeling aid to those communities in dire need.
Part B
Analysis of VFM in LIWP Interventions
1. Analysis of Outputs
Indicator               Original Target   Actual Achieved         Remarks
Output 1. Increased number of short-term employment opportunities
Indicator               Original Target  Achieved as of June      Remarks
30, 2012
1. No. of employment days created   800,000         964,211               Expected to exceed
1,000,000
2. No. of HHs benefiting from workfare  12,000 to 16,000  17,818          Exceeded the planned
assistance                       HHs                                  figure
3. Average Amount of workfare       US$400-US$600    US$ 544
assistance per family
4. No. of females benefitting from   10-20%          14.4%
workfare assistance
Output 2. Improved or rehabilitation of community livelihood assets.
1. No. of Community Assets created /                 224
rehabilitated
47


﻿2. Other Relevant Output Indicators for DFID and EU Grant
Indicator                 Actual Achieved                  Remarks
Amount of Grant as wages transferred to
beneficiaries. (At least 60% of cost to be  70%           17% (more than target)
used for wages)
Cost of Inputs                         6.5%
1. Cost of delivering Grant to                        Relatively low considering remoteness,
beneficiaries                                      difficult access, rough terrain, security issues
2. Cost of Material                15%
18.6% below Av     Rate is average for both skilled and unskilled
Wage levels 10-20% below market rates  daily wage reached  labor (ratio approx 10:90), while average
US$8.3              market rate is around US$10.2
Higher than originally planned ( Target for
No. of Conmmunities Targeted           136                E   s10
EU is 100)
At least 50% of HHs actively participated in
Av No of HHs Participation             3.6 persons per HH  the Program, indication of positive response
and willingness
66 workdays per HH                    60 days             Less than target due to increase in No. of HHs
HHs had cash in hand for a period of 4-6
Av length of time HHs receive cash    4-6 months          monts a   in duringathero   ons
months mainly during the drought seasons
In general outputs achieved are mostly higher than the original targets, or within acceptable limits. By
achieving results that were aimed at proves that the intervention logic and assumptions made were correct
from the outset, thus return on investments is high and hence VFM.
3. Analysis of Outcome Indicators /Impacts
Outcome Indicators are determined based on expected outcomes and impacts of the interventions. They
include explicit assumptions that significant improvements will take place during and after completion of
community infrastructure/assets. The extent to which the actual outcomes have been achieved will be
confirmed after the impact evaluation study is completed. Based on strength of evidence reported by the
LIWP mainly through internal impact evaluations conducted has shown significant level of achievement
of outcomes. Several additional impacts not included in the monitoring framework are also analyzed in
order to have a broader understanding of VFM that such programs could achieve.
48


﻿Indicator                                    Actual Achieved              Source
Target
95% indicated that funds used for
No. of HH reporting that cash assistance has          food and pay off debt.         Impact
reduced the food consumption gap, decreased  At least                                evaluation
debt, and/or protected productive assets  80%         59% r   d sing o  e or      preliminary
related to food price increase                                                       findings
36% on food and debt & others
95% reported that the project was
Percentage of HH confirming that the     At least    needed                          Impact
subprojects implemented support the      80%          79% reported that they benefitted  Evaluation
protection and building of community assets.          directly from the infrastructure  findings
built by the project.
Other outcomes not included in monitoring framework that equally have important impacts on
sustainability of investments made are listed below. Again these have not been measured in an explicit
manner, yet it could be expected based on logic of interventions selected that there would be positive
outcomes and impacts.
Outcomes                                            Impact
Increase in Agricultural Produce  With completion of 529 Ha of protected agriculture land increase in agricultural
produce would be expected (unless in the unfortunate event of floods or severe
drought), hence long term improvement of food security and livelihood of poor
communities,
Environmental Improvements     Terrace rehabilitation, access to potable water through improved wells and
water harvesting structures, better access through rural roads and stone paving
should result in positive environmental impacts
Sustainability of the Program  Success of the program leading to its continuity will benefit Yemeni rural poor
societies in dire need.
Increased capacity of staff &  Lead to implementing future funding in an economical and efficient manner
consultants                   hence improving VFM.
Improved Targeting of Poor     Improved ability of the Program to target poorest communities for current phase
Households                     (reached 100% for Phase 2 ) and in future phases.
Sustainability of investments  Community Assets created are so far sustainable through communities
made
Skills gained by labor        Qualifies them for future job opportunities within and outside of their
communities
Increased opportunities for   Increased income will encourage parents to spend on education result in better
children to enroll in         job opportunities, improved health
schools/access to health facilities
49


﻿New Self Initiatives            Community undertaking self initiatives using local resources to create new
community assets that would further improve their livelihood. The program
awareness campaigns / training focuses on revitalizing traditional practices of
communities undertaking self initiatives. Several communities in Ibb, Mukalla,
and Hajja implemented in parallel with LIWP interventions, 15 initiatives such
as soil conservation, improving access roads, flood protection, rain water
harvesting.. .etc. Most significant was in Taiz were more than 15 self initiatives
were implemented with 1400 men & women as volunteers. Encourage
communities to continue with these practices.
New Assets Created              Use of income for purchasing productive assets such as sewing machines,
livestock, beekeeping, agriculture tools, improvements in houses expect to
income generating activities
Capacity building of            Increased awareness on need for development, recognition of community needs
Communities during project      and priorities, improved community cohesion through ability to work together,
implementation                  economic empowerment, ability of communities to pursue wider development
agenda through other sources of finance. Due to success of LIWP implementing
mechanisms, some communities requested other funding agencies to use
similar mechanisms
Capacity building of Local      Conducting workshops to increase awareness of LA in the program structure,
Authorities (LA)                targeting mechanisms and selection of poorest communities, creates a positive
rapport, enhances LA involvement, facilitates implementation, normalize
dispute if any,
4. Analysis of VFM (By type of intervention)
Percentage   Percentage
Type of Intervention     of           of                            Level of VFM
Wage      Investments
Inputs
Terrace               80-100%     58%          Very High as the inputs are extremely low while the expected
Rehabilitation & Soil                          outcomes are High. These interventions constitute 63% of total
Conservation                                   investments.
Irrigation canals,
flood protection of
agriculture land
Rehab of Water wells  80%         5%
Rain Water            70%         16%          Although inputs are relatively higher, yet the expected
Harvesting                                     outcomes have high impact on community livelihood in terms
70 %        21%          of improved environment, better access to markets, health
Rural Roads + stone                            facilities, schools increased in availability of water for HHs
paving                                         use, animal and agriculture.
100%
50


﻿5. Impact of outcomes on Women & Children especially girls
Women & children in rural areas are probably the most adversely affected by the poor living conditions,
lack of food and basic services, hence improvements brought in by the LIWP in terms of income and
community assets created are expected to mitigate these adversities in a significant manner. Households
headed by women being the hardest hit, are among those targeted by the program and make up for most
of the female participation whereby increase in their income has enabled them to possess new assets for
income generation activities such as sewing machines, livestock and beekeeping. Increased participation
and income should result in empowerment of women, who, in the future will play a proactive role in
communities' development agenda.
Providing water in rural areas is mainly the responsibility of women & children especially girls,
availability of water within the vicinity of the communities will greatly reduce the burden of fetching
water from distant places on a daily basis. Similarly, rural roads will facilitate access to health and
education facilities.
Furthermore, awareness/training conducted by the Program on nutrition and dangers of Qat consumption
has to a certain degree changed attitudes and traditions on their perception of diet habits such as the
importance of introducing varieties such as vegetables and fruits to improve nutrition especially for
women and children. In many cases locally grown vegetables or fruits were not consumed due to lack of
knowledge and importance of their nutrition value. Awareness and training were provided to all
communities participated in the program. In addition, committees were formed from the locals in every
community to continue the outreach during and after the program.
To sum up the extent in which the program Objectives have been achieved, it can be concluded based on
strength of evidence, monitoring data and internal evaluations for both the outputs and outcomes there
have been significant improvements in the livelihood of the targeted poor communities. Level of
achievement of output indicators surpassed the targets in most cases; while similarly, the outcome
indicators have met the set targets. The fact that the program was able to target almost 100% the poorest
communities no leakage of funds to the better of took place. Thus there has been high level of
effectiveness in use of Grant funds.
Moreover, the grant has contributed to building/improving the institutional capacity of the program in
managing implementation in an economical and efficient manner.
We could therefore conclude that Economy, Efficiency and Effectiveness, the three E's fundamental for
achieving a High VFM have materialized in utilization of Grant Funds. The desired impacts highly likely
to be achieved will be further confirmed by the independent Impact Evaluation Study.
SOCIAL WELFARE FUND
COMPONENT 2: TEMPORARY CASH ASSISTANCE FOR POOR HOUSEHOLDS
(EURO 7.303 MILLION)
This Component was implemented by the SWF and it has the following sub-components:
A. Achievements
- This sub-component provided temporary cash assistance grants to about 40,441 eligible poor
households in selected areas; 41,000 eligible poor households were originally targeted.
- A total budget of Euro 6.978 million was spent; a total budget of Euro 7.140 million was originally
planned to be spent.
51


﻿- The targeted households were not enrolled in the SWF program and have been identified through 2008
SWF household survey and the Proxy Means Test (PMT) as follows: Hajjah: 27,021; Hudeidah: 7,477;
Hadramoot- Mukalla: 1,976; Al-Mahweet: 2,461; Al-Mahara: 44; Hadramoot- Sayoon: 1,462.
- The beneficiary households were located in flood and child trafficking areas and each has received US$
20/month to help them cope with price pressures over 12 months. The amount of the cash assistance to
each household was decided in view of the below-described scale:
Number of          Monthly         Quarterly
Category       Households          Payment         Payment
Members             (YR)            (YR)
1               1                2,000           6,000
2               2                2,400           7,200
3               3                2,800           8,400
4               4                3,200           9,600
5               5                3,600          10,800
6        6 persons or more       4,000          12,000
B. Lessons learned
- At the design stage, the ESSNP has taken the previous experience of the SWF into consideration.
The ESSN project is considered to be an ideal project with straightforward and smooth objectives
and indicators.
- Implementation of the ESSN project has contributed to strengthening the SWF targeting process
through applying the PMT for the selection of the ESSN beneficiaries/households.
- The involvement of the CSO's in the disbursement of the first payment to the ESSN beneficiaries
is considered to be as one of the most important lessons learned from the ESSN project and a great
step toward utilizing the capacities of the CSO's in communicating with the target beneficiaries.
The SWF is keen on expanding this experience and on developing a communication strategy that
identifies the expected role by the CSO's.
- The directors of the SWF branches were consulted and have played an outstanding role during the
preparation and design stages of the ESSN project; they have demonstrated a comprehensive
awareness of the purpose and the objectives and contributed to the successful implementation of
the project.
- The role of the directors of the SWF Branches was essential in the facilitation, follow up and
monitoring the disbursement process of all (four) payments to the ESSN beneficiaries.
- The design and the utilization of the ESSN financial system provided the SWF with great practical
experience to be used for the other SWF projects.
- The ESSN project contributed to the strengthening of SWF's institutional and management
capacities; most significantly in relation to leadership, communicating with the donor community,
project designing and implementation, supervision, monitoring & evaluation and regular reporting
of progress.
52


﻿EVALUATION AND COMPONENT MANAGEMENT - CASH ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
(EURO 0.163 MILLION)
This sub-component has financed the contract of an external consultancy firm (EMCC) to carry out the
evaluation of the temporary cash assistance program to address the targeting, operational processes and
results of the program at the household level. It has also financed the salary of a local Financial
Management Specialist to support the SWF Finance Department to meet project fiduciary requirements,
the fee for the external auditor as well as travel cost for SWF staff for field follow up and supervision
visits with a total budget of Euro 0.110 million. ESSN conducted a baselines survey with a sample of
2,903 households from a pool of 91,000 households (41,000 ESSN beneficiaries and 50,000 non
beneficiaries) who applied for SWF cash assistance from six governorates. The main findings are that
more than 90 percent of SWF applicants from six governorates are extreme poor. Therefore, targeting
extreme poor is expected to generate a large exclusion error. For example, the ESSN targeted 41,000
households, and about 82-85,000 applicants among 91,000 households are extreme poor leading to 50-52
percent exclusion error. The former SWF targeting strategy (categorical approach) would lead to 7-10
percent inclusion error if selection of 41,000 beneficiaries were 100 percent random. However,
simulations show that when selection is not perfectly random, higher weights of inclusion occur for some
households due to particular interest. For example, due to political interest, which is often the case,
inclusion errors would be much higher, around 20 percent.
For the ESSN intended population of beneficiaries, the extreme poor among the households selected as
ESSN beneficiaries (1,215), 96 percent are indeed extreme poor, resulting in 4 percent inclusion error. If
the current PMT targeting strategy is applied, 57 percent of the current extreme poor households (2,709)
would not be selected, resulting in 57 percent exclusion error. For the SWF cash transfer intended
population, the poor (such measuring was done to address whether the current SWF cash transfer would
target the poor as planned) among the households that would be selected by the PMT to be in the SWF
cash transfer program (2,470), 97 percent are indeed poor, resulting in 3 percent inclusion error.
EMCC also was carried out a follow up survey, the results of which were not completed at the time of the
ICR preparation.
The SWF M&E Department carried out supervision field visits to some of the target households in with
the objective to verify and assess the process and client satisfaction concerning the disbursement of the
first payment: 99 percent reported satisfaction with the cashiers' performance; 97 percent reported
satisfaction of the specified payment centers; 99.6 percent confirmed the availability of post office in the
specified times; 99.5 percent reported receipt of the total amount of payment; 99.7 percent confirmed the
post office commitment to payment period.
Analysis of Component 2 Results Indicators
Number ofNew Households Enrolled to Receive Cash Assistance:
- A key objective of component 2 is to enroll 41,000 new house holds to receive cash assistance for one
year period. The actual number of the new households enrolled to receive cash assistance is 40,441.
Each of these households has received US$ 20/month to help them cope with price pressures over 12
months; they have received the Ist, 2nd 3rd and 4th payments of the cash assistance. The files of the
remaining 559 beneficiaries were not completed on time; the photos of the beneficiaries were not
available.
Percentage ofHouseholds Receiving Cash Assistance in Flood/ Conflict/ Child Trafficking Affected Areas:
- A key objective of component 2 is to enroll 80 percent of households receiving cash assistance in flood/
conflict/child trafficking affected areas. Actually, all the households from Mukalla, Sayoon and Al-
53


﻿Mahara Governorates are selected from flood affected districts and all the households from Hudeidah,
Hajja and Al-Mahweet Governorates are selected from child trafficking affected districts. In other
words, all the 40,441 households who have received cash assistance are enrolled in flood and child
trafficking affected areas.
Percentage ofFemale Headed Households Receiving Cash Assistance:
- A key objective of component 2 is to enroll 10-20 percent of female headed households to receive cash
assistance; 11,444 of the households who have received cash assistance are headed by female.
Percentage ofHouseholds to which PMT Applied to Determine Participation:
- A key objective of component 2 is to enroll 100 percent of households to which PMT applied to
determine participation. Actually, all the 40,441 households who have received cash assistance are
selected by PMT.
Percentage ofHouseholds Collecting Their Benefits on a Timely Basis:
- A key objective of component 2 is 100 percent of households collect their benefits on a timely basis; an
average of 40,199 households has collected their 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th payments on a timely basis as
follows (the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th payments were suspended and the beneficiaries were not able to collect
these payments according to schedule):
*  40,007 out of 40,441 beneficiaries have collected their 1st payment within one month period=
98.92 %.
* 40,441 out of 40,441 beneficiaries have collected their 2nd payment within one month period=
100 %.
*  40,441 out of 40,441 beneficiaries have collected their 3rd payment within one month period=
100 %.
* 39,906 out of 40,441 beneficiaries have collected their 4th payment within 15 days period =
98.68 %.
* Average: 98.92 % + 100 % + 100 % + 98.68 % - 4 payments = 99.40 %
54


﻿Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
NA.
55


﻿Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
*   SWF Law No. 39, 2008
*   SWF By-law for Law No. 39, 2010
*  Emergency Project Paper on the European Union Food Crisis Rapid Response Facility under the
Global Food Crisis Response Program, Emergency Social Safety Net Enhancement Project,
Report No. 50330-YE, December 8, 2009
*   Social Welfare Fund Institutional Support Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 53355-YE,
May 7, 2010
*  Third Development Program for Poverty Reduction (2006-2010)
*  Joint Social and Economic Assessment (2012)
*  Interim Strategy Note, World Bank (2012)
*  The Transitional Program for Stabilization & Development 2012-2014
*  Coping Strategies in Rural Yemen, June 2010
*  World Bank Mission Aide-memoires
*  ESSN Administrative Agreement
*  ESSN Progress Reports
56


﻿46°E                   48°E                  50°E                   52E                    54°E
R E P UB L|C         OFThis map ~ produced by the Map Design Unit ofThe World Bank.
The bnundaries, colors, denominations and ony oiher informaton
YEM      EN                                                                                                          t           itin &  Wh b-n-i-
o   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS     20°N                                                                                                            .20°N
®   GOVERNORATE CAPITALS                         REP. OF                        SAUDI       ARABIA
®    NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
MAIN ROADS                                                                                              .-
GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                                                     -
-  -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
18'N
42E      To Abha       44°E
Sarna-                     To Thamarit
.j   "     -N                                                  Thamud
AADAH                       SHM--    A
Saadah                                 \&\                                                                           ToMirba
A
AL-JOWF                        za      HA    RLA.MOUT              MAHqRAT
Maydi           Hi                                                                                       d-Ni
1°N         AHAAJAH AMRAN                                       AllHamMar'ayt'6N
l GhurafNihu
Al Luh 'ayyah,  1Hajiah                              ISistu
' Amnran                      0                     Hawra
M/I.A R I B
SaifAl MahwieSAN                  Maribr       ShabwahGufisd
MAHWIT                    SA                        SHABWA                                                     Sayhut
Al Hodeida                                  Nuqub
MHODElDAH    s            (3199m)           Nisab  Ataq                             Shihr
RMHDhamar     Rid.                                              Al Mul<alla
A -L-ýBEIDA
4°N                               AL -      Al Beida          AlHuwaymi                                                                                14°N
ibb ADHALE'E      *
(32 27mý)HAl Dhale'e                          Bir Al
Taiz        '          A BY A N
Mocha iz..                                   Ahwar
o1 At Turba h         aqra
'\ERITREA                       Lahej. -   Zinjibar                            Gulf          of         ACden
TurW,h o  LHJ         -den                                                                                         Qalansiyah  Qadub
ETH.                            ADENý
'Abd al KuriDas
DJIBOUTI                                    0    5,0  100  150 KilometesSr
12°N  -           I     I    I     IThe Brothers                                                                 O1°
RAMOUT GO
0       510      100 Miles
42°E                   44°E                    46°E                    48°E                    50°E                    5TE                     54°E


