Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056744 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Grant Agreement 
 
(Implementation of Adaptation Measures in Coastal Zones) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
and 
 
CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY CLIMATE CHANGE CENTRE 
 
Dated October 3, 2006 
 
Page  2
Page  3
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056744 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY  
GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated October 3, 2006, 
(“Grant Agreement”) entered into between: (a) 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“World Bank”), acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility, 
established pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 and Resolution No. 94-2 
of May 24, 1994 of the Executive Directors of the World Bank (“GEF”), for grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the World Bank as participants of 
the GEF; and (b) CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY CLIMATE CHANGE CENTRE 
(“Recipient”).   
 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, 
and said request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the 
Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility 
approved under Resolution 94-2; 
(B) 
the Participating Countries (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement), as ultimate beneficiaries of the Project, have each agreed to assist the 
Recipient in the carrying out of the Project, including the provision of counterpart 
contribution by each Participating Country in an amount equivalent to five hundred 
thousand United States Dollars (USD 500,000) for national coordination activities, 
including as specified in Parts 1.2(e), 2.1(b), and 3.1 of the Project, on terms and 
conditions that will be detailed in corresponding Participation Agreements to be entered 
into between the Recipient and each Participating Country concerned (“Participation 
Agreements”);  
(C) 
by an agreement dated August 3, 2006, between the Recipient and the 
International Union for Conservation of Nature (“IUCN”), the IUCN has agreed to 
provide assistance to the Recipient in the form of an in-kind contribution (estimated value 
in an amount equivalent to USD 125,000) (“IUCN Contribution”) to assist in the 
financing of Part 3.2 of the Project on terms and conditions set forth in the agreement 
(“IUCN Contribution Agreement”);  
(D) 
by an agreement dated July 11, 2006, between the Recipient and the 
Meteorological Research Institute of Japan (“MRI”), the MRI has agreed to provide 
assistance in the form of an in-kind contribution (estimated value in an amount equivalent 
to USD 1,390,000) (“MRI Contribution”) to assist in the financing of Parts 1.1(b) and 
Page  4
-
2
-
2.1(a) of the Project on terms and conditions set forth in the agreement (
“MRI 
Contribution Agreement”); and 
(E) 
by an agreement dated December 15, 2004, between the Recipient and 
the Government of Italy (“GOI”), the GOI has agreed to make a grant in an amount 
equivalent to USD 320,000 (“GOI Grant”) to assist in the financing of the operation and 
management of the CCCCC (“GOI Grant Agreement”), which will support the 
implementation of the Project.  
WHEREAS the World Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, 
to extend a grant (the Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement. 
NOW THEREFORE, the Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix and included as the 
Attachment to this Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Grant 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions and in the 
preamble and the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
Article II 
The Project 
 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions and, to 
this end, shall carry out the Project with the assistance of the Participating Countries (as 
provided in the corresponding Participation Agreements).   
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
Page  5
-
3
-
Article III 
The Grant 
 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to two million one 
hundred thousand Dollars (USD 2,100,000
)
(“Grant”) to assist in financing the Project. 
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Article IV 
Remedies of the World Bank 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02 (i) of the 
Standard Conditions, consist of the following:   
 
(a) 
Ineligibility.  
IBRD or International Development Association (“IDA”) 
has declared the Recipient ineligible to
 
be awarded a contract financed by
 
IBRD or IDA. 
 
(b) 
The CCCCC Legislation (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely its ability to perform any of its obligations under the Grant Agreement. 
(c)
 
Donor and Participating Country Financing.
 
Any of the following 
events occurs with respect to the financing from Donors and Participating Countries:   
(i) Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right to withdraw 
the proceeds of the relevant Donor or Participating Country financing has been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
the relevant agreement.   
(ii) Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient 
establishes to the satisfaction of the World Bank that:  (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, or termination was not caused by the failure of the Recipient to 
perform any of its obligations under the relevant Donor or Participation 
Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the Recipient’s obligations under 
the Grant Agreement. 
Page  6
-
4
-
(d) 
Event prior to Effectiveness.  
The World Bank has determined after the 
Effective Date that prior to such date but after the date of the Grant Agreement, an event 
has occurred which would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the Recipient's right 
to make withdrawals from the Grant Account if the Grant Agreement had been effective 
on the date such event occurred. 
Article V 
Effectiveness 
 
5.01. 
The Grant Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to 
the World Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the conditions specified below 
have been satisfied. 
 
(a) 
The execution and delivery of the Grant Agreement on behalf of the 
Recipient have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and 
corporate action.  
 
(b) 
The execution and delivery of a Participation Agreement on behalf of the 
Recipient and each Participating Country has been duly authorized or ratified by all 
necessary governmental and corporate action.   
 
(c) 
If the World Bank so requests, the condition of the Recipient, as 
represented or warranted to the World Bank at the date of the Grant Agreement, has 
undergone no material adverse change after such date. 
 
5.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) and (b), there 
shall be furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the World 
Bank of counsel acceptable to the World Bank or, if the World Bank so requests, a 
certificate satisfactory to the World Bank of a competent official of the Participating 
Country, showing the following matters:  
 
(a)  
on behalf of the Recipient, that the Grant Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on its behalf and is legally binding 
upon it in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
each Participation Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Recipient and the relevant Participating Country and is legally binding upon each such 
party in accordance with its terms.  
 
5.03. 
Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Grant 
Agreement shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank dispatches to 
the Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required pursuant to Section 5.01 
(“Effective Date”).  If, before the Effective Date, any event has occurred which would 
have entitled the World Bank to suspend the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account if the Grant Agreement had been effective, the World Bank may 
Page  7
-
5
-
postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in this sub-paragraph until such event (or 
events) has (or have) ceased to exist.  
 
5.04. 
Termination for Failure to Become Effective
.
The Grant Agreement and all 
obligations of the parties under it shall terminate if it has not entered into effect by the 
date 90 days after the date of this Agreement, unless the World Bank, after consideration 
of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later date for the purpose of this Section which 
later date typically may not extend more than eighteen (18) months after September 7, 
2006 in which the World Bank approved the Grant.  The World Bank shall promptly 
notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
Article VI 
Representatives; Addresses 
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the Director. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
Caribbean Community Climate Change Centre 
 Second 
Floor 
 
Lawrence Nicholas Building 
 
P.O. Box 563 
 Ring 
Road 
 
Belmopan City, Belize 
 
Facsimile: 
 501-822-1365 
 
6.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is:  
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
Cable Address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 INTBAFRAD 
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as an Implementing Agency of the  
 
Global Environment Facility 
 
By /s/ Caroline Anstey 
Authorized Representative 
 
CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY CLIMATE CHANGE  
CENTRE 
 
By /s/ Kenrick R. Leslie 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in supporting the efforts of 
the Participating Countries to implement specific, integrated, pilot adaptation measures 
that address primarily 
the impacts of climate change on the Participating Countries’ 
natural resource base, with a focus on biodiversity and land degradation along coastal and 
near-coastal areas. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1
.
Identification, Evaluation, Selection and Design of Adaptation Measures
1.1. 
Carrying out of feasibility analyses of proposed adaptation measures 
including: (a) assessment of the current ecosystem and physical condition and trends in 
coastal areas of the Participating Countries; (b) provision of data by the MRI that 
estimates current and future temperature and rainfall patterns along proposed project 
sites; (c) analysis of specific climate change impacts, primarily concerning biodiversity of 
global significance and assessment of alternatives including, 
inter alia
,
technical, 
environmental, social, institutional, and risk and cost analyses; and (d) selection of 
recommended actions. 
 
1.2. 
Design of adaptation measures including: (a) creation of technical and 
engineering designs; (b) creation of environmental and social management plans; (c) 
organization of community participation campaigns; (d) establishment of a monitoring 
and evaluation system to measure the impacts of adopted measures; and (e) establishment 
and adoption of plans and cooperation agreements by the Participating Countries with 
local and regional institutions and agencies for the implementation of the respective 
adaptation measures. 
 
Part 2.
Implementation of Selected Adaptation Measures in Participating Countries
2.1. 
Coordination and implementation of selected adaptation measures in 
seven sites within the Participating Countries, including: (a) provision of required data by 
MRI for analyzing the pressures on biodiversity and land degradation from anticipated 
climate projections; and (b) carrying out of in-country coordination and supervision by 
each Participating Country on the implementation of the relevant adaptation measures in 
consultation with local communities. 
2.2 
Morne Diablotin National Park and Neighboring Communities 
(Dominica)
.
Implementation of adaptation measures in the Morne Diablotin National 
Park and the neighboring coastal communities of Colihaut, Dublanc and Bioche, 
including: (a) development of a park management plan consistent with the land use plan 
of adjoining buffer areas, incorporating climate change considerations and corresponding 
Page  10
-
8
-
enforcement strategy; (b) development of measures to address water supply deficits; and 
(c) analyses of flood risk including the identification of flood prone areas and key flood 
mitigation actions, and the strengthening of institutional and community ability to enforce 
adopted land zoning.  
2.3. 
Morne Trois Pitons National Park (Dominica)
.
Revision and update of 
the protected area management plan for the Morne Trois Pitons National Park, and 
establishment of pilot adaptation measures to enhance the resilience of aquatic systems 
and watershed areas and to improve water resource areas.  
2.4. 
Vieux-Fort Region (Saint Lucia)
.
Establishment of adaptation measures 
to enhance the efficient use of available water supplies and increase resilience to water 
scarcity conditions anticipated from climate change impacts in the Vieux-Fort Region 
and potentially the Pointe Sable National Park. 
2.5. 
Castries Area (Saint Lucia)
.
Carrying out of scientific and engineering 
studies to assess vulnerabilities and define priorities relating to the strengthening of 
critical infrastructure (hospitals, shelters, fire stations and storm barriers), to the effects of 
intensified hurricanes in the Castries region of Saint Lucia, including the retrofitting of 
one specific building. 
2.6 
Bequia and Union Islands (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines)
.
Establishment of an integrated ecosystem approach to climate change in the islands of 
Bequia and Union, including the implementation of adaptation measures to address fresh 
water needs and coastal vulnerabilities while reducing land degradation and protecting 
fragile biodiversity. 
2.7 
Spring Village (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines)
.
Implementation of 
mitigation and adaptation measures that address land degradation and related impacts on 
coastal and marine ecosystems, including: (a) implementation of river stabilization 
measures; (b) implementation of measures to reduce the risk of landslides, flash flooding, 
and coastal degradation; and (c) development of community natural hazards management 
plans. 
Part 3.
Strengthen Capacity of Participating Members to Implement Multilateral 
Environmental Agreements
.
3.1. 
Development of a harmonized national reporting framework (i.e., legal, 
institutional and management structures) by each Participating Country that integrates 
climate change, biodiversity and land degradation obligations under the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Convention on Biological Diversity, 
and the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification and Drought, coordinated 
among the three Participating Countries. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
3.2. 
Provision of technical assistance by IUCN to Participating Countries to 
develop a single report using the harmonized national reporting framework referred to 
in Part 3.1 above. 
 
3.3. 
Testing of the application of the harmonized framework, referred to in 
Part 3.1 above, in relation to specific adaptation measures under Part 2 of this Project. 
 
Part 4.
Technical Assistance and Project Management
Provision of: (a) technical assistance to coordinate Project activities, including the 
implementation of a monitoring system, development and implementation of a 
communication strategy, administrative and financial management, and annual audits; 
and (b) operational expenditures related to Project management. 
Page  12
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Participation  Agreements.
 
1.
 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall enter into an 
agreement with each Participating Country, under terms and conditions approved 
by the World Bank, which shall include the following:  
(a) 
the Participating Country concerned shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project, as stipulated in an annex to the respective 
Participation Agreement; 
(b) 
the Participating Country concerned shall: (i) take or cause to be taken all 
action to permit the Recipient to carry out the Project, and (ii) not take or 
permit to be taken any action that would prevent or interfere with the 
Recipient’s compliance with its obligations under this Agreement; 
(c) 
the Participating Country concerned shall assign a full time national 
coordinator responsible for: (i) developing a work plan to undertake 
national level activities and integrate them with regional activities, (ii) 
coordinating national level activities, (iii) assisting local communities in 
designing and implementing site specific activities, (iv) developing terms 
of reference for the national level activities, (v) assisting the Recipient in 
the selection and management of consultants, (vi) assisting with the 
monitoring and evaluation of national level Project activities, (vii) 
preparing monthly progress reports for submission to the Recipient, and 
(viii) ensuring the timely execution of community level activities; 
(d) 
the Participating Country concerned shall provide the Recipient with the 
necessary information and/or documentation to enable the Recipient to 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; 
(e) 
the Participating Country concerned shall, for the purposes related to this 
GEF Grant Agreement, provide all reasonable opportunity for 
representatives of the World Bank and the Recipient to visit any part of 
its territory, and obtain all reasonably requested information; 
(f) 
the Participating Country concerned shall assist the Recipient in 
preparation of annual work plans and progress reports as required under 
this Agreement; and 
Page  13
-
11
-
(g) 
for the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Participating Country 
concerned shall identify resources in connection with the implementation 
of the Project in each proposed annual budget to its legislature.  The total 
contribution of the Participating Country concerned shall be an amount 
equivalent to USD 500,000 provided over the course of Project 
implementation, in addition to the assignment of a national coordinator. 
2.
 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under each Participation Agreement in 
such manner as to fulfill the obligations of the Recipient and the World Bank to 
accomplish the purposes of the Grant Agreement.  Except as the World Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive 
any of the provisions of the Participation Agreement. 
B
.
Other.
 
1.
 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions, the 
Recipient shall ensure that: 
(a) 
the Project is carried out in accordance with the Operational 
Manual, including the environmental framework and financial management and 
procurement arrangements satisfactory to the World Bank; 
(b) 
the Operational Manual or any part thereof is not amended, 
waived, suspended or abrogated without the World 
Bank’s prior written 
concurrence, and in case of any inconsistency between the provisions of the 
Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this 
Agreement shall prevail; and 
(c) 
the World Bank is promptly informed of any developments in 
the legislation or regulations of the Participating Countries and/or the rules or 
procedures of the Participating Countries or the Recipient that may affect the 
performance of the Project. 
2.
 
Environmental Assessments.  
For the purposes of carrying out Part 2 of the 
Project, the Recipient shall carry out the selected adaptation measure only after 
conducting an environmental assessment in accordance with the environmental 
framework contained in the Operational Manual, in consultation with local 
communities.  The assessment shall: (a) identify any potential environmental or 
social risks associated with the proposed adaptation measure, (b) classify the 
proposed measures according to the most serious potential adverse effects, and 
where necessary, (c) examine the potential negative and positive impacts, and (d) 
recommend actions to prevent, mitigate or compensate for adverse impacts and 
improve environmental performance and social conditions.   
Page  14
-
12
-
3.
 
Where a proposed adaptation measure is likely to have adverse environmental 
impacts, the Recipient shall consult with affected groups and local 
nongovernmental organizations during preparation and implementation, 
providing in a timely manner prior to consultation (at least 60 days before 
implementation of related activities) relevant material in a form and language 
understandable and accessible to the groups being consulted.  If the 
environmental assessment of any particular adaptation measure identifies a 
potential negative environmental impact or social impact, and the Recipient 
decides to proceed with the proposed adaptation measure, the Recipient shall take 
or cause to be taken all mitigation measures acceptable to the World Bank. 
4.
 
Without limitation to provision B.2 of this Section, the Recipient confirms that 
the Project shall not implement adaptation measures that may have significant 
adverse environmental impacts that are sensitive, diverse or unprecedented.  
5. 
Donor Agreements.  
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under each Donor Agreement in such manner as to protect its interest 
and the interest of the World Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Grant 
Agreement and, except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall not waive or fail to enforce any such agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports.
 
1.
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the performance 
indicators set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  The 
first Project Report shall cover the period between the Effective Date and 
the first June or December following that date, and shall be furnished to 
the World Bank not later than one month after the end of that period.  
Thereafter, each Project Report shall cover the period of six months 
(being January through June or July through December), and shall be 
furnished to the World Bank not later than one month after the end of the 
period covered by such report.   
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above 
consist of the following: 
i. 
Preserve the ecosystem functioning in Morne Diablotin and Morne 
Trois Pitons National Parks in Dominica (measured through the 
stabilization of the population of key flagship species, such as 
A. 
imperials 
and
 A. araucaria
)
that is affected by climate change 
impacts.   
Page  15
-
13
-
ii. 
Stabilization of the health of the coastal ecosystems in the Vieux Fort 
area (measured through density and productivity of coastal 
mangroves in Mankote / Savannes Bay) that are affected by climate 
change and other stressors. 
iii.  Incorporation of lessons from strengthening of key infrastructure into 
local hazards management plan and building guidelines in Saint 
Lucia. 
iv. Stabilization of the population of remaining Black Mangrove 
(
Avicennia sp
)
stands in Union Island (measured through density and 
productivity) that are affected by climate change.  
v. Finalization of the Bequia island integrated natural resource 
management plan, addressing matters including climate change 
biodiversity and land degradation concerns, and incorporation into 
the national development planning process.  
vi. Stabilization of the diversity of coral reefs and associated species 
(measured by number and density of species) in the Spring Village 
area that are affected by climate change and land degradation 
impacts. 
2.
 
The Recipient shall prepare a Recipient’s Completion Report in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.06 (b)(ii) of the Standard Conditions.  The Recipient’s 
Completion Report shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six 
months after the Closing Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
1.
 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard 
Conditions. 
2.
 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the World Bank as part of the Project Report not later than 
one month after the end of each six month period, interim un-audited financial 
reports for the Project covering that six month period, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the World Bank.  The six month periods shall be January through 
June, and July through December.  The first un-audited financial report shall 
cover the period between the Effective Date and the first June or December 
following that date.  Thereafter, each interim un-audited financial report shall be 
furnished to the World Bank not later than one month after each subsequent six 
month period.  
 
Page  16
-
14
-
3.
 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year (January-
December) of the Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than four months after the 
end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
.
1. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All c
onsultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
Page  17
-
15
-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
 
(d) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(e) Single Source Selection 
 
(f)  Individual Consultants
 
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
World Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the World Bank.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A. General. 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the World Bank 
may specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
Page  18
-
16
-
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (expressed in 
USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Goods 
and consultants’ 
services for Part 1 of the 
Project, with the exception of 
subparts 1.1(a), 1.1(b) and 
1.2(e) 
200,000 100% 
(2)  Goods, works and 
consultants’ services for Part 
2
of
the Project, with the 
exception of subpart 2.1 
1,500,000 100% 
(3)  Goods and consultants’ 
services for Part 3.3 of the 
Project 
200,000 100% 
(4)  Goods and consultants’ 
services for Part 4 of the 
Project 
200,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
2,100,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or   
(b) 
for expenditures financed, or to be financed, by the IUCN Contribution, 
MRI Contribution, GOI Grant, or by the counterpart contributions of the 
Participating Countries.
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “operating expenditure” means 
reasonable expenditure directly related to the implementation, management and 
monitoring of the Project (which expenditure would not have been incurred 
absent the Project), consisting of equipment lease and maintenance, office and 
Page  19
-
17
-
scientific supplies and equipment, communications, vehicle fuel, bank charges, 
travel and per diem of Project staff, and salaries of core Project staff (Project 
coordinator, procurement specialist, and other required personnel for the Project 
management) hired for the duration of the Project, but excluding salaries of any 
permanent staff of the Recipient.   
3.
 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard Conditions is 
June 30, 2011. 
Page  20
-
18
-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“CCCCC” or the “Caribbean Community Climate Change Center” means the 
center established pursuant to an agreement dated February 4, 2002, 
provisionally applied by a protocol dated February 5, 2002, upon signature by the 
representatives of Barbados, Belize, Grenada, Co-operative Republic of Guyana, 
Jamaica, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname and 
Trinidad and Tobago. 
 
3. 
“CCCCC Legislation” means the abovementioned agreement dated February 4, 
2002, establishing and governing the CCCCC. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in May 
2004. 
5. 
“Convention on Biological Diversity” means the convention adopted at the June 
1992 UN Conference on Environment and Development and entered into force 
on December 29, 1993. 
6. 
“Dollar”, “$” and “USD” each means the lawful currency of the United States of 
America. 
7. 
“Donor” or collectively “Donors” means any of the following entities: IUCN,  
MRI, or GOI (as the abbreviations are defined herein and in the preamble to this 
Agreement). 
8. 
“Donor Agreement” or collectively “Donor Agreements” means any of the 
following agreements: IUCN Contribution Agreement, MRI Contribution 
Agreement, or GOI Grant Agreement (as the terms are defined in the preamble of 
this Agreement). 
9. 
“Effective Date” means the date referred to in Section 5.03 of this Agreement. 
10. 
“IUCN” means the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and 
Natural Resources, also known as the World Conservation Union, which is 
constituted in accordance with the Swiss Civil Code as an international 
organization of governmental and non-governmental members, and is governed 
under its statutes of October 5, 1948, revised on October 22, 1996 and amended 
on November 24, 2004. 
Page  21
-
19
-
11. 
“MRI” means 
the 
Meteorological Research Institute, an associate institute of the 
Japan Meteorological Agency under the Japan Ministry of Land, Infrastructure 
and Transport. 
12. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, acceptable to the World Bank, which 
sets forth the policies and procedures that will apply to the carrying out of the 
Project, including, 
inter alia
:
(a) an environmental framework; (b) updated 
financial management procedures (including a chart of accounts and policy for 
travel advances); and (c) procurement arrangements. 
13. 
“Participating Country” or collectively “Participating Countries” means any of 
the following countries: (a) Commonwealth of Dominica; (b) Saint Lucia; and (c) 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. 
14. 
“Participation Agreement” or collectively “Participation Agreements” means any 
of the agreements entered into between the Recipient and the individual 
Participating Countries for the purposes of governing the assistance to be 
provided by the Participating Countries to the Recipient under the Project, on 
terms and conditions acceptable to the World Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
those 
set forth in Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004. 
16. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 28, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
17. 
“Standard Conditions” means the “Standard Conditions for Grants made by the 
World Bank acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment 
Facility” dated March 22, 2006, with the modifications set forth in Section II of 
this Appendix. 
18. 
“United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification and Drought” means the 
convention adopted at the United Nations in June 1994, and entered into force on 
December 26, 1996. 
19. 
“United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change” means the 
convention adopted at the United Nations on May 9, 1992, and entered into force 
on March 21, 1994. 
Page  22
-
20
-
Section II.   
Modifications to the Standard Conditions 
The modifications to the 
“Standard Conditions for Grants made by the World Bank 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility” dated March 22, 
2006 are as follows:   
The reference to “Member Country” in Sections 2.09, 3.07, 4.02, 4.03, 4.05, 5.03  
means any of the Participating Countries. 
Page  23
ATTACHMENT
 
Standard Conditions  
 
for 
Grants 
made by 
the 
 
World Bank 
as an 
Implementing Agency 
of the  
Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated March 22, 2006
Page  24
ARTICLE I 
Introductory Provisions 
 
Section 1.01. 
Application of Standard Conditions. 
 
These standard conditions (“Standard 
Conditions”) set forth certain terms and conditions generally applicable to grants made by 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (referred to as “IBRD” or the 
“World Bank”) as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility.  They 
apply to the extent specified in the grant agreement (“Grant Agreement”) providing for 
any of such grants (“Grant”) between the World Bank and the party to which the Grant is 
extended (“Recipient”).  The term “Grant Agreement” includes all appendices, schedules, 
agreements supplemental and amendments to such agreement, as well as these Standard 
Conditions as applied to such agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Inconsistency
 
with Grant Agreement.
 
If any provision of the Grant 
Agreement is inconsistent with a provision of these Standard Conditions, the provision of 
the Grant Agreement shall govern. 
 
Section 1.03. 
Definitions.
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Grant Agreement, 
wherever capitalized terms are used in these Standard Conditions or in the Grant 
Agreement, they have the meanings ascribed to them in these Standard Conditions. 
 
Section 1.04. 
References; Headings.
 
References in these Standard Conditions to Articles 
and Sections are to the Articles and Sections of these Standard Conditions. Their 
headings are inserted in these Standard Conditions for reference only and shall not be 
taken into consideration in interpreting these Standard Conditions.  
 
ARTICLE II 
Project Execution
 
Section 2.01. 
Project Execution Generally.  
The Recipient shall ensure that:   
 
(a)  
the project described in the Grant Agreement (“Project) is carried out:  (i) 
with due diligence and efficiency; (ii) in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
technical, financial, economic, environmental and social standards and practices; and (iii) 
in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement and these Standard Conditions; 
and  
 
(b)  
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project 
shall be provided promptly as needed. 
 
Section 2.02. 
Insurance
.
The Recipient shall ensure that adequate provision is made for 
the insurance of any goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant, against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of the 
goods to the place of their use or installation. Any indemnity for such insurance shall be 
payable in a freely usable currency to replace or repair such goods. 
Page  25
-
2
-
Section 2.03. 
Land Acquisition
.
The Recipient shall ensure that all action is taken to 
acquire as and when needed all land and rights to land that are required to carry out the 
Project and shall promptly furnish to the World Bank, upon its request, evidence 
satisfactory to the World Bank that such land and rights are available for the Project. 
 
Section 2.04. 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
;
Maintenance of Facilities.  
The 
Recipient shall ensure that:   
 
(a)  
except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods, works and 
services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant are used exclusively for the purposes 
of the Project; and  
 
(b)  
all facilities relevant to the Project are at all times properly operated and 
maintained and all necessary repairs and renewals of such facilities are made promptly as 
needed. 
 
Section 2.05. 
Documents; Records.  
The Recipient shall ensure that:  
 
(a)  
all documents related to the Project are promptly furnished to the World 
Bank upon its request, in such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably request;  
 
(b)  
records are maintained adequate to record the progress of the Project 
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods, works and 
services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant and to disclose their use in the Project, 
and such records are furnished to the World Bank promptly upon its request;  
 
(c)  
all records evidencing expenditures under the Project are retained until at 
least:  (i) two years after the Closing Date (as defined below in Section 3.06 (c)); or  (ii) if 
the World Bank requires audits of the Recipient’s Financial Statements pursuant to 
Section 2.07 (b) below, the later of:  (A) one year after the World Bank has received the 
audited Financial Statements covering the period during which the last withdrawal from 
the Grant Account was made; and (B) two years after the Closing Date; and  
 
(d)  
the representatives of the World Bank are able to examine all records 
referred to above in (b) and (c), and are provided all such information concerning such 
records as they may from time to time reasonably request.  
 
Section 2.06. 
Project Monitoring and Evaluation.  
The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
ensure the maintenance of policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to 
the World Bank, the progress of the Project and the achievement of its objectives; and 
 
(b) 
if so required in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement:   
Page  26
-
3
-
(i)  
(A) ensure the preparation of periodic reports (“Project Report”), 
in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank, integrating 
the results of such monitoring and evaluation activities and 
setting out measures recommended by the Recipient to ensure 
the continued efficient and effective execution of the Project, and 
to achieve the Project’s objectives; each Project Report to cover 
the period specified in the Grant Agreement and to be furnished 
to the World Bank not later than the date specified for that 
purpose in the Grant Agreement; and (B) afford the World Bank 
a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Recipient 
on such report, and thereafter implement such recommended 
measures, taking into account the World Bank’s views on the 
matter; and 
 
(ii) 
ensure the preparation of, and furnish to the World Bank not 
later than the date specified for that purpose in the Grant 
Agreement:  (A) a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
World Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
Project, the performance by the Recipient and the World Bank of 
their respective obligations under the Grant Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant; and (B) a plan 
designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project’s 
achievements (“Recipient’s Completion Report”). 
 
Section 2.07. 
Financial Management; Financial Statements; Audits.  
The Recipient shall 
ensure that:
 
(a) 
a financial management system is maintained and financial statements 
(“Financial Statements”) are prepared in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the World Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project; and 
 
(b) 
if so required in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement:  
(i) the Financial Statements are periodically audited by independent auditors acceptable 
to the World Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable 
to the World Bank; and (ii) the Financial Statements, as so audited, are furnished to the 
World Bank not later than the date specified in the Grant Agreement for that purpose, 
together with such other information concerning the audited Financial Statements and 
such auditors, as the World Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 2.08. 
Cooperation and Consultation
.
The Recipient and the World Bank shall 
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Grant and the objectives of the Project 
will be accomplished, and to this end, throughout the implementation of the Project and 
for a period of ten years thereafter:   
 
Page  27
-
4
-
(a)  
from time to time, at the request of either of them, exchange views on the 
Project, the Grant, and the performance of their respective obligations under the Grant 
Agreement, and furnish to the other party all such information related to such matters as 
it shall reasonably request; and  
 
(b)  
promptly inform the other party of any condition which interferes with, 
or threatens to interfere with, such matters. 
 
Section 2.09. 
Visits. 
The Recipient shall, throughout the implementation of the Project 
and for a period of ten years thereafter:   
 
(a)  
if it is the member of the World Bank in whose territory the Project is 
carried out or any of such
 member’s political or administrative subdivisions (“Member 
Country”), enable the representatives of the World Bank to visit any part of its territory 
for purposes related to the Grant;  
 
(b)  
if it is not the Member Country, take all measures required on its part to 
enable the World Bank to visit any part of the Member Country’s territory for purposes 
related to the Grant; and  
 
(c)  
enable the World Bank’s representatives:  (i) to visit any facilities and 
sites included in the Project; and (ii) to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant, and any documents relevant to the performance of its obligations under the 
Grant Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds 
 
Section 3.01. 
Grant Account; Withdrawals Generally; Currency of Withdrawals.
 
(a) 
The World Bank shall credit the amount of the Grant in the currency of 
denomination of the Grant to an account opened in its books in the name of the Recipient 
(“Grant Account”).  The Recipient may from time to time request withdrawals of 
amounts of the Grant from the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Grant Agreement and of these Standard Conditions. 
 
(b) 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant from the Grant Account shall 
be made in the currency of denomination of the Grant.  The World Bank may, at the 
request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, and on such terms and conditions as the 
World Bank shall determine, purchase with such currency withdrawn from the Grant 
Account such other currencies as the Recipient shall reasonably request to meet payments 
for Eligible Expenditures (as defined in Section 3.06).  Whenever it shall be necessary for 
the purpose of the Grant Agreement or these Standard Conditions to determine the value 
of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably determined by the 
World Bank. 
Page  28
-
5
-
Section 3.02. 
Funding Shortfall.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01, no 
withdrawals shall be made if, as a result of such withdrawal, the total amount of the Grant 
withdrawn from the Grant Account would exceed the amount available to the World 
Bank from resources provided to it for purposes of the Grant. 
 
Section 3.03. 
Special Commitment by the World Bank.  
At the Recipient's request and on 
such terms and conditions as the Recipient and the World Bank shall agree, the World 
Bank may enter into special commitments in writing to pay amounts for Eligible 
Expenditures notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation of an amount of 
the Grant (“Special Commitment”).  
 
Section 3.04. 
Applications; Supporting Evidence.
 
(a) 
When the Recipient wishes to withdraw an amount from the Grant 
Account or to request the World Bank to enter into a Special Commitment, the Recipient 
shall deliver to the World Bank a written application for the purpose in such form and 
substance as the World Bank shall reasonably request (“Application”). 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall furnish to the World Bank:  (i) evidence satisfactory 
to the World Bank of the authority of the person or persons authorized to sign each 
Application and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person; and (ii) such 
documents and other evidence in support of each Application as the World Bank shall 
specify, whether before or after the World Bank has permitted any withdrawal requested 
in the Application (“Supporting Evidence”). 
 
(c) 
Each Application for an amount of the Grant, and its Supporting 
Evidence, must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the World Bank that the 
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account, and that such 
amount will be used only for the purposes specified in the Grant Agreement.  
Applications shall be made promptly in relation to Eligible Expenditures. 
 
(d) 
The World Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from 
the Grant Account only to, or on the order of, the Recipient. 
 
Section 3.05. 
Designated Accounts.
 
(a) 
The Recipient may open and maintain one or more designated accounts 
into which the World Bank may, at the request of the Recipient, deposit amounts 
withdrawn from the Grant Account as advances for purposes of the Project (“Designated 
Accounts”).  All Designated Accounts shall be opened in a financial institution 
acceptable to the World Bank, and on terms and conditions acceptable to the World 
Bank.  
 
Page  29
-
6
-
(b) 
Deposits into, and payments out of, any Designated Account shall be 
made in accordance with the Grant Agreement and these Standard Conditions and such 
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify from time to time by notice to the 
Recipient.  The World Bank may, in accordance with the Grant Agreement and such 
instructions, cease making deposits into any such account upon notice to the Recipient.  
In such case, the World Bank shall notify the Recipient of the procedures to be used for 
subsequent withdrawals from the Grant Account. 
 
Section 3.06. 
Eligible Expenditures.  
The Recipient shall ensure that the proceeds of the 
Grant are used exclusively to finance expenditures which, except as otherwise provided 
in the Grant Agreement, satisfy the following
 requirements (“Eligible Expenditures”): 
 
(a) 
the payment is for the reasonable cost of goods, works or services 
required for the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant and procured, all 
in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the payment is not prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
(c) 
the payment:  (i) is made on or after the date specified in the Grant 
Agreement for that purpose; and (ii) except as the World Bank may otherwise agree, is 
for expenditures incurred prior to the date specified in the Grant Agreement (or such later 
date as the World Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient) after which the World 
Bank may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to withdraw 
from the Grant Account (“Closing Date”).  
 
Section 3.07. 
Financing Taxes.   
 
(a) 
The Grant Agreement may specify that the proceeds of the Grant may 
not be withdrawn to pay for taxes, imposts, levies, fees or duties of any nature (“Taxes”) 
levied by, or in the territory of, the Member Country on or in respect of Eligible 
Expenditures, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.  In such case, 
if the amount of any such Taxes decreases or increases, the World Bank may, by notice to 
the Recipient, adjust the percentage of such Eligible Expenditures to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant specified in the Grant Agreement, as required to ensure 
consistency with such limitation on withdrawals. 
 
(b) 
In the absence of such specification, the use of any proceeds of the Grant 
to pay for such Taxes is nevertheless subject to the World Bank’s policy of requiring 
economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its credits and grants.  To that end, 
if the World Bank at any time determines that the amount of any such Tax is excessive, 
or that such Tax is discriminatory or otherwise unreasonable, the World Bank may, by 
notice to the Recipient, adjust the percentage of such Eligible Expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant specified in the Grant Agreement, as required to ensure 
consistency with such policy of the World Bank. 
Page  30
-
7
-
Section 3.08. 
Reallocation.  
If, in the World Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant 
allocated to a category of Eligible Expenditures under the Grant Agreement will be 
insufficient to finance the expenditures under such category, the World Bank may, by 
notice to the Recipient:   
 
(a)  
reallocate to such category any other amount of the Grant which in the 
World Bank’s opinion is not needed for other Eligible Expenditures, to the extent 
required to meet the estimated shortfall; and  
 
(b)  
if such reallocation will not fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the 
percentage of Eligible Expenditures to be financed under such category, in order that 
further withdrawals for such expenditures may continue until all such expenditures have 
been made. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Cancellation; Suspension; Grant Refund 
 
Section 4.01. 
Cancellation by the Recipient.
 
The Recipient may, by notice to the World 
Bank, cancel any unwithdrawn amount of the Grant, except that the Recipient may not 
cancel any such amount that is subject to a Special Commitment. 
 
Section 4.02. 
Suspension by the World Bank.
 
The World Bank may, by notice to the 
Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account if any of the following events occurs and is continuing.  Such suspension shall 
continue until the World Bank has notified the Recipient that such right to make 
withdrawals has been restored. 
 
(a) 
Interference.  
If the Grant has been made to a Recipient which is not the 
Member Country, the Member Country has:  (i) taken or permitted to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with the execution of the Project or the performance by 
the Recipient of its obligations under the Grant Agreement; or (ii) failed to afford a 
reasonable opportunity for representatives of the World Bank to visit any part of its 
territory for purposes related to the Grant or the Project. 
 
(b) 
Performance Failure.  
The Recipient has failed to perform any 
obligation under the Grant Agreement.  
 
(c) 
Cross Suspension
.
IBRD or IDA has suspended in whole or in part the 
right of the Recipient (or of the Member Country, if the Recipient is not the Member 
Country) to make withdrawals under any agreement with IBRD or with IDA because of a 
failure by the Recipient (or by the Member Country) to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement or any other agreement with IBRD or IDA. 
 
Page  31
-
8
-
(d) 
Extraordinary Situation.  
As a result of events which have occurred after 
the date of the Grant Agreement, an extraordinary situation has arisen which makes it 
improbable that the Project can be carried out or that the Recipient will be able to 
perform its obligations under the Grant Agreement.   
 
(e)  
Misrepresentation. 
A
representation made by the Recipient in or 
pursuant to the Grant Agreement, or any representation or statement furnished by the 
Recipient and intended to be relied upon by the World Bank in making the Grant, was 
incorrect in any material respect.  
 
(f)  
Assignment of Obligations; Disposition of Assets. 
The Recipient (or any 
other entity responsible for implementing any part of the Project) has, without the consent 
of the World Bank:  (i) assigned or transferred, in whole or in part, any of its obligations 
arising under or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement; or (ii) sold, leased, 
transferred, assigned, or otherwise disposed of any property or assets financed wholly or 
in part out of the proceeds of the Grant; provided, however, that the provisions of this 
paragraph shall not apply with respect to transactions in the ordinary course of business 
which, in the opinion of the World Bank:  (A) do not materially and adversely affect the 
ability of the Recipient (or such other entity) to perform any of its obligations arising 
under or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the 
Project; and (B) if the Grant has been made to a Recipient which is not the Member 
Country, do not materially and adversely affect the financial condition or operation of the 
Recipient (or such other entity). 
 
(g)  
Membership. 
The Member Country:  (i) has been suspended from 
membership in or ceased to be a member of IBRD or of IDA; or (ii) has ceased to be a 
member of the International Monetary Fund.  
 
(h) 
Condition of Recipient.  
If the Grant has been made to a Recipient which 
is not the Member Country: 
 
(i) 
Any action has been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment 
or suspension of operations of the Recipient (or of any other 
entity responsible for implementing any part of the Project). 
 
(ii)  
The Recipient (or any other entity responsible for implementing 
any part of the Project) has ceased to exist in the same legal form 
as that prevailing as of the date of the Grant Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
In the opinion of the World Bank, the legal character, ownership 
or control of the Recipient (or of any other entity responsible for 
implementing any part of the Project) has changed from that 
prevailing as of the date of the Grant Agreement so as to 
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Recipient (or 
such other entity) to perform any of its obligations arising under 
Page  32
-
9
-
or entered into pursuant to the Grant Agreement, or to achieve 
the objectives of the Project. 
 
(i) 
Additional Event. 
Any other event specified in the Grant Agreement for 
the purposes of this Section has occurred (“Additional Event of Suspension”).  
 
Section 4.03. 
Cancellation by the World Bank.  
The World Bank may, by notice to the 
Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals with respect to an 
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant, and cancel such amount, if any of the following events 
occurs with respect to such amount: 
 
(a) 
Suspension. 
The right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account has been suspended with respect to any amount of the Grant for a 
continuous period of thirty days. 
 
(b)  
Amounts not Required. 
The World Bank determines, after consultation 
with the Recipient, that an amount of the Grant will not be required to finance Eligible 
Expenditures. 
 
(c)  
Misprocurement;
 
Fraud and Corruption. 
The World Bank:  (i) 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, 
that (A) the procurement of such contract is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Grant Agreement; or (B) corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive 
practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient (or the Member Country, if 
the Recipient is not the Member Country, or other recipient of the Grant proceeds) during 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Recipient (or Member 
Country or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the World Bank to remedy the situation; and (ii) establishes the amount of 
expenditures under such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the Grant.  
 
(d) 
Closing Date. 
After the Closing Date, there remains an unwithdrawn 
amount of the Grant. 
 
Section 4.04. 
Amounts Subject to Special Commitment Unaffected
.
No cancellation or 
suspension by the World Bank shall apply to amounts subject to any Special 
Commitment, except as expressly provided in the Special Commitment. 
 
Section 4.05. 
Grant Refund 
 
(a) 
If the World Bank determines that an amount of the Grant has been used 
in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of the Grant Agreement or these Standard 
Conditions, the Recipient shall, upon notice by the World Bank to the Recipient, 
promptly refund such amount to the World Bank. Such inconsistent use shall include, 
without limitation, use of such amount to: (i) make a payment for an expenditure that is 
Page  33
-
10
-
not an Eligible Expenditure; or (ii) finance a contract during the procurement or 
execution of which corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in 
by representatives of the Recipient (or the Member Country, if the Recipient is not the 
Member Country, or other recipient of such amount of the Grant), without the Recipient 
(or Member Country or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the World Bank to remedy the situation.  
 
(b) 
Except as the World Bank may otherwise determine, the World Bank 
shall cancel all amounts refunded pursuant to this Section.  
 
Section 4.06. 
Continued
 
Effectiveness.  
Notwithstanding any cancellation, suspension or 
refund under this Article, all the provisions of the Grant Agreement shall continue in full 
force and effect, except as specifically provided in these Standard Conditions.  
 
ARTICLE V 
Enforceability; Arbitration 
 
Section 5.01. 
Enforceability.  
 
The rights and obligations of the Recipient and the 
World Bank under the Grant Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance 
with their terms notwithstanding the law of any state or of any of its political subdivisions 
to the contrary.  Neither the Recipient nor the World Bank shall be entitled in any 
proceeding under this Article to assert any claim that any provision of these Standard 
Conditions or of the Grant Agreement is invalid or unenforceable because of any 
provision of the Articles of Agreement of the World Bank.  
 
Section 5.02. 
Failure to Exercise Rights
.
No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, 
any right, power or remedy accruing to any party under the Grant Agreement upon any 
default shall impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver 
thereof or an acquiescence in such default. No action of such party in respect of any 
default, or any acquiescence by it in any default, shall affect or impair any right, power or 
remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.  
 
Section 5.03. 
Arbitration.  
Any controversy between the parties to the Grant Agreement 
and any claim by any such party against the other arising under the Grant Agreement 
which has not been settled by agreement of the parties shall be submitted to arbitration by 
an arbitral tribunal (“Arbitral Tribunal”) as hereinafter provided. 
 
(a)  
The parties to such arbitration shall be the World Bank on the one side 
and the Recipient on the other side.  
 
(b)  
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as 
follows:  (i) one arbitrator shall be appointed by the World Bank; (ii) a second arbitrator 
shall be appointed by the Recipient; and (iii) the third arbitrator (“Umpire”) shall be 
appointed by agreement of the parties or, if they do not agree, by the President of the 
Page  34
-
11
-
International Court of Justice or, failing appointment by said President, by the Secretary-
General of the United Nations. If either side fails to appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator 
shall be appointed by the Umpire. In case any arbitrator appointed in accordance with this 
Section resigns, dies or becomes unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in 
the same manner as prescribed in this Section for the appointment of the original 
arbitrator and such successor shall have all the powers and duties of such original 
arbitrator. 
 
(c)  
An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon 
notice by the party instituting such proceeding to the other party. Such notice shall 
contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to be submitted to 
arbitration, the nature of the relief sought and the name of the arbitrator appointed by the 
party instituting such proceeding. Within thirty days after such notice, the other party 
shall notify to the party instituting the proceeding the name of the arbitrator appointed by 
such other party.  
 
(d)  
If within sixty days after the notice instituting the arbitration proceeding, 
the parties have not agreed upon an Umpire, either party may request the appointment of 
an Umpire as provided in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 
(e)  
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be 
fixed by the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when it 
shall sit.  
 
(f) 
 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its 
competence and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the parties 
shall otherwise agree, determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral Tribunal shall 
be by majority vote.  
 
(g) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to the parties a fair hearing and shall 
render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An award signed by 
a
majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of the Arbitral Tribunal. A 
signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party. Any such award 
rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final and binding upon 
the parties to the Grant Agreement. Each party shall abide by and comply with any such 
award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the provisions of this Section.  
 
(h)  
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators and 
such other persons as are required for the conduct of the arbitration proceedings. If the 
parties do not agree on such amount before the Arbitral Tribunal convenes, the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be reasonable under the circumstances. Each party 
shall defray its own expenses in the arbitration proceedings. The costs of the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall be divided between and borne equally by the parties. Any question 
concerning the division of the costs of the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for payment 
of such costs shall be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.  
Page  35
-
12
-
(i)  
The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu of 
any other procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to the Grant 
Agreement or of any claim by any such party against the other such party arising under 
the Grant Agreement.  
 
(j)  
If, within thirty days after counterparts of the award have been delivered 
to the parties, the award has not been complied with, any party may:  (i) enter judgment 
upon, or institute a proceeding to enforce, the award in any court of competent 
jurisdiction against any other party; (ii) enforce such judgment by execution; or (iii) 
pursue any other appropriate remedy against such other party for the enforcement of the 
award and the provisions of the Grant Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the 
Recipient is the Member Country, this Section shall not authorize any entry of judgment 
or enforcement of the award against the Recipient except as such procedure may be 
available otherwise than by reason of the provisions of this Section. 
 
(k)  
Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under 
this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered pursuant 
to this Section may be made in the manner provided in Section 7.01. The parties to the 
Grant Agreement waive any and all other requirements for the service of any such notice 
or process. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination  
 
Section 6.01. 
Effectiveness.
 Unless otherwise specified in the Grant Agreement, the Grant 
Agreement shall become effective on the date as of which it has been executed by all 
parties to the Grant Agreement. 
 
Section 6.02. 
Termination.  
The Grant Agreement and all obligations of the parties under 
it shall forthwith terminate when all such obligations have been fully performed. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
Miscellaneous 
 
Section 7.01. 
Notices and Requests.  
Any notice (or request) pursuant to the Grant 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice (or request) shall be deemed to have been 
duly given (or made ) when it has been delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile 
(or, if permitted under the Grant Agreement, by other electronic means) to the party to 
which such notice (or request) is directed (“Addressee”), at the address specified in the 
Grant Agreement for the purpose (or at such other address as the Addressee shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice (or making such request)) 
(“Address”). Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  
 
Page  36
-
13
-
Section 7.02. 
Action on Behalf of the Recipient.  
The representative designated by the 
Recipient in the Grant Agreement, for the purpose of this Section (or any person 
authorized in writing by such representative for the purpose) (“Recipient’s 
Representative”), may take any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to the 
Grant Agreement, and execute any documents required or permitted to be executed 
pursuant to the Grant Agreement on behalf of the Recipient. 
 
Section 7.03. 
Evidence of Authority
.
The Recipient shall furnish to the World Bank:  
(a) sufficient evidence of the authority of the Recipient’s Representative; and (b) the 
authenticated specimen signature of such representative.  
 
Section 7.04. 
Execution in Counterparts.
 
The Grant Agreement may be executed in 
several counterparts, each of which shall be an original. 
 
Section 7.05. 
Disclosure.
 
The World Bank may make the Grant Agreement and any 
information related to the Grant Agreement publicly available in accordance with its 
policy on disclosure of information, in effect at the time of such disclosure. 
 
