Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1000 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address: INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
October 14, 2010 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
Dr. Kenrick R. Leslie 
Executive Director 
Caribbean Community Climate Change Centre 
Second Floor 
Lawrence Nicholas Building 
PO Box 563 
Bliss Parade 
Belmopan City 
Belize  
 
Re: 
GEF Trust Fund No. TF056744 
(Implementation of Adaptation Measures in Coastal Zones) 
 
Amendment to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement
Dear Sir: 
 
Please refer to the Global Environmental Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement (
“GEF TF 
Grant Agreement”) between the Caribbean Community Climate Change Center ( the “Recipient”) 
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the “Bank”) acting as an 
Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility (“GEF”), dated October 3, 2006, with 
respect to the above-captioned Project.   
 
Pursuant to your request under the letters dated July 1, 2010 and September 28, 2010, 
respectively, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the GEF TF Grant Agreement as follows: 
 
1. 
The preamble to the Agreement is amended as follows:  
 
(a) 
by deleting paragraph (C) and renumbering paragraphs (D) and (E) as paragraphs 
(C) and (D) respectively. 
 
(b) 
paragraph (C) of the Preamble (as renumbered) is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(C) 
by an agreement dated July 11, 2006, as amended, between the Recipient 
and the Meteorological Research Institute of Japan (“MRI”), the MRI has agreed 
to provided assistance in the form of an in-kind contribution (estimated value in 
an amount equivalent to USD 600,000) (“MRI Contribution”) to assist in the 
financing of Parts 1.1(b) and 2.1(a) of the Project on terms and conditions set 
forth in the agreement (“MRI Contribution Agreement”); and” 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
2. 
Schedule 1 to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement is amended as follows: 
 
(a) 
Part 2 of the Project is amended by: (i) deleting Part 2.7; and (ii) modifying 
Parts 2.1 and 2.6, respectively, to read as follows: 
 
“2.1. 
Coordination and implementation of selected adaptation measures in five 
sites within the Participating Countries, including: (a) provision of required data 
by MRI for analyzing the pressure on biodiversity and land degradation from 
anticipated climate projections; and (b) carrying out of in-country coordination 
and supervision by each Participating Country on the implementation of the 
relevant adaptation measures in consultation with local communities.”  
 
“2.6. 
Bequia (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines)
Establishment of an integrated ecosystem approach to climate change in the 
island of Bequia, including the implementation of adaptation measures to address 
fresh water needs and coastal vulnerabilities while reducing land degradation and 
protecting fragile biodiversity.” 
 
(b) 
Part 3 of the Project is amended by deleting Parts 3.2, and renumbering Part 3.3 
 as 
3.2. 
 
(c) 
Part 4 of the Project is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Part 4
.
Project Management
Supporting the management and coordination of Project activities, including the 
implementation of a of a monitoring system, development and implementation of 
a
communication strategy, administrative and financial management, and annual 
audits, through the provision of technical advisory services and operating costs.”  
 
3. 
Schedule 2 to the GEF TF Grant Agreement is amended as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section I.A.1(g) is amended to read as follows: 
 
“1. 
(g) 
for the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Participating 
Country concerned shall identify resources in connection with the 
implementation of the Project, in-kind or cash contribution, including the 
assignment of a national coordinator. The total contribution of the in-
kind and cash contribution of the Participating Country concerned shall 
be adequate to cover the part of the concerned Participating Country’s 
commitment to complete the Project, but shall not exceed an amount 
equivalent to USD 500,000.” 
 
(b) 
Section II.A.1 of Schedule 2 to the GEF TF Grant Agreement is amended by 
deleting sub-paragraphs (a) and (b), respectively, and replacing it with the 
following:  
 
“1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable 
Page  3
-
3
-
to the World Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of six 
months, and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than one 
month after the end of the period covered by such report.” 
 
(c) 
The table set forth in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the GEF TF Grant 
 
Agreement is deleted and replaced with the table set forth in the Attachment to 
 this 
Amendment. 
 
(d) 
Section IV.B.1(b) of Schedule 2 is amended by deleting the words, “by the IUCN 
 Contribution.” 
 
(e) 
Section IV.B.2 of Schedule 2 to the GEF TF Agreement is amended to read as 
 follows: 
 
“2. 
For the purpose of this Schedule the following terms have the meaning 
 
set forth herein:  
 
(a) 
“Operating Costs” means the costs incurred by the Recipient, on 
account of the management, implementation and monitoring  of the 
Project (which expenditure would not have been incurred absent of the 
Project), including the incremental costs of administrative, financial and 
procurement  support under the Project, equipment lease and 
maintenance, office and scientific supplies and equipment, 
communications, vehicle fuel, bank charges, travel and perdiem of 
Project staff, but  excluding salaries of any permanent staff of the 
Recipient. 
(b) 
“Workshop” means costs incurred by the Recipient, on account 
of approved workshops and seminars for the personnel of the 
Participating Countries involved in implementation of the Project, 
including travel and subsistence costs for the participants, costs 
associated with securing the services of presenters and workshop 
facilitators, rental of workshop facilities, preparation and reproduction of 
workshop materials, and other costs directly related to course preparation 
and implementation.” 
(f) 
Section IV.B.3 of Schedule 2 to the GEF TF Grant Agreement is modified to  
 
 
read as follows: 
 
“3. 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06(c) of the Standard 
Conditions is December 31, 2011.” 
 
4. 
Section I of the Appendix to the GEF TF Agreement is amended as follows: (a) deleting 
from paragraph 7 the words, “IUCN”, (b) deleting from paragraph 8 the words, “IUCN 
Contribution Agreement”, and (c) deleting paragraph 10, and renumbering the subsequent 
paragraphs as 10 through 18. 
 
All other provisions of the Agreement, as amended herein, shall remain in full force and 
effect.  
 
Page  4
-
4
-
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing, dating and 
returning to the Bank the enclosed copy of this Amendment.  This Amendment shall be executed 
in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original. The provisions of this Amendment shall 
become effective as of the date first above written, upon receipt by the Association of the 
countersigned Amendment. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By pp Christina Malmberg Calvo 
Yvonne M. Tsikata 
Director 
Caribbean Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
AGREED: 
 
THE CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY 
 
By:  
Kenrick R. Leslie 
 
(Authorized Representative) 
 
Title: 
Executive Director  
 
Date: 
November 2, 2010  
 
Page  5
-
5
-
Copy: 
 
Mr. Stephenson King 
Prime Minister and Minister for Finance  
Greaham Louisy  
Administrative Building 
Waterfront, Castries 
St. Lucia 
 
Hon Dr. Ralph E. Gonsalves 
Prime Minister and Minister of Finance and 
Economic Development 
Administrative Center 
Kingstown 
St. Vincent and the Grenadines 
 
Hon Roosvelt Skerrit 
Prime Minister and Minister of  
Finance and Social Security 
5
th
 Floor, Financial Centre 
Kennedy Avenue, Roseau 
Commonwealth of Dominica 
 
Page  6
-
6
-
Attachment 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
The table below specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of the Grant to each 
Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for eligible Expenditures in each 
Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be Financed           
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, consultants’ 
services and Workshops for 
Part 1 of the Project (except 
Part 1.1(b) and 1.2(e)) 
 365,000 
100% 
(2) Goods, works, consultants’ 
services and Workshops for 
Part 2 of the Project (except 
Part 2.1) 
 1,450,000 
100% 
(3) Goods, consultants’ 
services and Workshops for 
Part 3.1 and 3.2 of the Project 
 75,000 
100% 
(4) Goods, consultants’ 
services and Operating Costs 
for Part 4 of the Project 
 210,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 2,100,000 
 
