                                             Documentof
                                         The WorldBank

                                      For Official Use Only

                                                                              Report No: 34152-LAC


                             PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                ONA

                               PROPOSEDGRANT FROMTHE
                  GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

                            INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$2.1 MILLION


                                   FORTHE BENEFIT OFTHE

 COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA, SAINT LUCIA, AND ST. VINCENT AND THE
                                            GRENADINES

     THROUGHTHE CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY CLIMATE CHANGE CENTER
                                               (CCCCC)

                                               FORAN


      IMPLEMENTATIONOFADAPTATION MEASURES INCOASTAL ZONES
                                              PROJECT

                                            August 8,2006




Environmentally & Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Caribbean Country Management Unit
LatinAmerican and CaribbeanRegion

This document has a restricted distribution andmay beusedbyrecipients only inthe
performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange RateEffective June 30,2006)
                          CurrencyUnit = US$
      East Caribbean Dollar (XCD)2.69 = US$ 1




                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    - December31



                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACCC   Adapting to Climate Changeinthe Caribbean
CBD    Convention on Biological Diversity
CBO    Community BasedOrganization
ccccc  CaribbeanCommunity Climate Change Centre
CDB    CaribbeanDevelopment Bank
CDD    Community DrivenDevelopment
CERMES Centrefor ResourceManagement and Environment
CIDA   Canadian International Development Agency
COP    Conferenceo f Parties
CPACC  CaribbeanPlanning for Adaptation to Climate Change
DOMLEC Dominica Electricity Corporation
ECU    Environmental Coordinating Unit
FA0    Food andAgricultural Organization
IA     Implementing Agency
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
INC    Initial National Communication
IFAD   International Fundfor Agricultural Development
IMF    International Monetary Fund
IPCC   Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change
IUCN   International Union for the Conservation ofNature
IWCAM  Integrated Watershed and Coastal Areas Management
MACC   Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change
MEA    Multi-lateral environmental agreements
NBSAP  National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan
NCSA   National Capacity SelfAssessment
NEMO   National Emergency Management Office
NFP    National Focal Point
NGO    Non-Governmental Organization
OECS   Organization o f EasternCaribbean States
OPAAL  OECS Protected Areas and Associated Livelihoods
PA     ProtectedArea

PC      Participating countries
PDF-B   Project Development Facility - Block B
P M U   Project Management Unit
RAMSAR  Convention on Wetlands o f International Importance Especially as Waterfowl
        Habitat (RAMSAR Convention).
SIDS    Small IslandDeveloping States
SLM     Sustainable LandManagement
SPA     Special Program on Adaptation
TAR     ThirdAssessment Report
UNCCD   United Nations Convention to Combat Desertificationand Drought
UNDP    United Nations Development Programme      '
UNEP    UnitedNations Environment Programme
UNESCO  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNFCCC  United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
UWI     University o f the West Indies
VINLEC  St. Vincent Electricity Company
WASCO   Water and Sewage Company



                          Vice President:     Pamela Cox
             Country ManagedDirector:         Caroline Anstey
                         Sector Manager:      Abel Mejia
                     Task Team Leader:        Walter Vergara

FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA. SAINT LUCIA. AND ST VINCENT AND THE                                                .
                                                       GRENADINES
    IMPLEMENTATION OFADAPTATION MEASURES INCOASTAL ZONES


                                                         CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                  Page

A.STRATEGIC       CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                      ....................................................................    1

 1.  Regional. Country and sector issues...................................................................................                          1
 2.  Rationale for Bank involvement .........................................................................................                       5
 3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes                                  .................................................... 6

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION                        .................................................................................................     7

 1.  Lending instrument .............................................................................................................                7
 2.  Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................                                  7
 3.  Project components          .............................................................................................................       8
 4.  Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                               ..........................................................    13
 5.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection............................................................                                  16

C. IMPLEMENTATION                   ........................................................................................................        16

 1.  Partnership arrangements              ..................................................................................................       16
 2.  Institutional and implementation arrangements.,                              ..............................................................    17
 3.  Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomeshesults................................................................                                  18
 4.  Sustainability and Replicability                ........................................................................................       18
 5.  Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects...............................................................                                20
 6.  Loadcredit conditions and covenants                       ...............................................................................      21

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                          .................................................................................................       21

 1.  Economic and financial analyses ......................................................................................                         21
 2. Technical   ...........................................................................................................................         22
 3.  Fiduciary  ...........................................................................................................................         22
 4.  Social.................................................................................................................................        23
 5.  Environment      ......................................................................................................................        23
 6.  Safeguard policies        .............................................................................................................        24
 7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                           24


                                                                     i

Annex 1: Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground                               .........................................................    25

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies                                                      .................57

Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring                       ........................................................................      59

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription           ......................................................................................       68

Annex 5: ProjectCosts...............................................................................................................       75

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                .................................................................................       76

Annex 7: CaribbeanCommunityClimateChangeCenter (CCCCC)                                                 ...................................  79

Annex 8: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements                                              .....................................  83

Annex 9: ProcurementArrangements              ......................................................................................        87

Annex 10: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis                    ...........................................................................       92

Annex 11:IncrementalCost Analysis            .......................................................................................        93

Annex 12: SafeguardPolicyIssues         ..........................................................................................         102

Annex 13: ProjectPreparationandSupervision                       ...................................................................       104

Annex 14: Documentsinthe ProjectFile                ...............................................................................        105

Annex 15: Statementof LoansandCredits                  ............................................................................        106

Annex 16: Countriesat a Glance       .............................................................................................         109

Annex 17: STAP Roster Review        ..............................................................................................         115

Annex 18: EnvironmentalFramework               ...................................................................................         118

Annex 19: Climate ChangeVulnerability Assessment Methodology                                          ..................................   128




                                                           ..
                                                           11

                                      CARIBBEAN

        IMPLEMENTATIONOF ADAPTATIONMEASURESINCOASTAL ZONES
   INTHECOMMONWEALTHOFDOMINICA,ST.LUCIAAND ST.VINCENT &THE
                                     GRENADINES

                          PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                         LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                        LCSEN

Date: August 8,2006                           Team Leader: Walter Vergara
CountryDirector: CarolineD.Anstey             Sectors:Floodprotection(25%); General
Sector ManagedDirector: Abel Mejia            water, sanitationand floodprotectionsector
Project ID: PO90731                           (25%); Imgationanddrainage(25%); General
FocalArea: Climate change                     industryandtrade sector (25%)
LendingInstrument: Specific InvestmentLoan Themes: Climatechange (P); Biodiversity(S)
                                              Environmentalscreeningcategory: Partial
                                              Assessment
                                Project Financing Data
[ 3 Loan   [ 3 Credit [XI Grant   [ 3 Guarantee   [ 3 Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing(US$m.): 0.00




Total:                                             1.65   I          3.79 I           5.44




                                           111
                                           .I.

Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Ref: PADA.3                                                                        [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref: PAD D.7                                                                        [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                        [[ ]Yes [XINO
                                                                                       ]Yes [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref: PAD C.5                                                                        [XIYes [ ] N o

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Ref:PAD D.7                                                                         [XIYes [ ] N o

Project development objective Ref: PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The project development objective i s to support efforts by Dominica, Saint Lucia and St. Vincent
and the Grenadines to implement specific (integrated) pilot adaptation measures addressing
primarily,the impacts o f climate change on their natural resource base, focused on biodiversity
and landdegradation along coastal and near-coastal areas. This will be achieved through: (i)     the
detailed design o f pilot adaptation measures to reduce expected negative impacts o f climate
change on marine and terrestrial biodiversity and landdegradation; and (ii)   the implementation
o fpilot adaptation investments.
Global Environment objective Ref: PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The project also seeks to produce knowledge o f global value on how to implement adaptation
measures insmall islandstates that can be applied inother countries inthe region, not
participatinginthe project and even for islands inother regions o f the world. The value o f these
early lessons will make the GEF resources applied, more cost-effective inthe medium term.
The project complements the goals o f the MainstreamingAdaptation to Climate Change inthe
Caribbean (MACC) Project and applies the lessons and information gathered through the
Caribbean Planning for Adaptation to Climate Change (CPACC) project by pilotingthe
implementationo f adaptation measures incountries that have already taken mainstreaming
decisions and seek to execute specific measures to address the impacts o f climate change on
biodiversity and land degradation.
Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Ref:PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
The project would support four sets o f activities (components), three o f which will be prioritized
innationaladaptation strategies andrefinedthrough a series o fregionalandnational
consultations:
Component one: Identification, Evaluation, Selection and Designo f priority adaptation measures
addressing impacts o f climate change on biodiversity and land degradation (total cost $1.49
million; GEF funding $0.2 million).
Component two: Implementation o f selected adaptation measures designed to address climate
impacts on biodiversity and landdegradation (total cost $2.35 million, GEF funding$1.5
million). The project will support the coordination and implementation, o f pilot adaptation
measures inseven sites inthe participating countries thereby enhancing the resilience o f insular
ecosystems with biodiversity assets under threat from climate change.
Component Three:        Strengthen national capacity to implement multiple Multi-lateral
environmental agreements (MEA) (total cost US$0.78 million; GEF US$ 0.2 million). This
component, (mostly be financed by third party and counterpart contributions), would finance
goods and services requiredto develop and establish the buildingblocks for addressing multiple


                                                  iv

convention objectives as adopted by the three governments and promotedby the UnitedNations
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Convention on Biological Diversity
(CBD) andUnitedNations Conventionto combat desertificationand drought (UNCCD).
Component Four: Project Management (total cost US$ 0.85 m, GEF fundingUS$ 0.2 m).
Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Re$ PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
The project triggers (OP/BP/GP 4.01) and (OP/BP 4.04).
N o major adverse social impacts are expected as a result o fthis project given the nature o f the
activities and interventions (pilot subprojects). Any adaptation measures that are implemented
will only be done once appropriated interventions havebeen identifiedbylocal communities.
The local communities have actively participated inthe design o fthese pilot projects, and are
keen to take an active role inthe development and implementationo fmeasures that will increase
community resilience to climate change.
Consultation Process. The design and selection o f specific adaptation measures i s the result of a
comprehensive consultationprocess that included local, national and regional discussions with
ample participation o frelevant stakeholders. These discussions have been documented and
minutes archived inproject files. The process o f consulting and deciding upon adaptation
measures was initiated with the preparation o f the InitialNational Communications in2001.
Duringconsultationundertakenunder the PDF-B the adaptation measures were finally refined
and priority identified. The nationaland regional consultationconducted ineach o fthe
participating countries o f the project selected the specific adaptation measures to demonstrate the
benefits and costs o f adaptation activities. The selection process was based on the National
Communications, Issues Papers for all OECS, and the National Climate Adaptation Policies in
St. Vincent, Saint Lucia, Dominica, and criteria definedunder the SPA.
Environment. N o major adverse environmental impacts are expected as a result o f this project.
The project will not support measures that may have a significant environmental impact (no
category A). Minor environmental impacts might be expected from some on the ground
investments. EIAs will be undertaken prior to any physical intervention and results will be
disclosed 60 days prior to start up o f activities. The OM includes an environmental framework in
compliance with OP/BO/GP 4.01, An Environmental Assessment will be performed as part o f
the preparation o f each adaptation measures.
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref: PAD C.7
Board presentation:
Loadcredit effectiveness:
The participation agreements between the Recipient andthe three participating member countries
will be signed at the same time as the GEF grant agreement. The parties must, therefore, provide
evidence that the respective participation agreements have been duly authorized or ratified for
effectiveness.
Covenants applicable to project implementation:
Ifit is determined duringthedesign oftheproposedpilot adaptationmeasures (under
Component One o f the Project) that any such measure requires an environmental assessment,
such assessmentwill carried out before the implementationo fthe selected measure (under
Component Two o f the Project).




                                                    V


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Regional, Country and sector issues

1.         Global climate is changing rapidly. The 2001 Third Assessment Report o f the
Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change (IPCC, 2001) concluded that, with the continuing
emission o f greenhouse gases, the mean surface temperature may increase between 1.5 and 5.8
degrees Celsius during the next 100 years. Documentation being used in the preparation o f the
Fourth Assessment Report, due to be released by the year 2007 corroborates the range o f the
projected increase.' A change o f this magnitude i s unprecedented and will result in significant
impacts to be felt at a global scale. Along with changes in mean climatic conditions, the
biosphere potentially faces irreversible and catastrophic system impacts associated, for example,
with the reduction o f thermo-haline circulation, the melting o f the Greenland ice sheet (Epstein,
2005), the subsidence o f small islands, increases in intensity of hurricanes (Webster et. al.,
2005), and the elimination o f permafrost in Siberia and Northern Canada. Climate change is the
most serious challenge being faced by the global ecosystem. Overall, these impacts will affect in
particular, vulnerable regions, such as small islandstates.

2.         Climate change threatens the stability and integrity of marine and insular systems.
Small Island Developing States (SIDS) have been recognized as most vulnerable to the impacts
o f climate change, and as requiring greater attentionby the international community at large. The
Third Assessment Report (TAR) o f IPCC has documented the anticipated trends insea level rise
(SLR), increases in sea surface temperature, as well as changes in the precipitation cycle and
patterns o f extreme events, among the impacts that may severely affect the sustainable
development prospects o f Caribbean SIDS. The Report also highlights the severity o f their
expected climatic shifts, the low level o f their economic development and poor adaptability.

3.         The Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) region to which the three
participating countries belong is characterized by a rich biodiversity endowment, which, in
combination with its isolation from other areas has resulted in relatively high rates o f national
andregional endemism. A survey o fthe world's biodiversity hotspots identifies the Caribbean as
the fifth ranking "hotspot" and one o f the highest priorities inany global strategy for biodiversity
conservation and sustainable management2. In a separate study, the Eastern Caribbean region
was classified as "an unique marine ecosystem o f the tropical northwest Atlantic province" and
ranked as the highest priority within the province, in terms o f its conservation status (most
threatened)3. The principal ecosystems are dry and humid tropical forests, wetlands and tidal
flats, sandy and rocky beaches, coral reefs, seagrass beds, mangroves, offshore islets. The reef,
seagrass and mangrove systems o f this area are recognized as among the most productive in the
world.



' The   range of carbon emissionsfrom recent non-intervention scenarios is slightly higher on the upper limit than the SRES range
(more than 20GtC). The SRES scenarios have been criticized for overestimating future emissions; however, the Post-SRES
'literatureshows an even higher emission range(IPCC, FAR workshop, February 2005).
   Conservation International. 2003. State o f the Hotspots. (Conservation International. Washington, D.C.)
    Sullivan, Sealey and Bustmante, 1999. Setting Geographic Priorities for Marine Conservation in Latin America
andthe Caribbean. The Nature Conservancy, Arlington, Virginia.


                                                               1

4.      Extensive impacts on biodiversity are forecasted for the Caribbean, due to global
warming, (Malcom et Al., 2005). The potential seriousness o f the impacts o f global warming on
biodiversity hotspots is highlighted by projected extinctions, at the highend, under doubled-C02
climates, o f between 3943% o f the biota, representing the potential loss o f some 56,000
endemic plant species and 3,700 endemic vertebrate species. The four most vulnerable hotspots,
as per the analysis, may suffer extinctions o f more than 3,000 plant species (Cape Floristic
Region, Caribbean, Mediterranean Basin, Tropical Andes) and, inthree cases, o f more than 200
vertebrate species (Caribbean, Indo-Burma, and Tropical Andes). Thus the Caribbean i s found to
be amongst the most vulnerable ecosystems to climate impacts that within these high-value
ecosystems would constitute a key threat to the planet's biodiversity.

5.      Climate change will affect the physical and biological characteristics of the
Caribbean Sea and their coastal areas, modifying their ecosystem structure and
functioning. Caribbean nations depending on reef and coastal systems face losses o f fisheries
and shorelines. Likewise, wetlands, including reefs, atolls, keys and mangroves inthe Caribbean
are among those ecosystems considered to be most vulnerable to climate change because o f their
limited adaptive capacity. For example, coral reefs are expected to be impacted detrimentally if
sea surface temperatures increase bymore than one degree Celsius, above the seasonal maximum
temperature. In addition, acidification o f the ocean will affect the ability o f reef plants and
animals to calcify and thus reduce the ability o f reefs to grow vertically and keep pace with
rising sea levels.

6.      Also, innear-shore marine and coastal areas, many wetlands and coastal forests will
be affected by changes in sea level and storm surges. Mangroves and coastal lagoons are
expected to undergo rapid change and perhaps be lost altogether as functioning ecosystems.
Low-lying coastal areas and associated wetlands could also be displaced by salt water habitats,
disrupting fresh-water based ecosystems. Such changes are likely to result in dislocation o f
migratory birds and aquatic species, not tolerant to increased salinity or flooding. All these may
result in impacts to commercially important species and a pole-ward shift o f marine production,
seriously affecting the sustainability o f fisheries.

7.      Climate variability and intensification of hurricanes pose a significant threat to the
sustainable development of Small Island Developing Sates. There has been an increase inthe
intensity and number o f hurricanes in the Caribbean basin since 1970, associated to warmer sea
surface temperatures. This has major implications for coastal zones in most countries on the
Caribbean Basin, affecting coastal infrastructure and ecosystems and possibly forcing permanent
displacement o f populations from coastal zones. The intensification o f hurricanes also highlights
the need for additional efforts in the identification and development o f measures to adapt to
climate change andpreparedness actions. Every 2 % years a country in the Caribbean can expect
to be hit by a natural disaster, the cost o f which can equal as much as 100% o f GDP.

8.      The sustainable development of all OECS countries is highly dependent on their
natural resource base. The OECS region i s highly dependent on the degree o f resilience o f the
natural resource base that supports the key economic sector and activities (especially the tourism,
agriculture and fisheries sectors) to the impacts o f climate change, climate variability and land
degradation. The participating countries recognize hlly that they have no choice but to



                                                    2

aggressively pursue an integrated development approach that inter alia takes full account o f the
predicted and actual impacts o f global climate change, climate variability and the impacts on
biodiversity and land degradation, This recognition i s reflected in a number o f national policies
and strategies, both planned and implemented, including National Climate Change policies; the
National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP); the National Action Plan for
Implementation o f the UNCCD; Natural Hazard Mitigation Policy and the National Capacity
Self Assessments (NCSA). Competing demands upon limited human, financial and technical
resources within these three participating countries i s posing a challenge to the effective and full
implementation o fthese strategies.

9.         The potential economic impact of climate change on the CARICOM countries is
estimated at between US$1.4 and $9.0 billion for the impacts that could be estimated assuming no
adaptation to climate change. The wide range for the estimate o f potential economic impacts i s due
more to the uncertainty relating to the values and assumptions used than to the uncertainty about
climate changea4Inthe low scenario the total impact averages about 5.6 percent o f the gross domestic
product (GDP), rangingfkom 3.5 percent inTrinidad and Tobago to 16 percent inGuyana. Inthe high
scenario the total impact averages over 34 percent o f GDP, rangingfkom 22 percent inTrinidad and
Tobago to 103 percent inGuyana. On the other hand, these countries are responsible for only minor
emissions o fgreenhousegases.

10.        The largest category of impacts is the loss of land, tourism infrastructure, housing, other
buildings, and infrastructure due to sea-level rise. For example, the recently concluded vulnerability
assessment for insularareas inthe easternCaribbeansuggests a loss o f 17percent o fthe landarea on the
islando f San And& inthe next 80 years.' The increasedintensity o fhurricanesandtropical storms may
also lead to more injuries and deaths. The impacts on agriculture are potentially significant for
CARICOM countries. Reducedrainfall,ifconfirmed, could have serious effects onhealthand economic
activity andcould combine with sea-levelrisesto reducethe qualityand availability o f aquifers. Table 2
illustrates some o f the effects o f climate change on the natural resource base and how it affects
economic activity inthe region.

                                   Table 1.Vulnerability of Ecosystem Services and
                      Implications for Economic Activity in small island states in the Caribbean

     Issue or             Potential Effect of             Impact on       Sectors at           Economic Relevance**
     Resource               Climate Change                  global        Greatest
  Vulnerable to                                            commons          Risk*
     Climate
      Change
  Freshwater        Reducedprecipitation;              Endemic           Water          Water supply is anticipated to be a
  availability      increased evaporation and          coastal and       resources,     bottleneck for economic activity
                    saline intrusion from sea-level    near coastal      tourism,       and a serious health concern. All
                    rise                               habitats          agriculture water-using sectors would be
                                                                         and            affected.


  This estimatei s basedon limited data and numerousassumptions and hence is only a very rough initial estimate of the potential
economic impact due to climate change. This estimate of the potential economic impact of climate change should be used with
great care because it does not reflect possible adaptation to climate change and because of the uncertainty in the data and
assumptions. Those cautions apply with even greater force to the estimates for specific categories of impacts and for individual
'countries.Estimatesare often based on data for a single country, which may not be correct for other countries.
  Colombia, Primera comunicaci6n ante UNFCCC (Bogoti, Colombia, 2002)

                                                               forestry

 Degradation  Sea-level rise and changes in Mangroves,         Fisheries   Fisheries account for a sizable
 o f          sea temperature can affect      and coral reefs and          share o f GDP. Tourism accounts
 marine and   important ecosystems such as    o f global       tourism     for up to 83% o f GDP and is
 coastal      mangroves, fishing grounds,     importance                   highly dependant on the marine
 ecosystems   andcoral reefs.                                              ecosystem.
 Land flooding Sea-level rise will result in  Unique coastal Tourism,      Most tourism activities are located
              flooding o f coastal areas.     wetlands and     agriculture, inthe coastal zone. Significant
                                              inter-tidal areas and         capital investment assets and
                                                                forestry    infrastructure couldbe affected.
 Impacts on   Climatic extremes. Heavy        Animal and       Agriculture InSt. Vincent and the Grenadines,
 land         rainfall increasesthe potential plant species                 Census figures for 2000 show that
 ecosystems   for pest and diseases and       unique inthe                  60% o f the population is involved
              causes excessive soil erosion.  world, such as                inagriculture occupying 43% o f
              Drought conditions affect       endangered and                the land mass
              productivity, as the plants do  endemic parrot
              not yieldtheir optimum          andother bird
              production.                     species and
                                              vascular plants.
 Increased    Climate change may              Island wide      Multi-       The cost o f hurricanes and other
 climate      increase extreme events such    endangered        sectoral    natural disasters inthe Caribbean
 variability  as precipitation                habitats and                  region has been estimated at
              intensity, tropical storms, or  endemic animal                several hundredmillion dollars
              droughts.                       and plant                     over the past decade. These costs
                                              species                       continue to increase.

11.     Dominica, Saint Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines are fitting choices for
further action on the adaptation process and respond to their adoption of an integrated
approach to climate change adaptation planning. These are the first three countries in the
region that have adopted a comprehensive adaptation framework and thus, are best positioned
amongst Caribbean nations to implement pilot adaptation investments. Their adaptation policies
have been approved by the cabinets o f Saint Lucia and in Dominica. The government o f St.
Vincent and the Grenadines i s in the process o f adopting the integrated approach to adaptation.
The three participating countries have already taken basic decisions toward mainstreaming
climate change concerns in the development process, developed national climate change plans
and thus will provide valuable and complementary feedback to the efforts already in
implementation.

12.     Climate Change Adaptation Policies adopted inDominica (2003) and Saint Lucia (2002)
and St. Vincent articulate comprehensive action plans for ensuring that climate change
adaptation becomes formally integrated into all plans, policies and programs at the national and
community levels. These policy documents which were developed through a broad-based
consultative approach are unique in that they establish, for the first time, national adaptation
planning and management frameworks based on an integrated and holistic "ecosystem" approach
with its foundation firmly established within the national planning context. This approach also
forms the cornerstone o f Dominica's Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan which was formally
adopted by Cabinet in2001. Saint Lucia's intended objective i s to become the first nation in the
Western Hemisphereto commit to a zero greenhouse gas emissionpolicy.




                                                      4

13.     The participating countries have recognized that climate change, biodiversity and
land degradation are cross-sectoral issues that can best be addressed through integrated
strategic programs at the national and regional level thereby achieving "global benefits in
other focal areas". The three participating countries have all ratified the UNFCCC, UNCCD,
and UNCBD, and are active participants. These governments have recognized the
interconnection between terrestrial and marine ecosystems, and have adopted an "Islands
Systems Management" approach to natural resource management. However, these countries
have limited resources to meet multiple MEA obligations and have yet to buildthe linkages to
optimize the use o f these resources. GEF has recognized the need to seek synergies among core
operations supporting various Operational Programs and i s promoting and facilitating more
effective coordination. Climate change, land degradatioddesertification, and the conservation o f
biodiversity are interrelated, and measures to reduce the expected impacts from climate change
on marine and terrestrial resources provide room for synergistic implementation o f key MEA
measures.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

14.     The World Bank's involvement in climate change adaptation in the Caribbean began in
1998, with the GEF CPACC project (Caribbean Planning for Adaptation to Global Climate
Change) (1998-2001). The project, which was implemented in 12 Caribbean Community
(CARICOM) countries, focused on planning for adaptation to the impacts o f climate change. The
World Bank has continued its involvement with climate change adaptation work inthe region as
Implementing Agency (IA) for the GEF-funded "Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change"
(MACC) project (2003-2007) which seeks to support the development o f an enabling
environment for climate change adaptation in CARICOM countries. In the area o f adaptation
planning in SIDS, the World Bank is also the IA for the Kiribati Adaptation Project -
Implementation Phase ( U P 11) (2005-2008). The World Bank is also the IA for the GEF-funded
OECS Protected Areas and Associated Livelihoods (OPAAL) project (2005-2010) which is to
strengthen local and national capacity for protected areas management, thereby conserving
vulnerable marine and terrestrial ecosystems in accordance with objectives under the CBD. The
proposed project will also be implemented in close coordination with the Saint Lucia Disaster
Management Project I1(DMPII). The project builds on the Bank's experience in strengthening
infrastructure under ERDMP and DMPII, which aimed to lessen the effects o f hydro-
meteorological events. The proposed project will benefit from existing relationships with
relevant institutions, developed over the past five years by the Disaster Team, such as the
Ministry of Health, Ministry of Physical Planning, Ministry of Works and the National
Emergency Management Office. Finally the World Bank is involved in the implementation o f
the Colombia: Integrated National Adaptation Project already approved by the Board, which
provides a link to activities in the Caribbean, through work inthe San Andres archipelago and a
proposed adaptation project in the Gulf o f Mexico Wetlands in Mexico, which will provide
valuable relevant information.

15.     The last full CAS for the Organization o f Eastern Caribbean States (FY06-09) was
published inSeptember 6,2005. It considers two main pillars. The first pillar emphasizes growth
and competitiveness, which includes supporting Government's efforts to facilitate and encourage
private sector development, public sector modernization, and the provision o fkey utility services



                                                 5

on a sub-regional basis. The second pillar focuses on reducingvulnerability by promoting greater
social inclusion and by strengthening risk disaster management. The latter includes support for
catastrophe risk insurance and strengthened environmental protection. This project contributes to
the second pillar by addressing vulnerabilities to climate change ininsular marine and terrestrial
ecosystems and valuable global commons. The adaptation measures will lead to an enhanced
protection o f island ecosystems (mangroves, forests, rivers and water catchment areas, coral
reefs, coastal fisheries). The project will also reduce the vulnerability o f communities in target
sites. Adaptation activities are designed to strengthen local adaptive capacity, reducing risks and
contributing to the adoption o f sustainable practices.

3. Higher levelobjectives to which the project contributes

16.     The project follows the operational guidelines for the Strategic Priority "Piloting an
Operational Approach for Adaptation" (SPA). The project i s particularly in accordance with
guidelines 2, 3, 6 and 9 stating that the activities should primarily focus on impacts o f climate
change on the global commons; show how adaptation planningand assessment can be practically
translated into national policy and sustainable development planning; be country-driven, cost-
effective and integrated into national sustainable development and poverty-reduction strategies;
be guided by national communications, and other relevant country studies; include: (i)activities
within a natural resources management context that generate global environmental benefits, and
(ii)adaptationmeasures that provide other major development benefits (e.g. WEHAB, i.e.
water, energy, health, agriculture, biodiversity).

17.     Reducing the risks to global commons. The project will support the design and
implementation o f specific adaptation measures that will contribute to the reduction o f land
degradation and enhance the resilience o f vulnerable, globally-important ecosystems and
biodiversity, including the primary forest o f the Morne DiablotinNational Park (Dominica), the
undisturbed rain forests o f the Morne Trois Pitons National Park and World Heritage Site
(Dominica), the only remaining Caribbean island with old growth forest (Union Island), and the
sensitive marine environment (coral reefs, coral veneers, sea grass beds and offshore islands with
rare and endangered species) o f the Maria Islands Nature Reserve and proposed Pointe Sable
National Park which are both RAMSAR designated sites (Saint Lucia ).

18.     Preventing Land Degradation caused by climate impacts is global in geographic
scope. The Food and Agricultural Organization estimates that >70% o f the soils inthe Caribbean
show signs o f severe degradation. At the local level, St. Vincent and the Grenadines currently
exhibits classical symptoms o f land degradation occasioned by squatting, mono-cropping with
poor agricultural techniques, global weather patterns (changes in rainfall distribution, drought
and elevated atmospheric temperatures), deforestation and excessive use o f agrochemicals. The
smaller islands o f the Grenadines suffer a similar fate by default. The islands are major tourist
attraction because o f their exquisite beauty o f the offshore reefs. However the reef resources are
threatened by over exploitation and phenomena associated with global Climate Change - coral
bleaching, inflated ocean temperature and sea level rise6.



 Research conducted under the Sea Grants Project revealed that St. Vincent and the Grenadines has a base coastal
erosion o f 0.3m/year, however, between 1995 and 2000, areas in Richmond and Sand Bay recorded >15m coastal


                                                      6

19.      Promoting climate resilient development at the local level. At the local level, fisheries
and tourism sectors which represent the major share o f the GDP o f the participating countries,
will benefit from the adaptation pilots. Also critical infrastructure has been identified as very
vulnerable to the increased intensity o f tropical cyclones. The focus o f the project on coastal
areas directly benefits the tourism sector mainly located along the coasts. But also activities
towards enhancing the protection o f national parks in the face o f GCC will benefit ecotourism
activities. The project will address the availabiltiy o f fresh water in each participating country.
Water supply is anticipatedto be a bottleneck for economic activity and a serious health concern.
All water using sectors would be affected if anticipated GCC impacts on water supply are not
adequately addressed. These developments at the local level will contribute to the process o f
learning how adaptation measures can be developed and be effective; these will also guarantee
high degree o f local ownership and participation of the selected measures. The experience
gained through the pilots i s intended to inform the policy making process and result in the
adoption of climate resilient sustainable developmentpolicies.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lending instrument

20.      This is a GEF grant funded through the Strategic priority "Piloting an operational
approach to adaptation" (SPA). The project costs would be financed by a GEF grant o f US$2.1
million, with co-financing from: (i) three participating countries in the amount o f US$ 1.5
                                            the
million; and (ii)  other donors (US$ 1.84 million), for a total o f US$ 5.44 million. The SPA was
the result o f the Marrakesh Accords (COP-7), endorsed by the Conference o f Parties to the
UNFCCC, where the SIDS played an influential role. The GEF has set up the SPA, which
opened on July 1, 2004, which includes a requirement that: (i)                    activities be within a natural
resources management context that generate global environmental benefits, and (ii)                          involve
measures that provide other major development benefits (e.g. WEHAB, Le. water, energy,
health, agriculture, biodiversity).

2. Project development objective and key indicators

21.      The project development objective is to support efforts by Dominica, Saint Lucia
and St. Vincent and the Grenadines to implement specific (integrated) pilot adaptation
measures addressing primarily, the impacts of climate change on their natural resource
base, focused on biodiversity and land degradation along coastal and near-coastal areas.
This will be achieved through: (i) detailed design o f pilot adaptation measures to reduce
                                           the
expected negative impacts o f climate change on marine and terrestrial biodiversity and land
degradation; and (ii) implementation of pilot adaptation investments. Reducing these impacts
                         the
will primarilyresult inprotection o fbiodiversity and prevention o f land degradation but will also
induce economic benefits inthe tourism, fisheries, agriculture and forestry sectors, help maintain
the resource base upon which these economic activities rely and promote climate resilient
sustainable development. More importantly, the experience gained through these local level

erosion. Some coastal erosion has been attributed to the loss o f coral reef as a consequence of land base sources o f
pollution and sedimentation.


                                                         7

activities will assist and inform the policy decision making process and is expected to influence
the enactment o f climate resilient sustainable development policies.

22.     The project also seeks to produce knowledge of global value on how to implement
adaptation measures insmall island states that can be applied inother countries inthe region, not
participating inthe project and even for islands inother regions o f the world. The value o f these
early lessons will make the GEF resources applied, more cost-effective inthe medium term.

23.     The project complements the goals o f the Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change
inthe Caribbean (MACC) Project and applies the lessons and information gathered through the
Caribbean Planning for Adaptation to Climate Change (CPACC) project by piloting the
implementation o f adaptation measures in countries that have already taken mainstreaming
decisions and seek to execute specific measures to address the impacts o f climate change on
biodiversity and land degradation.

24.     Key performance indicators:
The project seeks to improve the resilience to climate change o f SIDS through the adoption o f
specific adaptation measures. These are the result o f community consultation and participation:
        Preserve the ecosystem functioning inMorne Diablotin and Morne Trois Pitons National
        Parks in Dominica (measured through the stabilization o f the population o f key flagship
        species, such as the stabilization o f two species o f Amazon Parrots (25 nesting pairs o f
        Amazona imperialis and 110 nesting pairs o f Amazona arausiaca) that are affected by
        climate change impacts.
        Maintain the health o f coastal ecosystems in the Vieux Fort area (measured through the
        stabilization o f the coverage, density and productivity o f 60 ha o f coastal mangroves in
        Mankote/ Savannes Bay), being affected by climate change and other stressors i s
        stabilized.
        Incorporate lessons from strengthening o f key infrastructure into local hazards
        management plan andbuildingguidelines in Saint Lucia.
        Stabilize population o f 25 ha o f remaining Black Mangrove (Avicennia sp) stands in
        Union Island (measured through area, density and productivity) affected by climate
        change impacts.
        Complete Bequia island integrated natural resource management plan, including climate
        change concerns and incorporate into national planningprocess.
        Stabilize diversity o f coral reefs and associated species (measured by stability in the
        number and density o f species over project lifetime) in the Spring Village area, affected
        by climate change.
        Global learning value. GEF uses the lessons learned in at least one GEF adaptation
        project and applies the experience with performance indicators by incorporating them
        into adaptation guidelines for adaptation.

3. Project components.

25.     The project would support three activities (components) prioritized innational adaptation
strategies andrefined through a series o f regional and national consultations.




                                                 8

26.     Component one: Identification, Evaluation, Selection and Design of priority
adaptation measures addressing impacts of climate change on biodiversity and land
degradation (total cost $ 1.5 million; GEF funding $0.2 million). Under this component the
following activities will be supported:
        Sub-component 1 - Feasibility Analysis of proposed adaptation measures. This
        subcomponent will include: (a) assessment o f the current ecosystem and physical
        condition and trends in coastal areas o f the Participating Countries; (b) provision o f data
        by the MRI that estimates current and future temperature and rainfall patterns along
        proposed project sites; (c) analysis o f specific climate change impacts, primarily
        concerning biodiversity o f global significance and assessment o f alternatives including,
        inter alia, technical, environmental, social, institutional, and risk and cost analyses; and
        (d) selection o frecommended actions.
    0   Sub-component 2 -Design of adaptation measures. This subcomponent will support: (a)
        Technical, engineering design; (b) environmental and social management plans; (c)
        community participation; (d) M&E system design to measure the impacts o f adopted
        measures; (e) establishment and adoption o f plans and cooperation agreements by
        participating countries with local and regional institutions and agencies for
        implementation o f adaptation measures.

27.     Component two: Implementation of selected adaptation measures designed to
address climate impacts on biodiversity and land degradation (total cost $2.35 million,
GEF funding $1.5 milion). The project will support the coordination and implementation, o f
pilot adaptation measures in seven sites in the participating countries thereby enhancing the
resilience o f insular ecosystems with biodiversity assets under threat from climate change. Under
this component the following activities, identified in national communications and other
studies, will be supported:
        Sub-component 1-Coordination of adaptation measures in theparticipating countries.
        This subcomponent will support the coordination and implementation o f the selected
        adaptation measures in seven sites within the participating countries. The following
        activities will be supported: (a) Provision o f data for analyzing the pressures on
        biodiversity    and   land degradation from anticipated          climate projections;     (b)
        In-country coordination and supervision by each participating country on the
        implementation o f the relevant adaptation measures in consultation with local
        communities.
        Sub-component 2 Implementation of adaptation measures in the biodiverse Morne
                            -
        Diablotin National Park and its Neighboring Communities (Dominica) identified in
        updated management plan under component 1. This subcomponent would support the
        adoption o f a Park Management Plan to address the impacts o f GCC primarily on
        globally important biodiversity and on land degradation issues and to reduce
        vulnerabilities in the Morne Diablotin National Park and in its neighboring coastal
        communities o f Colihaut, Dublanc and Bioche. Specifically, activities will be
        implemented to maintain ecosystem integrity and prevent biodiversity losses in the face
        o f changes intemperature and rainfall patterns.
        Sub-component 3        - Morne Trois Pitons National Park Integrated Ecosystem
        Management (Dominica): This subcomponent would support adaptation measures to
        address the impacts o f GCC primarily on globally important biodiversity and on land



                                                  9

  degradation issues and to reduce vulnerabilities inthe Morne Trois Pitons Nation Park, a
  World Heritage Site. Specifically, activities will be implemented to maintain ecosystem
  integrity and prevent ecosystem fragmentation in the face o f changes in temperature and
  rainfall patterns.
eSub-component 4      - Sustainability   of Water Resources and Supply of the Vieux-Fort
 Region (Saint Lucia): This subcomponent seeks to complement the national water
  supply program by adding a climate overlay and establishing adaptation measures that
  would result in increased resilience to the impacts o f climate variability and climate
  change inthe Vieux-Fort Region o f Saint Lucia, and the proposed Pointe Sable National
  Park. Specifically, activities will be implemented to enhance the efficient use o f available
  water supplies and increased resilience to water scarcity conditions anticipated from
  climate change impacts, including the maintenance o f freshwater runoffs toward coastal
  wetlands (Mankote/Savannah bay) and intertidal areas that represent unique habitats
  (coral reefs, sea grass beds and offshore islands with rare and endangered species, such as
  the Saint Lucia Racer (Liophis ornatus), a snake restricted to Maria Island, its last refuge
  inthe entire world, inandaroundthe proposed Pointe Sable National Park).
  Sub-component 5 Strengthened critical coastal infrastructure in the Castries area
  (Saint Lucia). This pilot adaptation measure seeks to demonstrate the design and
  implementation o f appropriate interventions to reinforce critical coastal infrastructure
  (hospitals, shelters, fire stations and storm barriers) to the effects on intensified
  hurricanes, in the Castries region o f Saint Lucia. The project will provide for the
  scientific and engineering services required to assess vulnerabilities, define priorities and
  retrofit one specific building.
  Sub-component 6 Integrated EcosystemApproach to Climate Change in Bequia and
                      -
  Union Islands (St. Vincent and the Grenadines): This is designed to support national
  efforts aimed at integrating climate change concerns into island ecosystem management.
  The project will focus on the implementation o f adaptation measures to address the
  absence o f fresh water (Bequia) and coastal vulnerabilities (Bequia and Union), as
  identified in ongoing work through MACC. This subcomponent will support the
  completion o f Island Integrated Resource Management Plans and the implementation o f
  key adaptation measures to address water supply (Bequia) and reduce vulnerability to
  climate change impacts on remaining Black Mangrove stands (Avicennia sp.) in Union
  Island.
  Sub-component 7 Climate Change Risk Management for Spring Village (St. Vincent
                      -
  and the Grenadines): The project will support the implementation o f adaptation
  measures to address land degradation and its impact on sensitive coastal and marine
  ecosystems, including coral reefs affected by increased sea surface temperatures and sea
  level rise, based on the coral reef monitoring program supported through MACC.
  Adaptation measures will address land use / land planning issues and associated
  vulnerabilities. The project will support implementation o f mitigation and adaptation
  measures to reduce the risk o f landslides and flash flooding; coastal degradation, and the
  development o f a community natural hazards management plan in collaboration with the
  National Emergency Management Office (NEMO)




                                            10

28.     All project activities, while addressing the losses inthe natural resource base will induce
economic benefits to key sectors, and attend local development needs. The local benefits tied to
the global goals are described inthe table below:

              Table 2. Sum1 ary of global and local benefits from proposed adal ation measures
         Activity                            Global Benefits                          LocalBenefits
  Implementation of         0   Reduction o f ecosystem vulnerabilities to          0 Water supply
  adaptation measures in        global climate change due to precipitation            vulnerability reduced
  the biodiverseMorne           variation and increased temperatures.               0 Reduced flood risk
  Diablotin National Park       Maintenance o f integrity o f criticalhabitat for
  and i& Neighboring            endangered species (A. imperials andA.
  Communities                   araucaria)
  (Dominica) identified in  0   Control o f landdegradation process
  updated management
  plan under component
  I.
  Morne TroisPitons         0   Reduction o f ecosystem vulnerabilities to          0 Improvedwater
  National Park                 global climate change due to precipitation            resource management
  Integrated Ecosystem          variation and increased temperatures.
  Management                    Maintenance o f integrity o f critical habitat for
  @om inica)                    endangered species (A. imperials andA.
                                araucaria)
  Sustainability of Water       Reduction o fcoastal ecosystem vulnerabilities        Efficient use o f
  Resourcesand Supply of        to climate impacts incritical coastal habitat         available water
  the Vieux Fort Region         home to endangeredplants (Tetrazygia
  (Saint Lucia)                 angustifolia andMyrcia leptocelda) at
                                immediate risko f extinction.
                                Reduction o fbiodiversity loss (coral reefs, sea
                                grass beds and offshore islands with rare and
                                endangered species, such as the Saint Lucia
                                Racer (Liophisornatus),a snake restrictedto
                                Maria Island, its last rehge inthe entire world)
                                inandaroundthe proposedPointeSable
                                NationalPark)
  Strengthened critical         Global learning value                               0 Protection o f local
  coastal infrastructure in                                                           population during
  the Castries area (Saint                                                            extreme weather
  Lucia)                                                                              events
                                                                                    0 Reduced post-disaster
                                                                                      cost
  Integrated Ecosystem      0   Global learning value from development o f          0 Decreased erosion
  Approach to Climate           island integrated ecosystem management to             Maintenance o f
  Change in Bequia and          address reduction infresh water resulting from        environmental
  Union Islands (St.            climate impacts inBequia Island.                      services from Black
  Vincentand the                Protection o f global biodiversity through            Mangroves
  Grenadines)                   reduced vulnerability to climate change impacts
                                on remaining Black Mangrove stands
                                (Avicennia sp.) inUnion Island.
  Climate ChangeRisk            Reduced landdegradation                               Landuseplan
  Managementfor Spring      0   Reduced impact on sensitive coastal and marine        developed and
  Village (St. Vincentand       ecosystems, including coral reefs affectedby          implemented
  the Grenadines)               increased sea surface temperatures and sea level      anticipating GCC
                                rise.                                                 impacts
                                                                                    0 Strengthened forest


                                                       11

                                                                                management and soil
                                                                                conservation efforts
  Strengthen national         Strengthening countries participation inMEAs      Reduced transaction
  capacity to implement    0  Promotion o f synergies between conventions.      cost
  multiple Multi-lateral                                                    0   Improved
  environmental                                                                 coordination
  agreements (MEA)                                                          0   Increased local
  obligations with an                                                           capacity to implement
  integrated and holistic                                                       MEAs
  operational framework                                                    I                         I


29.    Component Three: Strengthen national capacity to implement multiple Multi-
lateral environmental agreements (MEA) (total cost US0.78 million; GEF US$ 0.2
million). This component, (mostly be financed by third party and counterpart contributions),
would finance goods and services required to develop and establish the building blocks for
addressing multiple convention objectives as adopted by the three governments and promoted
by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Convention on
Biological Diversity (CBD) and United Nations Convention to combat desertification and
drought (UNCCD). To this end the project will support:
       Sub-component I Development o f a harmonized national reporting framework (Le.,
                           -
       legal, institutional and management structures) by each Participating Country that
       integrates climate change, biodiversity and land degradation obligations under the
       United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Convention on
       Biological Diversity, and the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification and
       Drought, coordinated among the three ParticipatingCountries.
       Sub-component 2       - Provision o f technical assistance by IUCN to Participating
       Countries to develop a single report using the harmonized national reporting framework
       referredto inPart 3.1 above.
       Sub-component 3 Testing o f the application o f the harmonized framework, referred to
                           -
       in Part 3.1 above, in relation to specific adaptation measures under Part 2 of this
       Project.

30.    Component Four: Project Management (total cost US$ 0.82 m, GEF funding US$
0.2 m). This component will support:
       Sub-component I Overall technical coordination o f Project Activities (including the
                            -
       implementation o f a technical monitoring system) as well as the administrative and
       financial management o f the Project, and annual audits;
       Sub-component 2      - Operational expenditures directly related to the implementation,
       management and monitoring o f the Project (which expenditure would not have been
       incurred absent the Project), consisting o f equipment lease and maintenance, utilities,
       office and scientific supplies and equipment, communications, vehicle hel, bank charges,
       travel and per diem o f Project staff, and salaries o f core Project staff (Project coordinator,
       procurement specialist, and other required personnel for the Project management) hired
       for the duration o f the Project, but excluding salaries o f any permanent staff o f the
       Recipient. Under this component a communication strategy o f the results o f the project
       will also be developed for communicating the results o f the project to other projects and
       to distribute information. The elements o f the strategy include the upgrading o f the web
       site o f the CCCCC, the development o f a monthly electronic and printed newsletter, the


                                                   12

        participation in global and regional fora on adaptation, and the publication o f the
        description o f the pilots and o f the lessons learned inadequate technical journals.

3 1.     Sector issues addressed by the project
The project addresses key vulnerabilities as identified in the National Communications Climate
Change Adaptation Policy, and National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan that have been
developed and approved by each country. The project also addresses the need for a more
integrated and holistic approach to adaptation that incorporates biodiversity and land degradation
issues o f national significance, thereby strengthening the national capacity to address multiple
MEA commitments as articulated inthe national capacity self assessment (NCSA) process. The
project contributes to the integration o f climate change adaptation into land use planning and
management, biodiversity conservation, forestry and protected areas management, water
resource and watershed management, coastal zone management, and promotes community-based
management practices that support national sustainable development objectives. More
importantly, the results o f the specific pilots will be used to inform and influence the adoption o f
climate resilient sustainable development policies.

4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design

32.      Implementation of adaptation measures to address the vulnerability of natural
resources to Climate Change requires community support and ownership to be effective.
Although the region has limited experience in the implementation o f specific pilot adaptation
measures, previous activities in planning and institutional capacity building have indicated the
importance o f empowering communities. All adaptation activities will inevitably involve
implementation at the community level and therefore community-based organizations must be
empowered to ensure their effective participation since the studies and design stages, to assume
ownership o f these measures and to actively partner for implementation and operation o f each
adaptation initiative.

33.      Climate resilient sustainable development will require the adoption of policies that
promote sustainable use of natural resources in the face of climate impacts. It is thus
essential that the field activities (pilots) be used to inform and influence the adoption o f policies.
This i s a desired output under the project.

34.      Climate change adaptation requires an integrated, holistic and collaborative
approach. The sectoral approach to previous adaptation activities has identified specific
vulnerabilities in a variety o f sectors including water, health, agriculture, the financial sector,
coastal infrastructure, and coastal resources. This groundwork has made it possible to pilot
adaptation measures that demonstrate the usefulness and effectiveness o f natural resources
integrated approaches, which encompass activities formulated through these sectoral studies,
while furthering an "Islands System Management" approach.

35.      Strengthening capacities to reduce climate change risk also enhances national
capacity to address biodiversity and land degradation issues. The National Capacity Self
Assessment (NCSA) processes that are being undertaken inthe three participating countries have
highlighted a number o f synergies, as well as overlaps between the Rio conventions.



                                                    13

Additionally, studies under this program have highlighted the limited capacities at the national
and local level to address complex multi-convention issues, and the need to strengthen specific
legal and institutional frameworks which are essential if these MEAs are to be effectively
implemented. This project strengthens specific national and local capacities which are necessary
for effective adaptation planning and the management o f biodiversity conservation and land
degradation issues.

36.       Climate change adaptation is a long-term venture. As illustrated by the work in
adaptation to climate change in the Caribbean, many years o f continuous work are required to
establish the basis for successful adaptation programs. It i s clear for all agencies that the project
i s the first step o f a long haul process and therefore long-term commitments are required to meet
the challenges o f adaptation to climate change.

37.       Lessons learnedfromother Projects:
World Bank involvement in adaptation was initiated in the Latin America region with the
formulation o f the CPACC (Caribbean Planning for Adaptation to Climate Change) Project in
 1997, an enabling activity o f regional nature. It focused on the vulnerability o f the islandnations
o f the Caribbean to the impacts of climate change. These efforts continue with M A C C and the
Implementation o f Adaptation Measures in Coastal Zones Project, now under formulation. To
date, work on adaptation in the Caribbean constitutes the most comprehensive approach
Bankwide, from where valuable lessons can be derived.

38.       The process of adaptation in the Caribbean. Figure 1 presents a description o f the
long-term adaptation process, undertaken through the Bank and emphasizing the relationship
between previous work under CPACC and ACCC, the ongoing M A C C Project, and the
Implementation o f Adaptation Measures in Coastal Zones Project. It also indicates that this is a
long-term and continuous effort to face what constitutes an ever-growing threat to the
sustainability o f the region. Together, these activities correspond to the stages o f adaptation
envisioned under the Conference o f Parties' (COP'S) guidance to the GEF.' CPACC (Stage I)
focused on building awareness to climate change issues among public officials and the political
sector, and initiating the process o f strengthening the knowledge base. M A C C (Stage 11) supports
further capacity building, facilitates the formulation o f an enabling environment for adaptation
and the formulation o f adaptation measures. The project will fund specific adaptation measures
and thus corresponds to a pilot Stage 111.

39.      Overall, CPACC has made a significant contribution towards enhancing regional and
national capabilities for preparing for the advent Global Climate Change. It has also helped the
region in articulating positions at international forums such as COPS and its subsidiary bodies
and allowed the identification o f the need to mainstream decisions on adaptive capacity and
adaptation actions within the economic planninginthe region.

40.      ACCC: The Adapting to C h a f e Change in the Caribbean (ACCC) Project was
implemented in 12 CARICOM member countries from September 2001 to August 2004. The
project was designed to maintain momentum on climate change issues after CPACC and to lead
into MACC. The ACCC project built on the initial experience gained through the CPACC
project, and addressed key areas identified as priorities in building regional and national



                                                   14

institutional capacity in the 12 participating Caribbean countries. This project, funded by the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), served, in part, as a bridge between
CPACC and the MainstreamingAdaptation to Climate Change inthe Caribbean (MACC) project
for which it contributed an integral component.

41.     MACC: The Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change in the Caribbean (MACC)
Project was designed to follow on CPACC's achievements, picking up where the project ended
and providing a strong linkage between the stages o f adaptation envisioned by the convention.
The main Project's global objective is to facilitate the creation o f an enabling environment for
climate change adaptation in CARICOM small islands and coastal developing states. The project
complements the goals o f the M A C C project by piloting the implementation o f adaptation
measures in countries that have already taken mainstreaming decisions. Likewise, the lessons
learned in the implementation o f the pilots will be linked to the process o f policy making by
informing and influence the adoption o f climate resilient policies. M A C C does not finance
implementation o f Adaptation-- it supports fine tuning the local knowledge base so that planners
can make more precise analyses to recommend adaptation measures to policy makers and as a
result mainstream CC into national development planning--this includes being able to carry our
cost benefit analyses on adaptation options. The outputs o f M A C C will further inform adaptation
actions in the future. All the adaptation policies developed in the region are designed in such a
way that MACC outputs, the result o f a better understanding o f the science o f CC in the
Caribbean, can be used as a basis o f adjusting those policies.

                      Figure 1.Activities on adaptation to climate change in the Caribbean'




                                                  MACC                   SPACC           Adaptation

                              ACCC            Creating an enabling
                                               environment for
              CPACC                               adaptation


          Building awareness
          and strengthening
            knowledge base



                                                                                     -Policy framework for
                                                                                     adaptation in place
                                                                                      Projects being implemented.
                                           ---
                                           * Developing national policy               Awareness and participation

                                          framework for adaptation.                  high.
                                              Mainstreaming climate change issues     Monitoring, analysis and
                                           into key sector activities.               planning integrated
                                              Preparation of pilot adaptation        throughout ail national and

         Building Awareness.               projects.                                 sectoral planning.

       - Building monitoring and analysis     Further strengthening of awareness
          capability                       andparticipation.
         Building planning capacity in        Further strengthening of knowledge
          institutions                     base




 Deeb, A. CaribbeanPlanningfor Adaptation to Global Climate Change, in Adaptation Mosaic. World Bank. 2004


                                                                15

5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

42.     Several approaches were considered. In particular, the initial selection o f specific
measures versus the selection o f sites was analyzed. The site approach allows for the selection o f
high priority areas, based on biodiversity and land degradation issues, and facilitates the
implementation o f interventions that integrate the relations between the community, the
environment and the associated changes imposed by global warming. This approach was not
viable due to lack o f information to compare alternatives.

43.     The project design initially focused on the identification o f pilot sites where adaptation
measures could be developed and implemented at the local level. However, during the series o f
national consultations, it became apparent that: (a) the national enabling environment needed to
be strengthened if the project outcomes were to be sustainable; and (b) additional enabling
activities were needed to strengthen local and community capacities. The final project design
reflects an approach whereby both these elements have become essential components to
ensure the sustainability of project interventions and outcomes.

44.     Additionally, the project has focused on addressing climate change risk within the
context o f community development planning, thus making it possible to address multi-MEA
issues in a manner that achievements could be clearly demonstrated, and therefore could best
be replicated to other local area "hotspots". The adoption o f a community-based approach to
adaptation has proven to be a sound way to demonstrate linkages with biodiversity and land
degradation issues, while providing communities and governments with the necessary tools and
techniques to make progress on their sustainable development paths in a holistic and integrated
manner.

45.     Finally, the focus o f the project on solely global commons was also rejected. The
economies o f the participating countries depend primarilyon their natural resource bases, which
are affected by climate change. It was concluded that for any adaptation measure to achieve
sustainability required the full commitment from national and local stakeholders. Therefore local
benefits were thought to produce the required incentives for community involvement,
participation and commitment. The dual focus o f the project on global commons and on the most
vulnerable sectors guarantees that local vulnerabilities and priorities are being addressed at the
same time thanglobal commons.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnership arrangements
    0   Meteorological Research Institute (MRI)of Japan. Under an agreement dated July 11,
        2006, between the CCCCC and the MRI, support will be provided to CCCCC for
        purposes o f the objectives sought under the sub-components l.l(b) and 2.l(a).
        Specifically, MRIwill provide data from the Earth Simulator for use in the development
        o f local climate scenarios and selection o f adaptation measures, training and scientific
        exchanges.
    0   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). Under the Earth
        Observation Partnership for the Americas, NOAA i s expected to assist in the remote



                                                 16

         sensingof environmental changes inthe Caribbeanbasin which would inform the process
         o f adaptation.
         International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN): Under a partnership
         agreement with the CCCCC (signed inAugust 2006), IUCNwill assist inthe financing of
         sub-component 3.2 of the Project, through facilitation of scientific expertise to monitor
         climate impacts on biodiversity and identify indicators to biodiversity that are climate
         related.
         Governmentof Italy. Under a memorandum of understandingbetween the GO1and the
         CCCCC, dated December 15, 2004, the GO1 has agreed to provide the CCCCC with
         financial assistance, which will support the CCCCC's operation and management of the
         project.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

46.      ImplementationPeriod:The Grant is expectedto become effective by December 2006,
for a four year period up to December 2010 (expected project completion date).

47.      Generalimplementationarrangements:The GEF grant recipient will bethe Caribbean
Community Climate Change Center (CCCCC) which will manage the grant resources as
implementingagency. The CCCCC (see Annex 7) is a legal entity of the CaribbeanCommunity
(CARICOM). Project implementation will be the responsibility o f the CCCCC, which will be
assisted by a national coordinator of each participating country. The CCCCC8 will house the
project-related accounting, financial management and overall reporting and carry out
procurement-related activities for the project. The CCCCC's accounting and financial
management capacity is rated as adequateto support the project, and its procurement capacity is
rated as sufficient.



                    MACC                                    Implementationof AdaptationMeasuresin Coastal
                                                                                      Zones
   1.  Mainstream climate issues into policies; I          r
   2.  Public Education Outreach (PEO):                     1. Informand influence climate resilient naturalresource
       Development o f methodology;                            use policies;
   3.  Sector studies developed for agriculture,            2. Methodology applied at community level for planning,
       health and water sectors;                               designing, implementing and operating pilots;
   4.  Economic analysis: methodology            APPLY      3, Pilot measures identificationandcharacterization;
       developed;
   5.  Developed EIA guide applicable to                    4. Test applicability of the methodology to assess cost and
                                                               benefits of adaptation measures;
       proposedpilots;
   6.  Future climate scenarios developed;                  5. EIA guide applied for each adaptation measure

   7.  Strategies and action plans developed for          I 6. Uses scenarios developed inMACC;.
       adaptation to climate change;              INFORM    7. Pilots influencetheadoptionandimplementation of
   8.  Dissemination o f climate change data;                  strategiesand action plans;
   9.  Development o f adaptation approaches                8. Data collected from pilots complement dissemination
       to food security, water, health and                     processunder MACC;
       fisheries;                               -           9. Implementation o fapproaches as part of pilots;



  The CCCCC has acquired invaluable experience in implementing Bank-funded projects through its implementing
agency role in the PDF-B phase o f the Project and an enhanced understanding of the Bank's procurement and
financial management regulations and systems. In addition, The CCCCC will be able to draw on considerable
capacity infinancial management resident inthe CARICOM's secretariat.


                                                       17

48.     The CCCCC will retain support staff to manage the development and implementation o f
country-level, site-specific climate change adaptation measures. Project implementation is
expected to be shared and carried out within a collaborative framework by CCCCC, the three
PCs and the international, regional and national agencies, and will involve partnerships at the
international level. A national coordinator assigned by each country will be responsible for the
following activities: developing a work plan to undertake national level activities and integrate
with regional activities; coordinating national level activities; liaising with local communities to
design and implement site specific activities; developing TORS for the national level activities;
assisting the CCCCC in the selection and management o f consultants; assisting with the
monitoring and evaluation o f national level project activities; preparing monthly progress reports
for submission to the CCCCC; and ensuring the timely executiono f community level activities.

49.     Implementation of the project. The CCCCC will administer the project from its
headquarters inBelize. The Implementation Unit o f the project will be located in Saint Lucia. In
each island a National Coordinator will be responsible for local project implementation. The
Government o f Italy will be providing support for project management and the Government o f
Belize will be providing support for the operation, logistics and maintenance o f the center. The
participating countries will be providing the costs o f the national coordination. The project does
not contribute resources to the hnctioning o f the center.

3. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomeshesults

50.     The CCCCC will be responsible for the overall monitoring and evaluation o f the project.
The national coordinator will assist the CCCCC inthe design and implementation o f site specific
monitoring measures to record baseline information against which the effectiveness o f project
supported adaptation measures can be evaluated. A detailed monitoring and evaluation guideline
and system will be hrther developed in the Operational Manual o f the project which will be
produced before effectiveness. The CCCCC will submit bi-annual project progress reports
demonstrating the project development, the financial and physical performance indicators. The
Bank will conduct supervision missions to jointly review progress made against objectives and
performance indicators. Regular monitoring o f project activities will be the responsibility o f the
CCCCC, which will prepare semi-annual reports on the implementationprogress.

51,     Mid-term review will be carried out about 24 months after the Project Start, to review o f
the progress o f the project and to evaluate the project's implementation arrangements. The
CCCCC will, not later than one month before the date o f such review, carry out an independent
evaluation o f progress. The mid term reviews will also take into consideration how the enabling
environment created under M A C C has facilitated the activities initiated under the project. During
the midterm review an assessment will be made on: a) the suitability o f the performance
indicators, refining these if necessary; and b) the lessons learned from implementation o f pilots
as inputs for the adoption o f climate resilient sustainable development sector policies.

4. Sustainability and Replicability

52.     Sustainability. The national consultations that identified the proposed pilot activities
were broad-based and involved the political and administrative leadership o f key government



                                                  18

ministries, the national climate change committees, and representatives o f local communities in
the pilot areas. This would promote future resource management, physical planning and risk
management decisions. The cost benefit analysis to be undertaken as part o f the design phase o f
each pilot will be essential to demonstrate national and local benefits to Governments and
communities and to establish a sound basis for further replication. Finally, the project will be
implemented within an enabling framework o f approved policies, strategies and plans.

53.     M A C C is contributing to sustainability by creating the environment for policy dialogue,
facilitating the selection o f pilot sites, promoting community participation, and creating the
awareness required to foster community ownership. The project will support the continuous
strengthening o f the CCCCC supported by previous climate change related activities. The
Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change project i s being executed by the CCCCC, and the
new operation will facilitate coordination and complementarity, as well as the Center's
consolidation and regional leading institution in leading the adaptation to climate change. At the
Mid term review for MACC, a decision is likely to be taken to move its implementation to the
center, thus consolidating and strengthening the linkage betweenthese projects.

54.     Replicability. At the Caribbean region level, where the project will create knowledge (at
regional institutions and country level),        databases, and community-based participatory
approaches will be used to extend the vulnerability and risk assessments and adaptation strategy
formulation to other countries. Also, the participatory community-based approach to adaptation
planning and management will be replicated and bring useful lessons to other countries, in
particular, the Pacific SIDS, -which face similar capacity constraints. Further, the functional
linkages that were forged between the Caribbean and the Pacific regions during the
implementation of the CPACC, ACCC and PICCAP projects and the regular attendance o f
MACC and CCCCC personnel at the Conference o f the Parties (COP) to the UNFCC will assist
in the dissemination o f lessons learned and substantially aid the replication effort. Finally, the
pilot adaptation measures will inform, the process o f implementing adaptation policies.

55.     Global learning value. The pilots supported under the project will inform the global
community on the benefits and costs o f adaptation incoastal zones. The design, implementation
and results will be o f value to many island nations facing similar challenges. These nations,
many in the Caribbean basin, will observe the results and likely apply the lessons learned from
the project. To foster the global learning value, the project will sponsor an annual workshop on
adaptation measures in coastal zones, inviting representatives from other insular and coastal
regions in the Caribbean basin and elsewhere and prepare a dissemination strategy. The
workshop will take place in one o f the participating countries and will enable the other members
o f SIDS to visit the project sites. Proceedings from the workshops will be posted inthe CCCCC
web site. Descriptions o f the pilots and the lessons learned will be published in adequate
technical journals.




                                                  19

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

               Risk               Rating                                 Mitigation
 Overarching macroeconomic /      Moderate MFrestructuringhas achieved satisfactory status inDominica.
 fiscal vulnerability remains a            Project resources have been committed (letter from Ministries of
 key riskinall participating               Finance) by time o f appraisal. Nonetheless, the SIDS economies
 countries, especially in                  remainhighly vulnerable to external fluctuations and natural
 Dominica.                                 hazards. Counterpart funding, the vast majority o f which will be in
                                           the form o f in-kindcontributions, will be confirmed prior to
                                           submission to Board. GEF funding activities are 100%GEF
                                           funded.
 Giventhe long-term nature o f    Low      Continuedpolitical support is likely. The region has engaged ina
 adaptation measures, there is             long term strategy on adaptation, and it is at the forefront o f
 the riskthat future                       internationalprocess to address adaptation as defined by UNFCCC.
 administrations may not                   (CPACC, ACCC, MACC). The region has developed a stable
 support the activities under the          institutional framework (Climate Change Center) demonstrating its
 project.                                  long term commitment.

 Mainstreaming climate change     Moderate The adoption o f the integrated ecosystem approach will highlights
 issues inthe productive sector            the benefits accruing to the entire island. Given the relevance o f
 i s not a priority.                       these ecosystems to social development and productive sectors, and
                                           the statedpriority of the selected pilot sites, it is unlikely that
                                           policy makers will ignore the issue. A communications strategy is
                                           part o f the project activities and will be used to ensure that the
                                           linkage between climate andpolicy remains at the center o f
                                           discussions on climate change. The CCCCC will also be involved
                                           intheprocess ofmainstreaming ofclimate issuesintopolicy andis
                                           also incharge o f developing the regional position on climate under
                                           the existing MACC project. The focus o f the MACC project is the
                                           mainstreaming o f climate into policy.
 Technically viable adaptation    Low      Technical support to the project by key international partners
 initiatives to address                    (IUCN, Government o f Italy, MRIof Japan) will facilitate access
 biodiversity and land                     to leading international expertise that will assist inthe
 degradation issues at the                 identification and evaluation o f technically and scientifically sound
 community level may prove                 adaptation options.
 difficult to identify and
 implement
 Limited project management       High     A well defined project management system hasbeenestablished
 capabilities might delay pilot            through a detailed OM and PIP for the selection o f skilled
 implementation and restrict               individuals; implementation o f a well defined project monitoring
 full benefits development.                system; management commitment; andclose Banksupervision.

 There is a lack o f experience   Moderate There is a well developed consensus on the need to involve local
 o f planning with and including           communities inselecting, planning and managingthe proposed
 community participation inthe             pilot adaptation initiatives. The project management structure has
 decision making process.                  been defined to incorporate local communities as important sources
                                           o f information and accountability to local implementing agents.


 Non-adoption / no                Moderate Communities have been involved since project conception, have
 implementation o f adaptation             actively participated inproject design and selection, and will be
 measuresdue o f lack o f local            actively involved inproject implementation. All measureshave
 support and commitment.                   been selected taking into account the potential co-benefits for the
                                           local communities. These benefits offer a strong incentive for the
                                           local communities support and commitment.




                                                      20

Overall Risk: Moderate.

56.      Controversial aspects: There are no controversial aspects related to the project in terms
o f fiduciary responsibilities, nor o f negative impacts on local communities.

6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants

57.      Conditions before Board submission: Participation agreements have been drafted
between the recipienthmplementing agency (CCCCC) and the governments o f the participating
countries.
Condition of effectiveness: Because the participation agreements will be signed at the same
time than the grant agreement, the parties must provide evidence that the respective participation
agreements havebeen duly authorized or ratified for effectiveness.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and financial analyses

58.      The guidelines of the GEF Strategic Priority "Piloting an operational approach to
adaptation" (SPA) require the establishment o f "pilot or demonstration projects to show how
adaptation planning and assessment can be practically translated into national policy and
sustainable development planning." Also, "activities should be country-driven, cost-effective and
integrated into national sustainable development and poverty reduction strategies." The SPA
requires that the majority o f benefits translate into protection o f global biodiversity and
prevention o f landdegradation.

59.      The project's economic efficiency i s demonstrated by: (a) the pilot nature o f the project
which provides efficiency as it saves learning cost, evaluates design assumptions, and permits
adjustments o f the measures before its replication at a national level; (b) the preliminary
economic analysis o f a selected adaptation measure in each component will assess economic
benefits and costs as a selection criteria; and, (c) the procurement procedures adopted by the
project will favor minimumcost for significant acquisition o f goods and services.

60.      A preliminary economic analysis o f selected adaptation measures ineach component will
be undertaken to illustrate the economic efficiency o f the type o f adaptation measures coveredby
the project. The analysis will assess direct economic benefits and costs associated with the
adaptation measures applying standard economic methodology. Following previous experiences
it is expected that the cost-benefit ratio for each measure will show higher economic benefits
than cost in all cases. Economic analyses o f proposed adaptation measures will be undertaken as
part o f the design process (Component I).Inthe economic analysis consideration will be given
to the long term character o f the expected benefits and costs. Community, national and sectoral
benefits will be identified and quantified as part o f the analysis. An incremental cost analysis and
an accounting o f local and global benefits will also be included. A financial analysis will be
conducted as part o f the selection process for site specific adaptation measures, which will guide
the decision-making process for the identification o f appropriate and economic efficient




                                                   21

interventions. Duringproject implementation data will be gathered to assess actual benefits and
costs o fpilot measures.

2. Technical

61.     The SIDS are particularly vulnerable to the impacts o f climate change and, are being
assisted with capacity building initiatives for adaptation to climate change impacts. The GEF-
funded National Capacity Self Assessment (NCSA) project is assisting the three participating
Caribbean countries in assessing constraints in regard to the implementation o f the Rio
Conventions.

62.     This project seeks to demonstrate the costs and benefits o f adaptation measures. It will
build capacity at the local, national and regional level to implement measures within a holistic
and integrated "Island Systems Management" approach seeking to balance human social
development within the carrying capacity of the island ecosystem as a whole. The project will
promote a participatory community-based approach to ecosystem management that addresses
climate change vulnerability within a holistic framework for resource management that addresses
biodiversity conservation and land degradation issues within local development contexts.
Agreements reached with the MRI center inJapan, will allow for the use o f the data generated by
the EarthSimulator to be used for the characterization o f future climate scenarios.

3. Fiduciary

63.     Financial Management. A financial management assessment o f CCCCC was
undertaken. The assessment pointed to several gaps in CCCCC's financial management and
accounting system relating to CCCCC's accounting system, staffing o f the Accounting Unit,
auditing arrangements and operations manual. On the basis o f the assessment, a financial
management action plan has been agreed with the Management o f CCCCC which endorsed the
action plan.The action planhas been implemented.

64.     Auditing Arrangements. The audit reports will be prepared in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing following Terms o f Reference (TORS) satisfactory to the
World Bank. The audit reports would include supporting schedules providing sufficient
information on the Sources and Uses o f Funds, Statement o f Expenditures (SOE) and the Special
Account pertaining to the GEF Grant. As the CCCCC i s currently managing two grants financed
by the World Bank for which audit reports will need to be provided, and since only a single
(entity) audit would be performed, the terms of reference for the audits would specifically
include language to ensure that a separate opinion and financial statement for each grant be
included.

65.     Disbursement Arrangements. The disbursements under the Project would be
transaction based. Disbursements will be made on the basis o f full documentation, provided in
advance, for all expenditures above the prior review threshold. For all other eligible
expenditures, goods costing less than US$50,000 contracts for consulting firms costing less than
US$50,000 and for contracts for individual consultants costing less than US$25,000
disbursement would be on the basis o f SOEs. For expenditures made on the basis o f SOEs,



                                                 22

CCCCC would maintain the supporting documentation for the expenditures for review by the
World Bank and by independent auditors.

66.     Procurement: The procurement arrangements and plans have been reviewed with the
CCCCC and are included inthe Operational Manual (OM). The CCCCC will be responsible and
would follow StandardBank Procedures for all project procurement. Financial management staff
from the CCCCC has received training in the Bank's procurements policies, procedures and
guidelines. An 18 month procurement plan and procedures i s included in the OM. Procurement
would include consulting services, goods, civil works and non-consulting services (see Annex 9).

4. Social

67.     N o major adverse social impacts are expected as a result o f this project given the nature
o f the activities and interventions (pilot subprojects). Any adaptation measures that are
implemented will only be done once appropriated interventions have been identified by local
communities. The local communities have actively participated in the design o f these pilot
projects, and are keen to take an active role inthe development and implementation o f measures
that will increase community resilience to climate change.

68.     Consultation. The design and selection o f specific adaptation measures is the result o f a
comprehensive consultation process that included local, national and regional discussions with
ample participation o f relevant stakeholders. These discussions are documented and minutes are
archived in project files. The process o f consulting and deciding upon adaptation measures was
initiated with the preparation o f the Initial National Communications in 2001. During
consultations undertaken under the PDF-B the adaptation measures were finally refined and
priority identified. The national and regional consultation conducted in each o f the participating
countries o f the project selected the specific adaptation measures to demonstrate the benefits and
costs o f adaptation activities. The selection process was based on the National Communications,
Issues Papers for all OECS, and the National Climate Adaptation Policies in St. Vincent, Saint
Lucia, Dominica, and criteria defined under the SPA.

5. Environment

69.     N o major adverse environmental impacts are expected as a result o f this project. The
project will not support measures that may have a significant environmental impact (no category
A). Minor environmental impacts might be expected from some on the ground investments.
EIAS will be undertaken prior to any physical intervention and results will be disclosed 60 days
prior to start up o f activities. The OM includes an environmental framework in compliance with
OP/BO/GP 4.01. An Environmental Assessment will be performed as part o f the preparation o f
each adaptation measures.




                                                  23

         I                 Figure 3. Schematic of the consultation process under the project
                                              Consultation and DecisionProcess                                          1

                                                                       NationalClimate
                National                 Issues Papers for            Adaptation Policies               Key adaptation
            Communications                   all OECS                 inSt. Vincent, Saint                 measures
             for all OECS                                               Lucia, Dominica

            Identification of              Anticipated                Inventoryofpolicies              Pilot measures to
           key vulnerabilities           impacts or issues             requiredto address              demonstratethe
               andGHG                        causedby                  anticipated impacts             benefits andcosts
               inventory                  climatechange                                                  of adaptation
                                                                                                           activities
         l                    I        I                  I

             Supportedby                   Supportedby                   Supportedby                   Supportedby the
                                                                      CPACC and MACC




6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)
  Cultural Property (OPN 11-03, being revised as OP 4.11)
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
  IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)
  Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)
  Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                     [ I                    [XI
70.      Compliance with OP/BO/GP 4.01 will be assured through the development and review of
EIA for each adaptation measure. An environmental analysis framework has been developed.
The EIA and the corresponding EMP will be reviewed as part o f the WE activities.

7. Policy Exceptionsand Readiness

71.      N o policy exceptions are required. The participation agreements between the Recipient
and the participating countries will be signed and executed at the same time as the signing o f the
Grant Agreement betweenthe Recipient and the Bank.




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputedareas


                                                            24

                    Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
IMPLEMENTATION OF ADAPTATION MEASURES INCOASTAL ZONES PROJECT

1.      The project has been designed and the specific measures have been selected through an
extensive process o f consultation, which has included both local (community level), national and
regional meetings with stakeholders, including the private sector and government authorities.

2.      The three participating countries have all ratified the UNFCCC, UNCCD, and UNCBD.
These governments have recognized the interconnection between terrestrial and marine
ecosystems, and have adopted an "Islands Systems Management" approach to natural resource
management that seeks to balance human social development within the carrying capacity o f the
island ecosystem as a whole. However, the limited capacities o f the participating countries have
been overextended by continued pressures to manage ecosystems and resources on a sectoral
basis, an approach that continues to be promoted inthe implementation o f MEAs.

3.      Additionally, the GEF-funded National Capacity Self Assessment (NCSA) project i s
currently assisting the three participating countries in assessing capacity constraints in regard to
the implementation o f the Rio Conventions. The initial stocktaking and evaluation o f synergies
that has been undertaken in Dominica and Saint Lucia highlights the limited capacities o f these
countries to implement multiple MEA obligations within the sectoral approach that remains the
focus o f these conventions. Additionally, the NCSA program has highlighted the need for
improved interagency co-ordination and collaboration at the national level in order to achieve
meaningful progress at implementingmultiple MEA obligations.

4.      Thus far, none o f the enabling activities under the UNFCCC, the CBD nor the UNCCD
has assisted the three PCs in establishing an integrated, holistic and coordinated legal and
institutional framework to address multiple MEA issues. This failing, together with the absence
o f mechanisms to promote greater community-based participation in MEA implementation
remain among the key impediments to effective achievement o f multiple MEA requirements and
national sustainable development agendas.

5.      Additional significant commitment and action on the part o f the three participating
countries has been demonstrated through the adoption o f two key MEAs, namely:
(a)     the "St George Declaration of Principlesfor Environmental Sustainability in the OECS"
        by the Ministers o f Environment o f Antigua and Barbuda, Anguilla, The Commonwealth
        o f Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia         and St. Vincent and the
        Grenadines on the 10thApril 2001; and
(b)     the Barbados Program of Action concluded at the United Nations Global Conference on
        the Sustainable Development o f Small IslandDeveloping States (1994).

6.      These agreements are particularly relevant to this project as they affirm the governments'
commitment to implement specific measures to address climate change, biodiversity
conservation, and landdegradation.




                                                 25

7.       Inthe area of climate change: Principle 8 of the St. George's Declaration requires each
Member State to establish appropriate and relevant integrated strategies, plans and policies to
adapt and respond adequately and in a timely fashion to the causes and impacts o f climate
change, and collaborate at the regional and international levels, in the implementation o f
obligations under the United Nations Framework Conventionon Climate Change.

8.       Section 19 A. o f the Barbados Program of Action concluded at the United Nations
Global Conference on the Sustainable Development o f Small Island Developing States requires
States to undertake, amongst other measures, the following actions, policies and measures at the
national level:
(i)      Formulate comprehensive adjustment (adaptation) and mitigation policies for sea-level
         rise in the context of integrated coastal zone management;
(ii)     Map areas vulnerable to sea-level rise and develop computer-based information systems
         covering the results of surveys, assessments and observations as part of the development
         of adequate responsestrategies, adaptation policies and measures to minimize the impact
         of climate change, climate variability and sea-level rise;
(iii)    Improvepublic andpolitical understanding of thepotential impacts of climate change.

9.       In the area of land degradation, Principle 11 of the St. George's Declaration requires
each Member State to:
(a) Manage     ...terrestrial ......resources,organisms and eco-systems in an appropriate manner to
     obtain the optimum sustainable productivity, while maintaining the integrity of natural and
     ecologicalprocesses and inter-relationships betweensuch systems andprocesses.
(b) Design, promote and implement measures to prevent, mitigate and control degradation of
     terrestrial ...quality andprocesses conducive to desertijkation.
(c) Work together, in collaboration with Civil Society, to promote and facilitate improved
    national and regional capability for the management of natural resources.
(d) Take all necessary measures within its legal and policy framework, including enactment of
    new legislation where appropriate, to ensure the conservation and management of natural
    resources are treated as an integral part of developmentplanning at all stages and levels.

10.      Section 29 A. o f the Barbados Program of Action requires States to implement, amongst
other measures, the following actions, policies and measures at the national level:
 (i)     Develop, maintain and protect watershed areas, irrigation systems, distribution networks
          and appropriate catchment systems and promote effective programmes for water
          conservation and prevention o f water contamination through, inter alia, the development
          of integrated national water plans, the use of appropriate incentives and regulatory
          measures,     community       involvement   in management      and conservation,   forest
          management and reforestation and investment strategies.
 (ii)Strengthen procedures to monitor and respond to the impacts of natural and
          environmental hazards, in particular the impacts o f climate change and climate
          variability, including drought and sea-level rise, on water resources.
 (iii)Strengthennationalcapacitiestomakedecisionsbetweencompetingdemandsoverthe
          allocation o f limited water resources.




                                                    26

11.      Section 34 A. o f the Barbados Program of Action requires States to implement, amongst
other measures, the following actions, policies and measures at the national level:
(i)      Develop and improve national databases and the dissemination o f information to relevant
         groups, especially local communities, youth and women, for land-use planning and
        management, including estimates o f carrying capacity, economic and environmental
         value o f land resources, along with appropriate decision-making tools, such as
         land/geographic information systems.
(ii)     Prepare and/or review land-use plans in conjunction with agricultural, forestry, mining,
         tourism, traditional land-use practices and other land-use policies, with a view to
         formulating comprehensive land-use plans and zoning so as to protect land resources,
         ensure sustainable and productive land-use and guard against land degradation, pollution
         and exceeding island carrying capacity.
(iii)    Support appropriate afforestation and reforestation programmes, with appropriate
         emphasis on natural regeneration and participation o f land owners, to ensure watershed
         and coastal protection and reduce landdegradation.

12.      In the area of biodiversity conservation Principle 13 of the St. George's Declaration
requires each Member State to:
(a)      Pursue appropriate measures to conserve and, where necessary, restore biological
         diversity, including species diversity, genetic diversity within species and ecosystem
         diversity.
(b)     Manage biological resources to ensure their conservation, sustainable use and possible
         restoration.

13.      Section 45 A. o f the Barbados Program of Action requires States to implement, amongst
other measures, the following actions, policies and measures at the national level:
(i)     Formulate and implement integrated strategiesfor the conservation and sustainable use
         of terrestrial and marine biodiversity, in particular] endemic species, including
        protection from the introduction of certain non-indigenous species and identification of
         sites of high biological significancefor the conservation of biological diversity and/orfor
         eco-tourism and other sustainable development opportunities, such as sustainable
         agriculture, training and research.
(ii)    Promote community support for the conservation of biological diversity and the
         designation of protected areas through concentration on educational strategies that
         increase awareness of the signijicance of biodiversity conservation and particularly the
        fundamental importance of a diverse biological resource base to resource-owning
         communities;
(iii)    Support the involvement of NGOs, women, indigenous people, and other major groups,
         as well as fishing communities and farmers in the conservation and sustainable use of
         biodiversity and biotechnology.

14.      Additionally, each signatory State also recognized, under Principle 20, the obligations
and objectives o f the St. George's Declaration and put in place the necessary mechanisms to
fulfill their commitments to implementing this Declaration. A list o f indicative actions and
output indicators was included under Principle 20 and broken down between national, regional
and international levels. By doing this, the States committed themselves to initiate a process o f



                                                  27

active collaboration between the signatory States, including the joint preparation and
implementation o f the OECS Environmental Management Strategy (finalized in March 2002 and
approved by the OECS Ministers o f Environment Policy Committee in July 2002), and
associated National Environmental Management Strategies (NEMS), the latter scheduled for
finalization in late 2005, The aforementioned OECS Environmental Management Strategy
suggests indicative actions needed to reduce vulnerability to climate change, for the conservation
o f the OECS countries' biological resources, and to address the causes o f land degradation.

15.     Nationalconsultationprocess under the PDFB:
The national consultations were conducted as whole day sessions between September and
October 2005 in each participating country. The initial presentations focused on the importance
o f adaptation to GCC to the participating countries because of their high vulnerability to the
impacts o f GCC. At the same time the readiness o f the participating countries for implementing
specific adaptation measures with regard to institutional and climate change policy efforts
already undertakenwas stressed. The presentations by the CCCCC and the World Bank indicated
the selection criteria that the stakeholders needed to consider in the selection process o f the first
pilots in order to be eligible under the new GEF window. The stakeholders formed working
groups and identified possible adaptation pilots based on the presented selection criteria and on
perceived and documented vulnerabilities to GCC. The national consultation ended with the
presentation by the working groups o f the identified options and with the vote by all stakeholders
on the priority adaptation measures. These measures were then presented to the respective Acting
Primer Minister. Duringthe regional consultation the primer ministers o f the three participating
countries met inorder to further agree upon and elaborate the identified pilots.

Dominica

16.     Background. The Commonwealth o f Dominica i s situated between Guadeloupe to the
north and Martinique to the south, at approximately 15' North and 61' West, making the island
the most northerly o f the sub-regional Windward Islands grouping. Located in the middle o f the
Lesser Antilles, with a total land area o f 750.6 km2(290 sq. miles), Dominica is the also the
largest Windward Island. In 1996, the population was estimated to be 73,500 with an
approximate growth rate o f 1.3% per annum. With a population density o f 94.8 persons per km2,
Dominica i s the least populated Windward Island.

17.     Dominica is very mountainous (see Figure 4) and o f volcanic origin and measures 47
kilometers long and 22 kilometers wide, covering 751 square km. The topography o f the island i s
dominated by a central line o f volcanic peaks that rise to 1,220 meters and from which radiate
numerous ridges that extend to the coastline where they sometimes end abruptly as steep sea
cliffs. The central watershed i s no more than 6.5 km fiom the sea in all directions and for
conservation purposes has been demarcated as National Park Reserve in which no agricultural
farming is permitted. A number o f subsidiary peaks (about 610 meters) are found just outside
this central line o f ridges, dislocating to some extent the natural radial distribution of the main
ridges.

18.     About 64, 780 hectares (ha) is considered available for agriculture, although an
indeterminate proportion o f this i s unsuitable on account o f slopes, excessive rainfall and



                                                 28

accessibility. The reliefi s extraordinarily abrupt with highly dissected terrain, numerous steep or
precipitous slopes and with relatively little flat land.      Estimates o f land slope classes as a
percentage o f the total area indicated that 85% o f the land i s very steep or mountainous, 13% i s
steeply undulating and 2% i s flat or gently undulating.

19.     Sixty-five percent (65%) o f Dominica's land area i s covered by vegetation ranging from
dry scrub woodland on the coast to lush, tropical forest inthe interior and a wide variety o f fauna
and flora (see Figure 5). The interior is interspersed with rivers, waterfalls and lakes. This has
earned Dominica the name "The Nature Island o f the Caribbean" The coastline o f Dominica is
richly endowed with an abundance and very diverse array o f flora and fauna. The topography as
well as the geological features, rainfall and climate o f the two coastlines are different and hence
provide differing habitats. The sub-marine topography i s similar to that o f the land, rugged and
mountainous with very deep valleys. There is a very narrow continental shelf around the island
and as a result the water plummets to depths inexcess o f 200ft very close to shore. There is also
a wide rangeo f estuarine habitat resulting from the manyrivers found on the island.

20.     Dominica's climate is classified as "humid tropical marine", with average temperatures o f
27OC (80'F).   Because o f the island's rugged topography, micro-climatic variability exist within
very short distances, influenced by the high moisture content o f the air masses that enter the
region from the Atlantic Ocean. This makes Dominica a very high rainfall country, with an
average rainfall o f 175 inches per year during the wet season. Rainfall increases from the
leeward side eastward towards the central parts o f the island where it reaches approximately 400
inches annually. The highrainfall makes the country susceptible to landslides, particularly inthe
more mountainous regions. Dominica is also vulnerable to hurricanes. Within the last decade the
social and economic infrastructure o f the country were severely affected by a number o f
hurricanes.

21.     A volcanic island with a series o f complex mountain ranges, Dominica is characterized
by very rugged and steep terrain. This topography has helped to protect the lush vegetation and
has contributed greatly to the island's dramatic beauty and the conservation o f its natural
resources. Forests and arable land, estimated at 22.6% and 27.8% respectively of total land area,
along with an extensive network o f surface and underground water, make up the major natural
resource base. Dominica possesseshydroelectric energy sources, and extensive marine resources
including impressive coral reefs. Since the last decade increasing attention has being placed on
the sustainable use o f these natural resources.

22.     A detailed environmental protection strategy was proposed in a National Structural Plan
formulated for the 1976       -1990 period. This included protection and conservation measures
related to beach pollution, forest conservation and utilization, national parks, scenic and
recreational facilities, critical environmental areas, historic structures, water catchment, fisheries,
and wildlife (GOCD, 1976). Over this period, local interest inenvironmental concerns increased,
resulting in 1975 in the establishment o f the Morne Trois Piton National Park. Two forest
reserves were established in 1972 and 1977 respectively. The National Parks and Protected Area
Act was passed in 1975, and during the same period the people o f Dominica witnessed the
establishment o f two more national parks, the rejuvenation o f the Dominica Conservation
Association in 1990, and the designation o f the years 1989            - 1990 as the "Years o f the



                                                  29

Environment and Shelter (YES)." Many of the recommendations contained in the National
Structural Plan, such as the establishment of an Environmental Protection Unit and
environmental impact assessment legislation, are now being implemented.

Figure 4 -Dominica (Topography)




                            0                   e                      16 Micf




23.     Dominica's economic growth of has always been based on the utilization of its land
resources and on the productive initiatives of an educated and healthy labor force of
approximately 40,000. The small domestic market makes economic growth highly dependent on
exports. Decline and stagnation characterized the major productive sectors, agriculture and
manufacturing and tourismbetween the period 1995 - 1999.

24.    Dominica is host to the most diverse assemblage of wildlife species remaining in the
EasternCaribbean. All the faunal groups are well represented. It i s the great diversity of habitats
encompassedwithin this island of less than 800 square kilometers (300sq.m) that give rise to this
rich diversity of animals and faunal communities. The greatest diversity of animal life occurs in



                                              30

the rain forest with birds and bats particularly well represented'. Dominica has the most diverse
avifauna o f the Lesser Antilles despite its geographic location within the centre o f the island
chain.

25.     Numerous studies on species diversity have been conducted in recent years by Evans
(1986, 1989); Faaborg and Arendt (1985): and Swank and Julien (1975). One hundred and
seventy-five species o f bird have been recorded from Dominica. Many o f the birds are migratory
and sixty species breed on the island. Dominica's resident birds include two single island
endemics and nine regional endemic species.

26.     Dominica boasts a phenomenal plant diversity of approximately 155 families, 672 genera
and 1226 species o f vascular plants (Nicolson, 1991).              Malary (1993) lists the number o f
indigenous species as pteridophytes (194), gymnosperms (l),                   monocotyledons (5 18) and
dicotyledons (1,445). Dominica has two genera, agave and furcrea that are endemic to the
Caribbeanlo.

27.     Dominica's two endemic parrot species Amazona imperialis and Amazona arausiaca are
both considered threatened (IUCN Red Datu List) and are specially protected birds under
Dominican law. The most recent population estimate put the parrot population at 200 for A.
imperialis, and 1500-2000 for A. arausiaca. Although A. imperialis may never have been
abundant inDominica, it is now considered rare. Both species have been negatively impactedby
the combined effects o f forest clearance for agriculture and the damage to the forests caused by
hurricanes. The populations o f these two endangered parrots reached critical levels as low as 60
for A. imperialis and 200 for A. Arausiaca following Hurricane David in 1979.

28.     Dominica is also important for seabirds. The commonest breeding species are: White-
tailed Tropicbird (Phaethon lepturus); Red-billed Tropicbird (Phaethon aethereus); Common
Tern (Sterna hirundo; Roseate Tern (Sterna dougallii); Bridled Tern (Sterna anaethetus); Sooty
Tern (Sternafuscata); and Brown Noddy (Anous stolidus). Magnificent Frigatebirds (Fregata
magnijcns) are non-breeding residents. Breeding colonies o f most species are small and
concentrate on relatively inaccessible coastal cliffs and islets where predation pressures are
lower. One o f the seabird species o f regional interest is the Black-capped Petrel (Pterodroma
hasitata) recorded on Dominica up to the later half o f the 1800s. Considered to be extinct on
Dominica but a sighting in 1982 may be an indication that the species may be breeding on
remote inaccessible coastal cliffs.

29.     Eighteen species o f terrestrial mammals have been recorded for .Dominica. The wild
mammalian population includes twelve native species o f bats, one species o f opposum, one
species o f feral pig, and four species o f rodents including the Agouti. O f the twelve bats species
recorded on the island four are regionally endemic namely: Monophyllus plethodin; Ardops
nicholsil; Myotis dominicensis; and Bracyphylla cavernum. Diversity and density o f bats are
highest in and around rain forests. The impacts o f agricultural cultivation and hurricanes have
reduced bat species populations and diversity.

'DominicaEnvironmental Profile 1991.
loSource -. Dominica's Biodiversity Strategy andAction Plan - Countty Study. Government of Dominica. 2001


                                                     31

30.     Fifty-five species of butterflies have been recorded in Dominica. Two species are
endemic to Dominica (Evans & James) and seven are endemic to the Lesser Antilles which i s
confined to montane areas i s endemic to Dominica and Guadeloupe. This species i s threatened
due to habitat loss and widespread use o f agro-chemicals.

Figure 5 -Dominica (vegetation)




          yandb
          2-h?
          nsion ofAgnculiuw
          f 767-448-24VI ed 3142




3 1.   AdaptationPilot Activities:
At the stakeholder consultation held inDominica on lSt  October, three projects were identified:




                                                32

  1.1      Morne Diablotin National Park and Neighbouring Communities Ecosystem Climate
           Change Adaptation Project;
  1.2      Institutional Strengthening and Sustainable Development Strategy;
  1.3      Morne Trois Pitons IntegratedEcosystem Management Project.

32.      Further, the two sites play a critical, albeit un-quantified role in maintaining ecosystems
balance at the broader national level. Failure to address negative land degradation trends at the
two sites will have a cascading effect on ecosystems situated between these sites and the near
shore environment.

33.      The designation o f the two sites as national parks and protected areas reflects the
determination o f the Government o f Dominica to protect their direct and indirect contribution to
the island's economic and social development. The project is seen as: (a) improving the
economic, social and environmental resilience at the community and national levels to climate
change; (b) enhancing the impact and sustainability o f existing and planned investments at the
two sites; and (c) protecting the livelihoods o f persons who depend on the ecosystem goods and
services at the sites and thus reduce the incidence o f poverty at the national and community
level;

34.      A more detailed description o f the impacts o fthe project's interventions on the status quo
is presented below.


1.        Morne Diablotin National park and Neighboring Coastal Communities

35.      The site has been selected because o f the national and global importance o f its extensive
biodiversity, (including the two endemic species o f parrots) and the potential that climate change
may impair the contribution o f these biological resources to the production o f ecosystems goods
and services and to stability o fthe global climate.

Site Description

36.      The Morne Diablotin National Park is part o f Dominica's extensive protected area
system. In January 2000 the 203.6 acres Parrot Preserve was added to 8,321 acres of the
Northern Forest Reserve to establish the 8,525 acres Morne Diablotin National Park. Primary
forest covers almost the entire area o f the park. Evans and James (1997) indicate that the best
forests in Dominica are to be found in the northwest and northeast slopes o f Morne Diablotin
particularly those areas sheltered from the effects o f recent hurricanes'

37.      The main feature o f the National Park is Morne Diablotin Mountain, the tallest mountain
inDominica andinthe EasternCaribbean, after which the National Park is named. The mountain
itself i s named after the extremely rare black-capped petrel; a large shearwater, which once had
colonies on Morne Diablotin and its weird nocturnal cries, gave rise to its local name, Diablotin

"EvansP.G.H.andJamesA.(1997).DominicaNatureIslandoftheCaribbean:AGuidetoGeology, Climateand
Habitats.



                                                   33

and hence the mountain on which it once nested. For many years it was thought to be extinct but
a large colony was discovered in Haiti. Since 1982, small numbers have been seen close to the
south-east coast of Dominica, flying inland after dark, but breeding has yet to be proved. Now
extinct, is the large migratory Diablotinbirdwhich once nestedthere (Evans and James, 1997).

38.     The vegetation types found in the Park include Mature RainForest, Montane RainForest,
Montane thicket, Elfin woodland and Secondary rain forest. The park i s believed to support the
highest diversity of plants and animal life inDominica.According to John (2002) the park has 24
species of butterflies, 2 species of amphibians, 9 species of reptiles, 51 species of birds, 15
species of mammals, and fresh water fishes and invertebrates12. The area i s home to the
Dominica's two endemic species of parrots: the Sisserou Parrots and Jako, which were once on
the endangeredspecies list.

Figure 6-Map of Dominica ShowingProtected Areas




12NationalParks and Forest Reserves. John, C. 2002.


                                                   34

39.    The Park i s the source o f eleven (11) rivers including the Picard andMelville Hall Rivers.
The park goes from 700 ft to 4,747 ft above sea level and i s characterized by high risk o f
landslides due to steepness, abundant moisture andrainfall and fiiable underlying volcanic rocks.
According to John (2002) the climatological conditions o f the park are as follows: Wind
moderate except for near the mountain summits. Rainfall in the park i s 150" (3800mm) to over
300" (7600mm) per annum. Temperature ranges between 21 OC to 25               C. Humidity i s high,
seldom falling below 85%.

40.    Syndicate Nature Trail
This well-marked trail follows a looped circuit that on its eastern margin skirts the edge o f the
Picard River gorge with three fine view points across the canopy o f magnificent stands o f
montane rain forests.    The trail i s located in the 204-acre tract o f forest that in 1989 was
purchased by the Government with help from international conservation organizations and local
people and declared a Parrot Preserve. All the major forest trees such as gommye, chatanye, bwa
dyab, bwa kot, karapit and maho kochon are labeled for ready identification. Here one has an
excellent chance o f seeing the rare endangered imperial parrot (Sisserou) as well as the more
abundant red-necked parrot. (Evans and James 1997)

41,    The Role and Status of the Colihaut, Dublanc and Bioche Communities
Colihaut, Dublanc and Bioche are located on the northwestern coast o f Dominica and together
form the Parish o f St. Peter. The twin communities o f Dublanc and Bioche are served by the
same Village Council whilst Colihaut has its own Village Council. The Village Council i s
responsible for local community governance. It collects taxes, allocates land, and distributes
welfare allowance, road repairs, and maintenance o fpublic facilities.

42.    The three communities have a combined population o f 1601 (Dublanc 431, Bioche 271
and Colihaut 899) (Dominica Census 2001 Report). Dublanc and Bioche have a number o f
shared services, including a Roman Catholic Church, a Pre School, a Government Primary
School, a Health Centre, a Community Centre and a playing field. Dublanc and Bioche have two
faces. The emerging new residential areas which are mainly returning retires from the UK and
the old sections o f the villages characterized by landlessness, unemployment, single parent and
grandparent households.(Lowrence 1999)

43.    O f importance within the context o f climate change i s the fact that each o f the three
communities i s served by the same river which flows through the villages practically dividing
them intwo sections. The water system inDublanc and Bioche was constructed in 1968 to serve
200-300 persons. Currently, the same system which has never been upgraded since its
construction provides water to over 700 persons. In addition, the communities have expanded
uphill.Duringthe dry season there are water shortages as demand on the system exceeds supply.
Duringthe rainy season the system is plagued with blockages. The pupils o f the Primary School
located inDublanc are repeatedly sent home whenever the water system is interrupted. The three
communities are therefore at risk to drought or flood impacts that climate change might generate.

44.    The three communities are traditional fishing and farming communities. However, the
decline o f the banana industry and the significant decline in fish stocks along the west coast i s
contributing to dismal economic situation in these and other communities around Dominica.



                                                  35

Efforts at diversification into tourism have not brought the desired trickle effects o f income to
the rural communities. The 1995/1996 Poverty Assessment identified Dublanc and Bioche as
two o f the 12 poorest communities o f Dominica. In contrast the Commonwealth o f Dominica
Country Poverty Assessment (2003) shows that the incidence o fpoverty inDominica i s lowest in
the St. Peter and Roseau where 17-18% o f households are poor.

45.     Rural poverty can have very adverse effects on the natural resources as poor persons seek
to etch out a living from their surroundings. Although not specifically reported for the St. Peter
Parish, according to the Country Poverty Assessment o f 2003, rural poverty i s leading to
problems o f deforestation and soil erosion in some areas. In some hilly areas, poverty i s
negatively affecting the environment through slash and bum cultivation to obtain wood for
cooking. Subsistence hunting is threatening the preservation o f some species especially as the
huntingseason is not being respected. Although these practices are not widespread at present,
increasing poverty i s likely to make them more so. Poor families rely on inshore fishing since
they have no resources to fish offshore. This could lead to over-fishing and to the depletion o f
fish stocks in the near shore area. The FishingDivision is encouraging the use o f long lines and
aggregating devises, but these are beyond the means o f the poor. However, the presence o f the
Ross University located about twelve miles-from Dublanc in the town o f Portsmouth provides
new opportunities for persons from the Dublanc and Bioche communities to be employed in the
service sector.

46.      Syndicate and Milton Farms
The lands between the Mome Diablotin National Park and the communities o f Dublanc and
Bioche contain privately-owned farms. These are cultivated with tree crops such as bananas,
coconuts, grapefruits oranges, coffee, ground provisions thus making this area one o f the most
diversified farmlands in Dominica. The farms' average acreage is 10 acres and the total amount
o f farms i s inthe region o f 100.

47.     The period o f December to June is characterized by very low rainfall and intense heat.
Crop production is greatly affected by water stresses. Farmers are reluctant to venture into
vegetable productionbecause agriculture i s mainly rain-fed.

48.     Due to the decline in the banana industry a number o f the farms are presently idle.
Another issue affecting farmers in the area is the increase in the parrot population. The parrots
are the number one "pest" to the farmers inthe area. Deforestation o f the area to establish farms
has reduced the amount o f tress that served as traditional food sources for the parrots. Beingvery
intelligent, the parrots have adapted their feeding habits with the citrus being their food o f
choice. The citrus is available in abundance inthe,neighboringfield. This situation i s presently a
huge source o f conflict between farmers and conservationists as the farmers who are not
compensated for their loss and are unable to earn an income from their investments.

49.     Forest and Terrestrial Resources
The Mome Diablotin National Park, the Syndicate Nature Trail and the Milton Waterfall are
important tourism attractions that serve as a source o f income for tour operators and individuals
in the community. Research has not been conducted on the effects o f climate change on the
terrestrial resources. However based on the scenarios for the Caribbean, climate change will



                                                 36

affect the forest and terrestrial resources o f the national Park. The extremes o f temperature,
hurricanes and tropical storms will adversely affect the vegetation and fauna in the National
Parks.

50.      Coastal Ecosystem
As with the forest and terrestrial resources o f the National Park, the coastal ecosystem in
Dublanc, Bioche and Colihaut will be greatly affected by the climate change. The anticipated
effects include the loss o f sea grass beds, coral reef siltation, physical destruction and bleaching,
loss o f landmass due to beach erosion, destruction o f fishing equipment and landingsites.

51.      Fresh Water Resources
Fresh water resources in this area are also expected to be affected as a result o f climate change.
The Morne Diablotin National Park i s the source for 11o f Dominica's 365 rivers (see Figure 7).
Heavy rains affect water quality as a result surface run-off and soil erosion. Duringthe dry spells
there i s a drastic decrease in water quantity as a result o f reduce stream flow. Heavy rainfall
damages the intake, which was Constructed in 1968. In addition, the run-off from the farms
located above the intake can compromise the quality o f the potable water. Changes in
precipitation patterns from climate change are likely to have a significant impact on water
resources inthe area.

52.      HumanSettlements
Humansettlements inthe three communities are also likely to be negatively affected by climate
change. The communities are located on the western side o f the island, which offer very little
protection from wind and other climatic extremes. Historically, especially in Dublanc and
Bioche, houses in these communities were constructed in close proximity to and/or within the
zone o f active wave action. In addition the rivers, which runthrough these communities usually
overflow and cause flood damage during periods o f high rainfall. During hurricanes there i s
wave damage to housing stock and infrastructure.

53.      Agriculture
The three communities are heavily dependent on agriculture and as such climate change is likely
to have negative effects on the economies o f these communities. Banana is one o f the main
crops produced by farmers in the Syndicate and Milton areas. The physiological characteristics
o f the banana plant makes very vulnerable to climatic extremes. The banana plant is easily
toppled duringperiods o f even moderate wind, and the plant i s not tolerant to drought conditions.
Beside the banana the citrus fruits/flowers are destroyed during the storms. Heavy rainfall
increases the potential for pest and diseases and causes excessive soil erosion. Drought
conditions affect productivity, as the plantsdo not yield their optimum production.

54.      Fisheries
The three communities depend on fishing for a significant amount o f family income. The fishing
industry is vulnerable to climate change as the storms damage coral reefs, sea beds, beach
landing sites, fishing equipment and boat houses. Siltation resulting from heavy rainfall causes
coral reef destruction and this has led to a reduction o f fish stocks. This i s particularly
devastating to the fishermen o f Bioche and Colihaut communities who mainly use fish pots to
catch demersal species.



                                                  37

Figure 7- Water catchment areas in Dominica
                                   ,MYITRIE nivm




                     S I O U L I RIV



                         BLANCUE RNE

   Ln MAJOR   BASINS

        MINOR BASINS

        RIVER MOUTHS
                                                       0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0 K H




 Important watersheds of Dominica(source: GOCD, 1976), showing the following MAJOR BASINS: (1)
 LayouRiver; (2) Roseau River; (3) Clyde River; (4) Pagua River; (5) Castle Bruce River; (6) Rosalie River
 andMINORBASINS:(7) IndianRiver; (8) BlenheimRiver; and(9) HampsteadRiver.
I                                                                                                         I




                                                    38

2. Institutional Strengthening and Sustainable Development Strategy.

55.     The three Technical Assessment Reports (TAR) produced by the IPCC have repeatedly
stressed that the impacts o f climate change and climate variability will be felt most by those
countries with weak policy and institutional arrangements. Like most SIDS inthe Caribbean and
elsewhere, Dominica's is severely challenged by limitations inits policy, technical, technological
and management capacity, which compromise its ability to anticipate and respond to a variety of
hazard risks, including those related to climate change.

56.     A major deficiency is the absence o f an integrated institutional framework that would
permit and facilitate the mainstreaming o f climate change, biodiversity and sustainable land
management in national development planning. In fact, the adoption o f a coordinated and
collaborative approach among environmental agencies i s also posing severe challenges.
Environmental management responsibilities remain scattered among several Ministries and
agencies. The integration and collaboration that has taken place has been ad hoc and limited to
specific short-term initiatives.

57.     This component o f the project is expected to enhance the capacity o f the key actors inthe
decision-making process in Dominica to operationalize an integrated development planning
approach.

58.     Site Description
The Ministry o f Agriculture, Fisheries and the Environment i s the Government agency with
primaryresponsibility for environmental management inDominica. Traditionally, environmental
management functions were assigned to the Divisions o f Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry or
Pesticides Control Board as well as other government agencies such as the Planning Division
depending on the issue in question.

59.     However, environmental matters by their very nature are multi-faceted, and pose serious
problems for institutional and managerial frameworks. Thus, in 1999 the Government of the
Commonwealth o f Dominica (GOCD) established by Cabinet decision 58/99 the Environmental
Coordinating Unit as a unit o f the Ministry o f Agriculture, Fisheries and the Environment. This
was in keeping firstly, with the recommendations o f a 1998 Study conducted by the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) for the Government o f the Commonwealth o f
Dominica (Douglas 1998) so as to address the increasing need for coordination o f the large
number of Multi-lateral Environmental Agreements (MEAs) to which Dominica i s a signatory.

60.     The overall function o f the Environmental Coordinating Unit (ECU) i s to bring about
more focused environmental management approaches to solving Dominica's environment
problems; to advise government on the development o f more coherent environmental policies
and to enhance Dominica's compliance with international treaties and conventions to which it is
signatory. Infurtherance o f its mission the ECUi s charged with working with all institutions that
havejurisdiction or interest inenvironmental management.

61.     Some o f the more important functions o f the unit are to: coordinate periodic
studiedreviews on the impact o f major infrastructural projects on the environment; preparation



                                                 39

o f environmental impact assessments (EIAs) before all major projects are executed; liaise with
government, and private sector agencies whose work impact on the environment; promote
interest and encourage public participation in environmental matters; assist the Permanent
Secretary/Minister in the development o f environmental policies and strategies; serve as focal
point for regional and international organizations with responsibility for the environment; and
report annually on the state o f the environment. Additional functions o f the Unit include:
     *:* Examiningand advising government on international environmental conventions, so as to
         minimize duplication and costs andmaximize benefits;
     *:* Stimulating interest in the wider community, on environmental matters through the
         development o f public awareness programmes targeted at the local community, private
         andpublic sector andpolicymakers;
     *:* Introducing legislation and regulations for empowerment o f the Unit;
     *:* Developing a suitable mechanism for the effective coordination o f environmental matters
         inDominica within the context o fits mission;
     *:* Evolving to be the "authority" on environmental management issues inDominica;
     *:* Training o f staff in selected areas o f identified weakness, for example environmental
         impact assessments;
     *:* Collaborating with other NGO/private sector institutions involved in environmentally
         related programs/projects.

62.      The GEF-funded, National Capacity Self Assessment has identified the strengthening o f
the Environmental Coordinating Unit and the development o f a National Sustainable
Development Strategy as important capacity building activities to ensure the effective and
coordinated implementation o f the Rio Conventions (UNFCCC, CBD, and UNCCD). The
Government o f Dominica recognizes the need for strengthening the ECU and has made such a
commitment in its 2005 Manifesto. Unfortunately, this intention has been constrained by the
ongoing IMF Stabilization Programme. Nonetheless, the Government stands firm in its
commitment and recently appointed a Public Awareness Officer to the ECU. While the
Government is taking these measures as far as i s possible, institutional strengthening remains
very much a priority. The establishment o f a coordinated legal, institutional and operational
framework that would enhance the resilience o f national biodiversity and natural systems and
thereby reduce their vulnerability to climate change remains an urgent priority. Another national
priority i s the development o f a National Sustainable Development Strategy that would integrate
climate change, biodiversity and land degradation strategies within a strategic framework that
would address social and economic development.

3.       Morne Trois Pitons Integrated Ecosystem Management Project.
Site description

63.      Morne Trois Pitons National Park was the first unit o f the Dominica National Parks
System to be established. It is the most popular tourist destination. Its primary purpose i s the
protection o f the natural resources with in its boundaries - water, soil, flora and fauna - for the
benefit, education and enjoyment o f the people o f Dominica as well as for other residents and
visitors.




                                                  40

64.     The Park covers approximately 17,000 acres, and i s rich in natural resources and
phenomena. It encompasses some o f the outstanding physical features o f the island; five major
mountains after one o f which the Park is named), Boeri and FreshWater lakes, the world famous
Boiling Lake and undisturbed rain forests and montane vegetation. In December, 1997,
Dominica's Morne Trois Pitons National Park was inscribed inthe list o f World Natural Heritage
Sites by UNESCO.

65.     Morne Trois Pitons National Park (takes its name from the highest o f several mountain
peaks that lie within the Park's boundaries. These peaks and their connecting ridges form the
highpoint o f the Park Lands.The eastern slopes face the Atlantic Ocean and the western slopes
the Caribbean Sea. The Park contains the following very rare and unique features:
        -   Habitats o f rare endemic species: The two Dominican parrots (Sisseriou and
            Redneck), several lizards, a unique small tree frog, and a large variety o f plants are
        -   found inthe montane-cloud forest zones.
            Unique Ecosystems: The Park contains the "Boiling Lake" which i s believed to be the
            largest in the world o f its kind. The lake contains almost undisturbed lake sediments
            bearing a sedimentary record which may help unravel the recent evolutionary history
            o f local ecosystems and foster a better understanding o f such developments, world
            wide.

66.     Multiple land use in areas adjoining the Park threatens the integrity o f natural
ecosystems. The National Park i s made up o f former crown lands and the privately, contributed
Middleham Estate. Within its boundaries are a few private-in-holdings, Additionally, the
Government granted rights-of-way to DOMLEC, the power utility. DOMLEC's rights o f way
and the private in-holdings are both situated near the Park's Main entrance at the Fresh Water
Lake. Villages in close proximity to the boundaries o f the Park contain more that 10 percent o f
the nation's population.

67.     Part o f the requirements for enlisting o f Morne Trois Pitons National Park as a World
Heritage Site was the establishment o f a Buffer Zone for maintaining the integrity o f the park.
The land in the Pond CassC area adjacent to the Park which should have constituted the Buffer
Zone has been under private ownership since before the Morne Trois Pitons National Park was
established. These lands were never repurchased for the formal establishment o f the Buffer Zone.
The Government o f Dominica has also embarked on a planto examine the possibility o f making
the area adjacent to the Morne Trois Pitons National Park into a Protected Area. In this regard
preliminary GIS surveys are presently being carried out.

68.     Inrecent times, however due to the growing demand for lands for private development,
the landowners havebeen subdividing their lands for real estate development purposes. This new
development i s posing a challenge as to what kinds o f activities should be allowed in the Buffer
Zone. Lands are being stripped o f their forest cover. The area is located in an extremely high
rainfall zone, which, in addition to its rich biodiversity plays an important water retentionhelease
role. It serves as the source o f water for some o f the rivers in the Layou Valley and Formel/
Castle Bruce area. Deforestation and degradation o f these lands can have very serious
implications for the water resources o f Dominica. Impacts from climate change are likely to




                                                  41

affect the ecological integrity o f the Park - largely from changes in precipitation patterns - and
to agricultural and social activities in adjoining buffer areas.


Saint Lucia

69.     Background:
Saint Lucia i s located at latitude 13'59' N and longitude 61' W approximately midway between
the islands o fMartinique to the Northand St. Vincent to the south. Ithas an area o f 616 km2and
a population o f approximately 160,000. The island is o f volcanic origin and is very rugged in
topography with a narrow coastal ridge, deeply incised valleys and a central mountain ridge
which include Mt. Gimie (950m), the highest peak. The island i s located on a submerged
volcanic ridge   - the Saint Lucian Sill - connecting its northern and southern neighbours, and
measures 27 miles (42km) at its longest point and 14 miles (22km) at its widest. A collapsed
caldera with domes and solfataric activity is located in the Soufriere area on the west coast.
Although the last volcanic eruption occurred more than 50,000 years ago the island i s vulnerable
to the effects o fvolcanic activity inthe other islands as well as to earthquakes.

70.     Saint Lucia i s located within the Trade Wind belt with average temperatures o f 27
degrees C (79'F)     and relative humidity o f 75%. Rainfall amounts show annual and spatial
variation. There are two distinct wet (June to November) and dry (December to May) seasons.
Wet season rainfall i s primarily cyclonic in origin and i s spatially distributed with the northern
and southern tips significantly drier and the interior    - due to orographic effects - significantly
wetter.

71.     As a Small Island Developing State Saint Lucia is potentially at greater risk to climate
change due to:
    0   Its limited land space;
    0   Its vulnerability to the effects o f changes in marine conditions, due to its "wrap-around"
        coastline;
    0   Limitedhuman and economic resources to address adverse impacts;
    0   The location o f the population andthe critical infrastructure on low lyingreclaimed land;
    0   The cultural barriers to scientific literacy;
    0   Its location within the hurricane belt.

72.     The effects o f land degradation are reflected inthe apparent progressive dwindling o f the
islands water resources which is essentially surface water.

73.     Despite its small size, Saint Lucia possesses a high degree o f ecosystem diversity and i s
home to a wide range o f flora and fauna. Its most endangered terrestrial species occupy coastal
and inland habitats including the White Breasted Thrasher (Ramphocinclus brachyrus), a bird
species found on the East Coast and endemic only to Saint Lucia and Martinique; the Saint Lucia
Racer (Liophis ornatus), a snake restricted to Maria Island, its last rehge inthe entire world; the
Acalypha elizabethae, a rare endemic plant species found on Petit Piton; and Beilschmieda
pendula, o f which a single specimen found in the rainforest at Des Cartiers i s being monitored
for fruit production. About fifty-six percent (56%) o f natural forest i s found in the forest


                                                   42

reserves and forty-three percent (43%) on private lands. Scrub forests and mangroves are mainly
found on private lands. There is a total o f 256 hectares o f plantation forest existing within the
forest reserves consisting o f three main timber tree species, namely: Blue Mahoe (Hibiscus
elatus); Honduras mahogany (Swietenia macrophylla) and Caribbean pine (Pinus caribbaea).
There are also two species o f Christmas trees in the reserve: the cypress (Cupressus lusitanica)
and the araucaria (Araucaria excelsa).

74.    The wetlands o f Saint Lucia are relatively small but are representative o f most wetland
ecosystems. The total area o f the island's wetlands has been reduced from 320 hectares to 193
hectares, with some areas currently under considerable stress (Devaux, 1988). The wetlands are
made up o f four types o f systems: estuarine, riverine, palustrine and lacustrine (Portecop and
Benito- Espinal 1985). The estuarine system i s referred to as a fringing mangrove swamp and i s
considered to be the most productive wetland, while the riverine mangrove swamp i s the most
common wetland in Saint Lucia. The palustrine and lacustrine systems are important habitats for
water birds.

75.     Saint Lucia possesses at least 1,310 known species o f flowering plants, cycads and
gymnosperms belonging to 143 families. This includes 105 plants o f known medicinal value and
241 recorded forest tree species. There are 118 fern species with the majority being found within
the forest ecosystem. Seven fern plant species are considered endemic to Saint Lucia. There are
twenty-seven endangered plants recorded, most o f which are found in the coastal and lowland
habitats. Ofthe twenty-seven plants, two species (Tetrazygia angustfolia andMyrcia leptocelda)
are at immediate risk o f extinction because their limited habitat i s threatened by urban
development. Three species associated with freshwater swamps are also at risk due to the
disappearance o f their habitat. They include: Pavonia paludicola, Machaerium lunatum and
Montrichandia arborecens (Graveson, 1998). There are nine (9) endemic plants, o f which the
palitivye wouj (Chvysochlamys caribaea), a small stilt-rooted tree, grows along riverbanks in
sheltered valleys where natural forest still occur, such as along the Roseau River, above the John
Compton Dam site and inthe rainforest. Another endemic plant,Acalypha elizabethae, i s a small
shrub found on the Pitons andina river valley close to Anse-la-Liberte. Because o f its Caribbean
coastal habitat, it i s threatened by land clearing for development. Lowye Canelle (C. elongatum),
balata (M bidentata) and latanye (Coccothrinax barbadensis), are other endemic plants which
are threatened as a result o f over-exploitation and extensive destruction o fhabitat.

76.     There are over one hundred and fifty (150) bird species, seventeen (17) reptiles, nine (9)
mammals and four (4) amphibians found in the forests and terrestrial environment o f Saint
Lucia. The island is home to five endemic species o f birds: the Saint Lucia Parrot or Jacquot
(Amazona versicolor); the Saint Lucia blackfinch or moisson pied-blanc                (Melanospiza
richardsoni); Semper's Warbler or pied blanc (Leucopeza semper); the Saint Lucia Oriole or
carouge (Icterus laudabilis); (Saint Lucia Pewee or gobemouche (Contopus oberi). The island's
biodiversity, includes endemic birds, reptiles and plant species. It can be characterized by the
following:
        Over 1,300 known species o fplants including seven endemics); over 150 species o fbirds
        (includingfive endemics); approximately 250 reef fish andfifty coral species;




                                                  43

0 A genetic diversity, a by-product o f the island's history, which has resulted in the
  introduction o f a wide range o f species, breeds and cultivars, and the production of a
  number o f cross-breeds;
  A high diversity o f ecosystems, ranging from dry cactus scrubs to rainforest, and
  including mangroves and coral reefs;
  Highnatural fragility andvulnerability o fthese ecosystems, due inthe mainto their small
  size and scattered spatial distribution;
  Significant contribution o f biological diversity to the local economy; potential increase
  in benefits including the use o f plants for medicinal purposes and the development of
  heritage tourism;
0 A diversity o f property and management regimes; all marine and many terrestrial
  ecosystems are under public ownership; other terrestrial ecosystems (especially the dry
  forest formations) under private ownership;
0 High levels of impacts from human activities, which have transformed many natural
  habitats and have resulted inthe loss o f the country's biological diversity;
  Uneven distribution o f impacts and threats among species and ecosystems;
   An insufficient knowledge o fbiological resources and their potential;




                                           44

Figure 8-SaintLucia (Topography)
                                                                    1. Salee / Lapins
                                                                    2.   Esperence
                                                                    3.   Trou Graval / Dauphin
                                                                    4.   Marquis
                                                                    5.   Grande Anse / Louvetcomplex
                                                                    6.   Fond d'Or
                                                                    7.   Dennery
                                                                    8.   Rivere Galet/ Trois Islet complex
                                                                    9.   Mamiku/ Patience
                                                                    10. Fond
                                                                    11. Volet
                                                                    12. Troumassee
                                                                    13. Micoud/ Ravine Bethelcomplex
                                                                    14. Canelles
                                                                    15. St. Urbaincomplex
                                                                    16. Vieux Fort
                                                                     17. Black Bay
                                                                     19. Piaye
                                           3                        20. Belambouche
                                                                    21. Dare6
                                                                    22. Choiseulcomplex
                                                                    23. L'lvrogne
                                                                    24. Pitons complex
                                                                    25. Soufriere
                                               5                    26. Mamin/ Mahaut complex
                                                                    27. Canaries
                                                                    28. Anse la Verdue complex
                                                                    29. Grande Rivere du Anse la Raye
                                                                     30. Petit Rivere du Anse la Raye
                                                                     31. Roseau
                                         6                           32. Mt. Bellevue complex
                                                                     33. CUIde Sac
                                                                     34. Castriescomplex
                                                                     35. Choc
                                         7                           36. Bois d' Orange
                                                                     37. Cap complex
                                             8
                                                                 99.     unassignedareas
                                         9
                                                                note: watershed 18, Laborie (Migeotand
                                                                     Hadwen, 1986) not recognizedin this
                                                                     study. It is categorizedas an unassigned
                                         11                          area.




    TopographicMap as Saint Lucia showing watershed boundaries(C.Cox PhD. Thesis)
                             (project site areas depictedinred)




                                               45

77.     Figure 8 represents a topographic map of the island showing its division into some 37
watersheds.     Rivers emanating from within these major watershed areas (surface runoff)
comprise the primary source of freshwater in Saint Lucia.           Most of these watersheds are
characterized by their highly developed coastal areas which are significantly impacted by
activities in the upper watershed. Within these there are seven major river systems of primary
importance to the island's water supply system. Of importance also are the many wetland areas
or swamps that are found in both inland and coastal plains. Wetlands provide important habitats
for a very diverse group of flora and fauna and are thus important to the island's biodiversity. In
addition they are also important as regulators of coastal water quality, thereby providing
protection to coral reefs, sea-grass beds, offshore fisheries and beaches.

78.     Rainfall i s the most significant climatic factor. Wet season rainfall i s primarily cyclonic
inorigin andis spatially distributed with the northern and southerntips significantly drier andthe
interior due to orographic effects, significantly wetter (see Figure 9).


                                                                    Rainfall stutions (as at 1986)

                                                                        1.        Marquis Estate4-R-1
                                                                       2.         Marquis Babonneau44-2
                                                                       3.         La Caye 64-1
                                                                       4.         CARD1meteorological
                                                                                  station 6-M-1
                                                                       5.         Errard Estate7-R-1
                                                                       6.         Mamiku Estate943-1
                                                                       7.         Fond Estate 10-R-1
                                                                       8.         PatienceEstate 10-R-2
                                                                       9.         Troumassee Estate 12-R-1
                                                                       10.        Mahaut Estate 12-R-2
                                                                       11.        Quilesse 1243-3
                                                                        12.       Edmond Forest 12-R-4
                                                                        13.       BlanchardSchool 13-R-1
                                                                        14.       Hewannorra Airport
                                                                                  meteorologicalstation 15-
                                                                                  M-1
                                                                       15.        Moule-a-Chique1543-11
                                                                       16.        Point Sable 154-13
                                                                       17.        BeausejourEstate 154-14
                                                                       18.        RetraiteEstate 16-R-14
                                                                       19.        Woodland Estate 16-R-15
                                                                       20.        Grace 164-2
                                                                       21.        Black Bay 1743-11
                                                                       22.        Park Estate20-R-12
                                                                       23.        Saltibusmeteorological
                                                                                  station 21-M-1
                                                                       24.        Deicer School 22-R-1
                                                                       25.        UnionVale Estate23-R-1
                                                                       26.        Barthe Nursery23-R-2
                                                                       27.       Soufriere25-R-2
                                                                       28.       Ruby Estate2543-11
                                                                       29.       La Perle Estate 25-R-12
                                                                       30.       Canaries 27-R-2
                                                                       31.        Desraches27-R-1
                                                                       32.       WINBAN meteorological
                                                                                 station 31-M-1
                                                                       33.       Roseau Factory 31-R-1
                                                                       34.       MilletTete Chemin 314-3
                                                                       35.       Vanard Estate3143-11
                                                                       36.       Roseau Dam Millet 31-R-2
                                                                       37.       Dame de Traversay 31-R-
                                                                                 12
                                                                       38.       Soucis 3343-1
                                                                       39.       Crown Lands33-R-11
                                                                       40.       Odsan-Bexon33-R-2

                                                 46

79.     Saint Lucia i s dependent upon surface water (mainly rivers) for its municipal and
agricultural water supply. To date, no detailed studies have been conducted on available ground
water resources. At this time little use is made o f whatever ground water resources may exist.
Over the years, the country has experienced reduced volume in many rivers due, in large
measure, to the clearing o f forest cover for agriculture, housing and other purposes. Already,
given the growing demand for water for domestic, commercial, agricultural and touristic uses,
significant investments, such as the Roseau Dam have had to be made to meet the present and
projectedneeds.

80.     Changes in rainfall patterns will cause concern from two standpoints, namely, total
precipitation and temporal di~tribution'~.       Saint Lucia Country Paper on National Climate
ChangeIssues notes that with changing precipitation patterns as a result o f climate change, it is
possible that drought periods may become more frequent. This will have obvious impacts for a
water supply regime which i s already under stress. Ifthere i s increased rainfall, for example due
to increased cyclonic activity, the following are likely to happen:
1.      Duringrainy periods more water will be available. However, the problem o f storage may
        arise ifthe existing reservoirs are unable to hold the surplus water for later use.
2.      Dams and reservoirs may be negatively impacted by extreme rainfall events. They may
        become choked by siltation and vegetation or may even be destroyed, as was the case
        with Tropical Storm Debbie in 1994. There will therefore be an increased social and
        economic cost to ensure that these facilities are maintained.
3.      If there is more intense rainfall at certain times of the year, then there will be more
        regular occurrences o f flooding as rivers overflow their banks. There will also be a
        greater incidence o f surface runoff and corresponding erosion as a result o f the soil's
        inability to absorb rainfall at a sufficiently rapid rate.
4.      While there i s little use o f sub-surface water at this time, some low-lying coastal areas
        may be affected by saline intrusion from the sea as a result o f increased sea levels.

81.     There are a number o f concerns with respect to management o f watersheds such as
uncontrolled agricultural intensification, poor agricultural practices, inappropriate land use, (e.g.
cultivation or construction on steep slopes and along river banks), and direct and or, indirect
discharge o f untreated effluent into waterways.         The rapidly growing population with the
attendant demands for land and water for income generation has led to significant encroachment
o f sensitive water catchments areas and insome instances to unregulated abstraction o f water.

82.     Waste discharge too, (domestic, industrial, agricultural) i s also not regulated resulting in
poor water quality especially in the lower reaches o f the river systems. As the residual stream
flows necessary to support aquatic biota has not been determined, it i s possible that current
abstractions may in some cases exceed that required to sustain environmental quality. Increases
in population and the rapidly growing hotel and tourism sectors have continued to create
increasing demands for water throughout the island. The inability to effectively meet national
water requirements, especially in the dry season, and in elevated and/or rural areas i s testimony
to the critical state o f water resources inthe country.




l3Source-Saint Lucia Country Paper on National Climate ChangeIssues. Government of Saint Lucia. 2000.


                                                   47

Development Impact of Project Interventions (Linkages to National Priorities and
Programmes)

83.     The project's objectives are inkeeping with stated national priorities. Saint Lucia has for
the last five years been involved inthe process o f water sector reform. Inthis regard, a National
Water Policy has been developed and in May 2005 a new Water and Sewerage Act was
promulgated. The National Water Policy and Strategic Action Plan identifies the need to invest
inwater conservation strategies as a priority. It also identifies the need to integrate development
with ecosystem Conservation and specifically topromoting sustained community participation in
the management of water resources.

84.     A report submitted to the SDES in November 2004, entitled "Analysis for the
Sustainability of the Water Resources and Supply of the Vieux Fort Region of Saint Lucia" cites
the following: "with the present average demand of 801/s, water conservation programmes
separately geared to industry and individuals, should be implemented. This includes increasing
public awareness of the nature of the problem and what part individuals can play to work
towards a solution".

85.     Saint Lucia is one o f the countries expected to benefit from the GEF-funded I W C A M
Project. Its objective is to strengthen the commitment and capacity o f participating countries to
implement an integrated approach to the management o f watersheds and coastal areas. Saint
Lucia's Demonstration Project site i s the Fond d'Or Watershed and it i s anticipated that there
will be lessons to learn from both the local and regional context particularly with regard to
community buy-inand involvement.

86.     Saint Lucia's Initial National Communication on Climate Change identifies extended
periods o f drought, poor water quality and land degradation as some o f the possible impacts of
certain climate Change scenarios. The Climate Change Policy and Adaptation Plan and the
NBSAP both make specific reference to the need to undertake water conservation programmes,
and under the M A C C Vulnerability and Capacity Assessment Project, this is the same site which
has been selected for preliminary vulnerability assessment work.

87.     With respect to agricultural practice, the National Water Policy and Strategic Action
Plan, the Climate ChangePolicy and Adaptation Plan, and the Agricultural Policy all emphasize
the need to encourage the introduction o f drought resistant crop species as an appropriate
adaptation mechanism.

88.     The Climate Change Policy and Adaptation Plan identifies six (6) priority actions. The
two o f relevance to this pilot project relate to Freshwater Resources and to Cross-cutting Issues.
The proposal i s compatible with and directly supports the following International and
Multilateral Agreements to which Saint Lucia i s a signatory:
            Convention on Biological Diversity;
        0   United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD);
        0   Cartegena Convention and Protocols;
        0   St. George's Declaration o f Principles for Environmental Sustainability;
        0   RAMSARConvention on Wetlands.



                                                  48

                Pilot Site for VCA Project
                   O/ieux Fort Region)




Legend
@ Agri Station
0 Water Intake
   Watersheds




                                 49

89.     Site Description
The Vieux Fort Watershed comprising some 28.8 km2has long been recognized as suffering
from inappropriate land use, such as deforestation and inappropriate agricultural practice
(planting on too steep slopes), resulting in extensive soil erosion, sedimentation of river
channels, increased turbidity o f coastal areas, habitat loss and soil infertility. Land use i s
generally intensive with mixed small farming interspersed with open woodlands, scrub forest,
rough pasture and small settlements.

90.     This watershed together with its adjacent watersheds Roarne/Rugeine/Palmiste/St.Urban
and Black Bay contain approximately 1229 acres of Grass and Open Woodlands on the island
(WEMP Report). A little less than ten percent of the acreage within the Laborie Watershed also
lies within that category.     The predominant type o f agricultural practice i s intensive, small
farming and livestock farming with medium scale supplemental irrigation traditionally practiced
on the 17 acres Beausejour Agricultural Station (managed by the MAFF) and the 11 acre Black
Bay Farmers Cooperative. Lands inthis area were previously leased for a U.S.Base and in 1971
there was 6000 acres o f government-owned land available for development.            Squatting has
become a significant problem especially within the Vieux Fort watershed.            Some o f these
National Development Corporation lands have also traditionally been utilized for grazing as
communal pastures (now managed by the MAFF).

91.     Although the headwaters o f the Vieux Fort River emanate from within the forest reserve,
makingit one o f the major rivers on the island, the river and its catchment is under significant
threat from agricultural and urban expansion resulting in reduced "dry" season base flows and
poor water quality.

92.     The coastal area is a sensitive marine environment which supports coral reefs, coral
veneers, sea grass beds and offshore islands with rare and endangered species. The Maria Islands
Nature Reserve lies in close proximity to the southeast coast o f the mainland and the coastline
lies within the proposed Pointe Sable National Park. There are two mangroves located within
this area (both RAMSAR designated Sites, the Mankotk mangrove occupying some 60 ha and
also the largest o f the principal mangroves on the island. The area i s currently managed through
a collaborative arrangement with the Department o f Forestry and a group o f primarily charcoal
producers, the Aupicon Farmers Group.         Further south around the Savannes Bay area, an
additional area o f approximately 25 ha o f mangrove is located. This site provides habitat to a
variety o f flora and fauna including several bird species and marine oysters. Activities
undertaken in the general Pointe Sables / Savannes Bay area include tourism, fisheries,
mariculture (sea moss cultivation and scientific research).

93.     Water Situation
In general, there is a water supply deficit islandwide. The situation is more pronounced in the
South as it does not benefit from a centralized system such as the Roseau Dam in the North.
Beyond this limitation in the resource, there i s a significant level o f unaccounted-for water
(estimated at 45-55%) o f which a major component i s leakage on the distribution systems. The
infrastructure ingeneral is aged, approximately 50 years old insome cases.




                                                 50

94.     The Government o f Saint Lucia is placing considerable emphasis on the water sector to
the point o f appointing a Cabinet sub-committee to address relevant issues on an on-going basis.
There i s an on-going Water Sector Reform Project funded by the CDB and the World Bank
which i s currently undertakingthe following (invarious stages o f completion):
a.      Strengthening the regulatory and environmental framework (World Bank funded). This
        includes among other outputs the provision o f a new Water and Sewerage Act (2005)
        including draft regulations, recommendations for the set up o f the Water and Sewerage
        Commission and its Secretariat.
b.      Strengthening o f WASCO's internal Systems (CDB funded).
C.      Private Sector Participation Feasibility and implementation o f a concession transaction
        (World Bank funded).
d.      Infrastructural Improvements (CDB funded)      -
        ..i.    Replacement o f raw water transmission line at Talvern for the Hill 20 system;
       11.      Intake upgrade and new treatment plant at Woodlands Grace (in support o f the
      ...       southern water supplies);
      111.      Replacement o f Sewage Pumps inCastries;
      iv.       A meter purchase and installationprogram.

95.     Inan effort to balance the demands with the limited resource and leakage, there is a need
to look, not only at infi-astructural improvement but also at improved watershed management and
demand side management. Due to the limitation in the resource and the inability to precisely
predict the level o f availability o f the resource in the future, conservation measures become
essential to the sustainability o f the resource. There i s a need to educate and sensitize consumers
to reduce their wastage especially inthe dry season, to reduce the extent o f leakage, and as well
utilize rainwater harvesting techniques to assist in the reduction o f the demand. In addition, the
use o f water conservation devices i s a key strategy in this regard especially for large consumers
inthe tourism sector. This strategy is also identified inthe National Water Policy (completed in
2004) and in the Climate Change Policy and Adaptation Plan. Both instruments highlight the
need for attention to be given to various categories o f water users such as residences, the
commercial, industrial and tourism sectors.

96.     It is important that the resilience to the agricultural sector and inparticular the livestock
industry to dry weather conditions be addressed. Inthis regard the MAFF continues to support
livestock farmers in the area by maintaining the communal pastures, providing improved stock
andpasture as well as developingdemonstrationareas as leaming centres for farmers.

97.     Community/ OrganisationalIssues
The south o f the island has a long history o f community involvement, with the Laborie
Development Foundation being one o f the most successful island-wide. The Southern Tourism
Development Corporation has also achieved a measure o f success with respect to its work in
developing the Vieux Fort Recreational area. Yet another agency the Southern Development
Corporation, incorporated in 2002, has as its Mission Statement "tofoster development that is
genuinely sensitive to the culture, needs and aspirations of the people. The SDC recognizes that
people must be at the centre of any development process and that they must be involved in all
aspects of development planning".




                                                   51

98.     There are three established grass-roots community groups. The Aupicon Charcoal
Producers, has for more than twenty years, with the assistance o f other agencies successfully
managed the Mankotk mangrove, adopting a process o f selective felling o f trees, while the Black
Bay Farmers Cooperative has grown from an agricultural project where farmers utilize and
maintain communal infrastructure in the propagation o f 11 acres o f NDC-owned farm lands.
The Pierrot Water Catchment Group, which has been in existence for approximately three years,
initiated with the assistance o f relevant agencies, the prevention o f a housing development which
would have negatively impacted the water supply for that area. The Saint Lucia Ruminant
Producers Association in collaboration with the MAFF has developed proposals for the
utilization o f lands, on a communal basis for the upgrading o f stock and husbandry techniques in
the south o fthe island.

99.     These and other stakeholder groups are well placed to work with the National Climate
Change Committee to develop some measure o f decentralization to the work o f Committee.
Through the identification o f the existing linkages with some o f the issues /concerns o f these
groups and the possible climate change scenarios, there will be opportunities created for the
widespread dissemination o f information and ultimately, a change o f attitude toward possible
adaptation strategies.

100.    Pilot Project Objectives and Activities:
                        -
The ratification in 1993 by the Government o f Saint Lucia o f the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change was a clear demonstration o f its commitment to meeting the
goals o f the convention. While the Government has pledged to take all feasible action to foster
the mitigation o f global greenhouse emissions, it recognizes the even more urgent need to
implement measures to adapt to climate change. The Government through its National
Emergency Management Office (NEMO) is currently engaged in a Hazard Mitigation and
Vulnerability Assessment Project

101.    The primary objectives o f this project would be to develop and promote sustainable
development strategies that would result in increased resilience to the impacts of climate
variability and climate change. The specific objectives are in keeping with the priority actions
identified inthe Plan:
1. To implement measures aimed at more efficient use o favailable water supplies and increased
    resilience to water scarcity conditions (seen as contributing to the development o f a National
    Water Resources Management Plan);
2. To develop and implement an integrated coordinated and sustained climate change education
     and awarenessprogramme targeting all sectors andrelevant interest groups.

St. Vincent and the Grenadines

102.    Background
St. Vincent and the Grenadines i s an archipelagic island state in the Eastern Caribbean.        It
consists o f 30 islands and cays with a total area o f 345 Km2.The Grenadines extends 45 miles
south o f the main islando f St. Vincent (see Figure 10).




                                                  52

103.     The islando f St. Vincent i s extremely rugged with > 20% o f the landmass falling below
20'. The island has a north south central mountain range with one o f the world's largest active
volcano located to the north o f this mountain range. This volcano, L a Soufiere, had four major
eruptions between 1812 and 1997. The Grenadines are much smaller and less rugged but they are
not free o f volcanic influence being in close proximity to the underwater volcano "Kick em
Jenny". This i s the only active submarine volcano in the Lesser Antilles. It i s believed that an
eruption o f this volcano could cause significant tidal wave (tsunami) affecting much o f the
Eastern Caribbean.

104.     Preliminary vulnerability studies conducted for St. Vincent under the CPACC project
show the islandto be extremely vulnerable to sea-level rise and associated storm surges. Studies
conducted along the north eastern (windward) coast o f the island recorded erosion rates o f 1.6
d y e a r between the period 1995 and 2000 with one area at Orange Hill loosing 15 m over the
same period.

105.     The main population centres housing 85% o f the population lies on a narrow coastal strip
less than 5 m above sea level and less than 5 km from high water mark. Few areas in the
Grenadines lie < 5 km from high water mark. The built-up area accounting for 90 % o f the
country's economic investment i s situated in this coastal band. The five small air-strips serving
St. Vincent and the Grenadines are situated on partially reclaimed land.

106.     Agriculture, which accounted for 14.6% o f the GDP in 1980, fell to 6% in 2000. This
does not give a true reflection o f the level o f agricultural activity in the country. Census figures
for 2000 show 60% o f the population involved in agriculture occupying 43% o f the land mass.
Although agriculture is restricted to the area below the 1000 foot contour, it is not unusual to see
cultivation at 3000 feet.      Agriculture at this altitude has serious implications for soil
conservation, biodiversity protection, and water resource management.

107.     St. Vincent and the Grenadines is signatory to the United Nations Framework Convention
on Climate Change, the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Convention to Combat
Desertification. St. Vincent and the Grenadines ratified the UNCCD on September 6th 1996. In
2000, the country submitted its Initial National Communication (INC) to the Conference o f
Parties (COP) which met inThe Hague. The country has since carried out its Technology Needs
Assessment and i s in the process o f preparing a project proposal for the Second National
Communication. Other environmental initiatives undertaken by St. Vincent to benefit the global
environment include the Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, the National Capacity Self-
Assessment, and the Preparation o f the National Action Plan to address land degradation under
the UNCCD. The country also has a draft climate change policy document and i s inthe process
o f developing aNational Environmental Management Strategy.

108.     Implementation o f actions under these initiatives has been slow. Inmany instances there
are capacity (institutional, human and financial) constraints but the absence o f a clearly defined
plan to address global environmental challenges and the absence o f appropriate technology and
supporting structures at the regional and sub-regional level i s also to blame. This project request
i s an attempt to bridge these gaps. By working through a regional institution (CCCCC) and
sharing experiences and best practices from the region, adaptation processes can be developed



                                                   53

and strengthened to ensure sustainability of the approach and the benefits. Pilot adaptation
 activities are to be undertaken inthree sites, and include:
 (i)     IntegratedEcosystem Approach to Climate Change on the island of Bequia;
 (ii)    IntegratedEcosystem Approach to Climate Change on Union Island; and
(iii)    Climate Change RiskManagement for SpringVillage (St. Vincent).


 1.      IntegratedEcosystemApproachto ClimateChangeon the islandof Bequia:
 109.    The entire island of Bequia i s the project site and efforts would be made to include the
entire population and the administrative centre on the island. Bequia, the. largest of the
Grenadines island is approximately 7 sq miles in size with a population of 4,874 (1991 census).
Due to its size and geology, the island has no surface water and no known underground source.
Approximately 30% of the island i s covered with scrub vegetation of no market significance.

 110.    The livelihoodof the people of Bequia is tied to the surrounding coastal sea. Most natives
are fisher folks or sailors. Backyard gardening i s practiced but agriculture i s not a significant
activity on the island.

                                                               111. Although several species of
                                                               lizards and birds are found on the
                                                               island there are no endangered
                                                               species or    species endemic       to
                                                               Bequia.     The major biodiversity
                                                               issues relate to the marine species
                                                               like the hump-back whale and the
                                                               leatherback     turtle.      Whales
                                                               occasionally stray into the warm
                                                               waters around Bequia and are caught
                                                               as a traditional cultural practice for
                                                              food. Under CITES, St. Vincent and
                                                              the Grenadines i s allowed to harvest
                                                              four whales per year, however, there
                                                              are some years when no whale i s
                                                              caught.

                                                               112. There i s a local initiative to
                                                              rescue hatchlings and eggs of the
leatherback turtle and nurse them into safer sizes before release into the ocean. There i s no
control on the taking of adults and fish pots are still used to trap pelagic and reef fish with no
control on mesh size.

113.     Port Elizabeth, the capital of Bequia i s a harbour town. On an average day as many as
fifty yachts are anchored in this harbour. With the associatedbuilt up, shore-line settlement, the
harbour i s seriously impacted by anthropogenic waste. The other bays around Bequia are less
impacted by human activities but are equally impacted by wave action and storm surges. Natural
shore line protection such as mangroves have been compromised by development. The small



                                                  54

airport and part o f the fisheries complex on the island are built on reclaimed land making them
extremely vulnerable to coastal impacts. Given the absence o f surface water and the calciferous
nature o f the soil, fresh water resource i s a major issue for Bequia.

2.      IntegratedEcosystemApproachto ClimateChangeon UnionIsland:
114.    The entire 4 square mile island is the project site. The island i s o f coral formation and
sits on the edge o f the lesser Antelles volcanic shield. The island has no surface water or known
source o f ground water, instead there are three salt marshes and few remaining stands o f black
mangrove. These are the largest stands o fhealthy mangrove remaining inthe Grenadines.

115.    The island's lone airport is situated to the east on partially reclaimed lands. There is an
abandoned, incomplete marina in Clifton on a site that was formally Friggate Island (a marine
conservation site). The main harbour inthe capital Ashton is the busiest inthe Grenadines.

116.    Union Island i s the driest o f the Grenadine islands hence fresh water i s a priceless
resource as most o f it is imported. Approximately 80% o f the houses in Union Island have
underground storage tanks that catch rain water during the wet season.              The government
reservoir traps water that drains o f f the concrete surface o f one o fthe slopes.

117.    The 1935 residents on Union island extract their livelihood from the sea and from
tourism. Tourism i s the main economic activity on the island. Most tourist come by sea to enjoy
a cruise through the Tobago Cays. However, some tourists spend time driving around the island
or relaxing on it white sand beaches. The Union island Tourism Association (Union Island
Association for Ecological Protection) i s seeking to have an area to the west declared a
conservatiodprotected area.

118.    Because o f its remoteness and small population size Union Islandhas not received much
attention in the implementation o f MEAs. The Minister o f Health and the Environment has
therefore given support to the implementation o f this project in the Grenadines. In addition,
elements o f the Second National Communication under the UNFCCC and the Sustainable Land
Management Project under the UNCCD will be implemented inthe Grenadines including Union
Island.Priority development issues for UnionIsland include:
    0   Addressing the vulnerability o f the island to impacts on water supply and quality, and
        thereby obtaining an adequate supply o f fresh water to meet the needs o f the local
        populationand the tourist industry;
        Establishment o f a management system for the valuable coastal resources o f the island
        which are vulnerable to impacts from climate change;
    0   Development o f a sanitary landfill site to eliminate the open waste dump which i s the
        sight o f open burningand decay resulting inthe production o f GHGs;
    0   Over-fishing, decreased tourist arrivals and the absence o f a public awareness and
        environmental educationprogrammes.

119.    The aforementioned problems can find resonance in a climate change adaptation project
that takes on board the ongoing Sustainable Grenadines Project, elements o f the NCSA and the
evolving Second National Communication and Sustainable Land Management project. Local
organizations (stake holders) are calling for these linkages and have pledged their support for the



                                                   55

project. Activities planned for Union Islandinclude an awareness programme on mangroves and
local biodiversity as well as a forest conservation drive. There is an ongoing trail development
and management project as well as a biodiversity inventory. These activities are leadby the local
Tourism Association.

3.      Climate Change Risk Management for Spring Village (St. Vincent):
120.    The project site i s the Spring Village community from the mountain ridge to the coast     -
an area o f approximately 8 square miles with a population o f approximately 1800. This site is
typical o f the valleys o f St. Vincent making it easy to replicate any success obtained here from
the pilot adaptation measures.

121.    The mountain area to the North rises to approximately 2800 feet. Moving seawards, the
land falls to sea level in about six miles. The resulting steep slopes are the farmland of the
villagers. The large volume o f water coming down the river is only partially trained inthe lower
reaches. Inspite o f this, the residents live along the river edge as close as three meters from the
water edge. Lower down the valley i s the Leeward Highway- the only established access to the
north west o f the island. At the inter-phase between the sea and the river the water i s often
pushed landwards at hightide causing even more coastal erosion.

122.    St. Vincent and the Grenadines has ratified the UN Conventions on biological diversity,
climate change and desertificatiodland degradation. The Forestry Division o f the Ministry o f
Agriculture undertakes implementation o f various elements o f these conventions not as
Convention issues but as national development issues. Inthis regard, some work has been done
and i s ongoing in the areas o f forest management, soil conservation, wild life conservation and
watershed management.         However these efforts have not been sufficient to overcome the
livelihood challenges o f riverbank stabilization, farming and marketing issues and the control o f
the aides mosquito.

123.    The Spring Village Community i s located on the slopes and in the flood plain o f the
Mongoroo River. This community is under constant threat from the upstream floodwaters during
heavy rains. This pilot project is aimed at putting in place adaptation and risk management
procedures including early warning systems, public education for capacity building and training
for local community organizations including farmers to reduce the risk to ecosystems, civilian
life, property and vital infrastructure

124.    The major development priorities in this area relate to the management o f aquatic
ecosystems. The proposedrisk management and adaptation measures will include:
    0   Establishment o f landuse management planwhich should include zoning o f the area;
    0   Measures to address potential for flash floods;
    0   Measures to address food security issues which become a priority when farmers' crops
        are washed away or the landslides just prior to harvest;
    0   Measures to address coastal degradation (death o f coral, loss o f breeding ground for near-
        shore fish stock) resulting from flood waters coupled with storm surges;
    0   Vector control flood waters creatingbreeding grounds for mosquitoes.
                        -



                                                 56

        Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
IMPLEMENTATION OF ADAPTATION MEASURES INCOASTAL ZONES PROJECT



Sector Issue           Project Name          Status              Implementing Process
~~




Natural disaster       Colombia: Disaster    Ongoing             Moderately
management             Vulnerability                             satisfactory.
                       Reduction First Phase
                       APL
Climate change         The Caribbean:        Ongoing             Moderately
vulnerability, Natural Mainstreaming                             satisfactory.
disaster management,   Adaptation to Climate
Environmental          Change
policies and           (GEF)
institutions,
Vulnerability
assessment and
monitoring

Climate change         Caribbean Planning    Closed              Satisfactory
vulnerability          for Adaptation to
assessment,            Global Climate
adaptation planning    Change Project
and                    (GEF).
related capacity
building.

Climate Change         Adapting to Climate   Closed              Satisfactory
Vulnerability          Change inthe
assessment,            Caribbean (ACCC)
adaptation planning    Project
Adverse effects o f    OECS Emergency        Ongoing             Satisfactory
natural disasters      Recovery and Disaster
                       Management Program
                       (Dominica, Granada,
                       St. Kitts & Nevis,
                       Saint Lucia and
                       St. Vincent) (IBRD).


Restorationo f         Guyana: ElNiiio       Ongoing             Satisfactory
agricultural capacity  Project (IBRD)
indrought-stricken
areas; vulnerability




                                            57

reduction measures;
flood protection
and restoration o f
water supplies in
low-lyingareas.

Barrier reef          Mesoamerican Barrier Ongoing              Satisfactory
protection, coastal   Reef Project (GEF)
zone
management,
institutional

Rehabilitatehydraulic Saint Lucia          Ongoing              Satisfactory
infrastructureo f     Watershed and
priority watersheds;  Environmental
strengthen            Management Project
government capacity   (IBRD).
for environmental
management and
flood preparedness

Identification o f    Netherlands Climate  Firstphase concluded Satisfactory
impacts from          Change Studies       successfully
accelerated sea level Assistance Program   Second phase ongoing
rise (ASLR) due to    (Formerly NCCSAP,
climate change on the now NCAP)
coastal and insular   13 countries
areas o f Colombia    participating.
                      INVEMARexecuting
                      agency inColombia




                                          58

                            Annex 3: Results Frameworkand Monitoring
IMPLEMENTATION OF ADAPTATION MEASURES INCOASTAL ZONES PROJECT


                                        Results Framework



The project development            Ecosystem functioning in
objective i s to support efforts   Mome Diablotin and Mome
by Dominica, St. Luciaand          Trois Pitons National Parks in
St. Vincent and the                Dominica preserved (measured
Grenadines to implement            through the stabilizationof the
specific (integrated) pilot        populationof key flagship
adaptation measures                species, such as the
addressingprimarily, the           stabilization of 135 pairs of
impacts of climate change on       nesting parrots (A. imperials
their natural resource base,       andA. araucaria)), that i s
focused onbiodiversity and         affected by climate change
land degradation along             impacts.
coastal and near-coastal           Health of coastal ecosystems
areas. Reducingthese               intheVieux Fort area
impacts will induce economic       (measuredthrough the
benefits inthe tourism,            stabilization of the area,
fisheries, agriculture and         density andproductivity o f 60
forestry sectors, help             ha of coastal mangroves in
maintainthe resource base on       Mankote/ Savannes Bay), that
which these economic               are beingaffected by climate
activities rely and promote        change and other stressors is
climate resilient sustainable      stabilized (SaintLucia).
development.                       Lessons from strengthening of
                                   key infrastructure incorporated
                                   into local hazardsmanagement
                                   planand buildingguidelines in
                                   SaintLucia.
                                   Population of 25 ha of
                                   remainingBlack Mangrove
                                   (Avicennia sp) stands in Union
                                   Island (measuredthrough area
                                   coverage, density and
                                   productivity) affected by
                                   climate change i s stabilized
                                   (Suint Vincent& the
                                   Grenadines).
                                   Bequia island integrated
                                   natural resource management
                                   plan, including climate change
                                   biodiversity and land
                                   degradation concerns finalized,
                                   incorporatedinto national


                                                   59

                             development planning process.
                             Diversity o f coral reefs and
                             associatedspecies inthe
                             SpringVillage area, affected
                             by climate change and land
                             degradation impacts, i s
                             stabilized: Number and density
                             o f coral species has not
                             diminished over the lifetime of
                           . the project. (Suint Vincent h
                             the Grenadines).
                             GEFusesthe lessonslearned
                           . inat least oneGEFadaptation
                             project.
                             Contributions are made
                             towards better definition of
                             adaptation perfonnance
                             indicators.


Component 1.                 Feasible adaptation measures     This component providesthe basis
Identification, evaluation,  identified and designed         for further implementationof the
selection and design of      including updating and          project specific pilots. It seeks to
priority adaptation          complementingintegrated         produce site specific adaptation
measures                     ecosystem basedmanagement       measures,plannedand agreedwith
                             plans.                          the community, and with local and
                             Cost effectiveness analysis of  global benefits.
                             proposed adaptation
                             investments preparedand used    Although the project does not seek
                             inthe selection of adaptation   a CDD type approach, the
                             measures.                       community will actively participate
                             Key monitoringmeasures          indefining priorities, guidingland
                             designed and established at the use planning and selecting an
                             local level inthe three         enforcement strategy according to
                             participatingcountries inorder  local conditions and institutions.
                             to measure and monitor
                             ecosystemsand resultant         The planningexperience will be
                             impact from pilot adaptation    documented as it i s expected to
                             measures.                       provide important lessons for SIDs
                             Community informationand        and developing nations.
                             empowerment activities
                             designed and established at the
                             identified sites inthe three
                             participatingcountries,
                             including early warning
                             systems.
                             Testingand review of the EIA
                             tool for climate change impacts
                             developed under MACC and
                             adoption in Saint Lucia.
Component2.                  Management Plan (buffer         Adaptation to Climate Change i s to


                                             60

Implementationof       areas, landuse planand          beaccomplished through capacity
adaptation measures    community enforcement           building at local, national and
                       strategy) adoptedupdated        regional level. The intermediate
                       addressing climate change       outcomes will provide most of the
                       impacts (projected changes in   lessonslearnedto be disseminated
                       rainfall patterns and           inthe region. Inparticular,
                       temperature increases) and      experience will be gained on:
                       establishing sound adaptation   updating natural reserve areas
                       measures onthe site as well as  management plans to incorporate
                       on neighbouringcommunities      GCC issues; community
                       inthe MorneDiablotin            involvement inthe planning
                       National Park (Dominica)        design, implementationand
                       and inthe Morne Trois Pitons    operationof site specific
                       National Park (Dominica)        adaptation intervention; landuse
                       Adaptation measures             planning utilizingstate of the art
                       implementedaimed at             tools and guidance from the
                       improvedwater demand            community; exploration of water
                       management to face              deficit vulnerability reduction
                       anticipated reductions inrun    actions and investments; provide a
                       offs causedby CC inVieux        tangible example o f the
                       Fort Region (St.Lucia),         requirements to retrofit vital
                       focused on impacts inthe        infrastructureto withstand
                       coastal mangroves inMankote/ otherwise catastrophic tropical
                       Savannes Bay.                   storms. The project will provide
                       Retrofitting of vital           important lessons as to community
                       infrastructure to withstand     participationand riskmanagement
                       increased hurricane intensity   / hazardprevention initiatives.
                       and other extreme events
                       projectedunder climate
                       scenarios, inthe Castries
                       region of St. Lucia.
                       IntegratedIslandResource
                       Management planfor Bequia
                       Island adopted by the
                       community, addressing fresh
                       water needs and coastal
                       vulnerabilities while reducing
                       land degradation and
                       protecting the island's fragile
                       biodiversity.
                       Management planfor
                       conservation of remaining
                       stands of 25 ha of Black
                       Mangrove formulated and
                       adopted by local community in
                       UnionIsland.
                       Water management measures
                       adopted as identified inthe
                       Local area managementplan
                       (St. Vincent) for Spring
                       Village and adjacent coral


                                       61

                           reefs.

Component 3:            .  Participating countries each   The key output of this component
Strengthen national        adopt a National Sustainable   i s guidance on a unified framework
capacity to implement      Development Strategy which     to efficiently report onthe three
multiple MEA obligations   integrates climate change,     mainUNconventions: Global
with an integrated and     biodiversity conservation, and Climate Change, Desertification,
holistic operational       landdegradationmanagement      and Biodiversity.
                        .
framework                  within nationaldevelopment
                           planning frameworks
                           A harmonized MEA reporting
                           framework i s developed.
                           Strengthenednational and
                           local capacity instage I11
                           adaptation.




                                          62

         g
         5:
           .$j
         R 'f




   -8
,..E
   v)




                  ;?
                  3
                  2;
                  = % ?
                  8;i

-

aif

i?
k        i?    i?


E
E        kI kk
         k     I

         CL  I,




  B
  & $
z"




I                   I I



                              Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
IMPLEMENTATIONOFADAPTATION MEASURESINCOASTAL ZONES PROJECT


1.      The project would support three activities (components) prioritised innational adaptation
strategies and refined through a series o f national consultations.

2.      Componentone: Identification, Evaluation, Selection and Design o f priority adaptation
measures addressing impacts o f climate change on biodiversity and land degradation (total cost
$1.5 million; GEF funding $0.2 million). Under this component the following activities will be
supported:

        3,      Sub-component 1 - Feasibility Analysis of proposed adaptation measures. This
        subcomponent will include: (a) provision o f data by public institutions that enables
        assessment o f the current ecosystem and physical condition and trends incoastal areas o f
        the Participating Countries; (b) provision o f data by the MRI that estimates current and
        future temperature and rainfall patterns along proposed project sites; (c) analysis o f
        specific climate change impacts, primarily concerningbiodiversity o f global significance
        and assessment o f alternatives including, inter alia, technical, environmental, social,
        institutional, andrisk and cost analyses; and (d) selection o f recommended actions.
        Sub-component 2 Design of adaptation measures. This subcomponent will support: (a)
                            -
        Technical, engineering design; (b) environmental and social management plans; (c)
        community participation; (d) M&E system design to measure the impacts o f adopted
        measures; (e) establishment and adoption o f plans and cooperation agreements by
        participating countries     with local and regional institutions and agencies for
        implementation o f adaptation measures.

4.      Component two: Implementationof adaptation measures (total cost $2.35 million,
GEFfunding$1.5 milion). The project will support the coordination and implementation, on a
pilot basis, o f selected adaptation measures in seven sites in the participang countries thereby
enhancing the resilience o f insular ecosystems under significant threat from climate change and
land degradation impacts. The investments will: (i)      establish measures to reduce pressures on
biodiversity arising from habitat conversion and climate change impacts (Dominica, St.
Vincent); (ii)establish measures to counter habitat fragmentation through establishment o f
marine and coastal protection measures (Bequia and Union Islands, Grenadines); (iii)         adoption
o f integrated approaches to fisheries management that consider reduction o f pressures (Dominca,
Saint Lucia ); (iv) establish adaptation strategies related to coral reefs that consider the inertia in
the climate change system and focus on reducing anthropogenic stresses (Dominica); (v) restores
healthy mangroves cover and restoration o f mangroves (Saint Lucia ); (vi) strengthening o f key
infrastructure to intensified hurricane winds and storm surges in Castries (Saint Lucia) and (vii)
establishment o f measures to enhance the resilience o f aquatic systems and watershed areas (St.
Vincent, Saint Lucia ,Dominica).

Under this component the following activitieswill be supported:




                                                  68

5.      Sub-component 1 -Coordination of adaptation measures in the participating
countries. This subcomponent will support the coordination and implementation o f the
selected adaptation measures in seven sites within the participating countries. The
following activities will be supported: (a) Provision o f data for analyzing the pressures on
biodiversity   and land degradation        ffom    anticipated    climate  projections;   (b)
In-country coordination and supervision by each participating country on the
implementation o f the relevant adaptation measures in consultation with local
communities.

6.      Sub-component 2 - Implementation of adaptation measures in the Morne
Diablotin National Park and its Neighboring Communities (Dominica) identified in
updated management plan under component 1. This subcomponent would support
specific adaptation measures to address the impacts o f GCC on biodiversity and on land
degradation issues and to reduce threats and vulnerabilities in the Morne Diablotin
National Park and in its neighboring coastal communities o f Colihaut, Dublanc and
Bioche including for associated marine and coastal ecosystems. The activities supported
include:
(i)Developingaparkmanagementplanconsistent withthelanduseplanofadjoining
buffers areas that will protect biodiversity o f global importance, incorporating climate
change considerations (such as modifications in rainfall patterns temperature increases
and changes in ecosystems composition), and corresponding enforcement strategy
adopted by the community and to be implemented with the community; (ii)          Measures to
address water supply deficits inter alia: rain harvesting, demand management, provision
o f water storage, expansion o f existing system, water efficient household appliances; (iii)
Flood risk analysis that includes the identification o f flood prone areas where no dwelling
development should take place (land zoning); key flood mitigation actions; strengthening
institutional and community ability to enforce adopted landzoning.

7.      Specific adaptation measures under consideration include, inter alia: (a)
agreements on land use in buffer areas compatible with the protection o f the National
Park, and mechanisms for implementing new agro-forestry practices where required,
including enforcement strategies; (b) land use changes that increase watershed retention
times, as a mean to reduce flood hazards downstream; (c) improve water availability
through demand management; rain harvesting, water retention structures,                  and
conservation o f water producing areas; and, (d) strengthening Park monitoring efforts
combined with community awareness and involvement programs.

8.      Sub-component 3     - Morne Trois Pitons National Park Integrated Ecosystem
Management (Dominica): The project would address biodiversity and land degradation
issues and vulnerabilities to climate change in a globally significant World Heritage Site,
by: (a) updating and complementing the management plan for the Morne Trois Pitons
National Park; and (b) establishment o f pilot adaptation measures to enhance the
resilience o f aquatic systems and watershed areas and improvement to water resource
management so as to enhance the capabilities for sustainable development o f adjoining
communities thereby reducing stress on the Morne Trois Pitons National Park.



                                          69

9.      These will be pursued by: (i)        A participatory revision o f the protected area
management plan to address climate change vulnerabilities; (ii)development o f a
participatory land use plan for the buffer area and surrounding watershed basins. These
plans will among other things address: (a) water management measures. (b) land
degradation measures to reduce erosion, foster biodiversity, and reduce the impact on
neighboring marine ecosystem; (d) neighboring coastal marine ecosystem management
options agreeable to the community, environmentally sustainable, and resilient to the
impacts o f global warming.

10.     Sub-component 4 Sustainability of Water Resources and Suppij of the Vieux
                             -
Fort Region (Saint Lucia): Saint Lucia's public water utility, WASCO, i s suffering from
numerous problems including growing water shortages, insufficient cash flow to cover
costs, lack o f regulation, and loss o f consumer confidence. Since 2000, the Bank has been
working with the Government to find a sustainable solution for the sector. The strategy
selected i s a public-private partnership (PPP) for the utility. In parallel, the Bank i s
financing an urgent investment program in order to fix the immediate supply problems
and restore consumers' good will.
11.     This subcomponent seeks to complement the government's water program by
establishing adaptation measures that would result in increased resilience to the impacts
o f climate variability andclimate change inthe Vieux Fort Region o f Saint Lucia, and the
proposed Pointe Sable National Park. It also builds upon the substantial work
accomplished in the areas o f risk assessment (CPACC, ACCC, MACC) and currently
underway in the Vieux-Fort watershed on vulnerability (MACC, CRMI). Specifically,
activities will be implemented to enhance the efficient use o f available water supplies and
increased resilience to water scarcity conditions anticipated from climate change impacts.
The project will fund activities like: (i)incentive scheme to encourage use o f water
saving devices at the national level and locals (use o f brown water; rain water harvesting;
appropriate technology) and pilot the incentive scheme in the Vieux Fort region; (ii)
measures to reduce sediment production in the watershed through improved cultural
practices indegraded lands thereby enhancing resilience o f coastal marine ecosystem and
local habitats for endangered communities. Options include the selection o f appropriate,
drought tolerant vegetation and agrosystems that reduce soil losses, protect biodiversity,
and reduce farmers' income vulnerability. (iii)     establishment o f river buffer and other
measures to enhance the resilience o f river ecosystems and water catchment areas; (iv)
protected areas management planlinkingthe upper watershed with the coastal and marine
resources o f Pointe Sable.

12.     Sub-component 5 - Strengthened critical coastal infrastructure in the Castries
area (Saint Lucia). This pilot adaptation measure seeks to demonstrate the design and
implementation o f appropriate interventions to reinforce critical infrastructure (hospitals,
shelters, fire stations and storm barriers) to the effects on intensified hurricanes and
tropical storms, in the Castries region o f Saint Lucia. The Caribbean islands need to
build critical infrastructure that can withstand the increased frequency o f tropical storms
(a change associated with global warming) to serve as pillars for disaster management



                                           70

    and reconstruction. The project will provide for the scientific and engineering services
    requiredto assess vulnerabilities, define priorities and retrofit one specific building.

    13.     Sub-component 6     -  Integrated Ecosystem Approach to Climate Change in
   Bequia and Union Islands (St. Vincent and the Grenadines): This i s designed to
    support national efforts aimed at integrating climate change adaptation principles into
    ecosystem management. The project will focus on the implementation o f adaptation
    measures to address fresh water needs and coastal vulnerabilities while reducing land
    degradation and protecting the fragile biodiversity in the two islands o f Bequia and
    Union. All activities will involve the Islands' NGOs, Government Agencies, the private
    sector and representatives o f civil society. The project will support the establishment o f
    adaptation measures to address biodiversity, land degradation issues and vulnerabilities.
    After the initial activities o f feasibility assessment and prioritization o f adaptation
    measures, the following type o f activities might be implemented:
    (i) measures to protect Black Mangrove ecosystems from further degradation caused by
    subsidence and saline intrusion; (ii)introduction o f drought resistant crops; (ii)replanting
    o f vegetation on slopes and training local participants in appropriate silviculture methods,
    including the identification and use o f drought resistant vegetation; (iii)sustainable
    fishing (managing fish-pots, seasonal takes, reef protection) in conjunction with the
    Sustainable Grenadines Project and other community-based NGOs, to address the
    vulnerability o f fisheries resources to the impacts from climate change; and, (iv)
    strategies to address fresh water needs to obtain an adequate supply o f fresh water to
   meet the needs o f the local population and the tourist industry.

    14.     Sub-component 7 Climate Change Risk Management for Spring Village (St.
                               -
    Vincent and the Grenadines): This pilot site exemplifies adaptation to climate change in
    an environment characterized by advanced land degradation. Flooding and sedimentation
    compound the problem, affecting strategic island infrastructure as well as dwellings from
   poor segments o f the community. The project will support the implementation o f
   adaptation measures to address land degradation and its impact on coastal and marine
   ecosystems. In this regard the project activities will support community participation in
   land use planning and interventions, to be selected during the completion o f component
   one. The project will also support river-bank stabilization measures, the implementation
   o f mitigation and adaptation measures to reduce the risk o f landslides and flash flooding;
   coastal degradation, and the development o f natural hazards contingency plans.

15.         Component Three: Strengthen national capacity to implement multiple
Multi-lateral environmental agreements (MEA) (total cost US$0.78 million; GEF US$
0.2 million). This component, (mostly be financed by third party and counterpart
contributions), would finance goods and services required to develop and establish the
building blocks for addressing multiple convention objectives as adopted by the three
governments and promoted by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change (UNFCCC), Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and United Nations
Convention to combat desertification and droughts (UNCCD). To this end the project will
support:




                                             71

       16.      Sub-component I Development o f a harmonized national reporting framework
                                     -
       (i.e., legal, institutional and management structures) by each Participating Country that
       integrates climate change, biodiversity and land degradation obligations under the
      United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Convention on
       Biological Diversity, and the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification and
       Drought, coordinated among the three Participating Countries.


       17.      Sub-component 2 Provision o f technical assistance by IUCN to Participating
                                     -
       Countries to develop a single report usingthe harmonized national reporting framework
      referredto inPart 3.1 above.


       18.      Sub-component 3      - Testing o f the application o f the harmonized framework,
      referred to in Part 3.1 above, in relation to specific adaptation measures under Part 2 o f
      this Project.

19.   Component Four: Project Management (total cost US$ 0.82 m, GEF funding US$
   0.2 m). This component will support:

      20.       Sub-component I Overall technical coordination o f Project Activities (including
                                     -
      the implementation o f a technical monitoring system) as well as the administrative and
      financial management o f the Project, and annual audits;

      21.       Sub-component 2       - Operational costs directly related to the implementation,
      management and monitoring o f the Project (which expenditure would not have been
      incurred absent the Project), consisting o f equipment lease and maintenance, utilities,
      office and scientific supplies and equipment, communications, vehicle fuel, bank charges,
      travel and per diem o f Project staff, and salaries o f core Project staff (Project coordinator,
      procurement specialist, and other required personnel for the Project management) hired
      for the duration o f the Project, but excluding salaries o f any permanent staff o f the
      Recipient.

      22.       Under this component a communication strategy o f the results o f the project will
      also be developed for communicating the results o f the project to other projects and to
      distribute information. The elements o f the strategy include the upgrading o f the web site
      o f the CCCCC, the development o f a monthly electronic and printed newsletter, the
      participation in global and regional fora on adaptation, and the publication o f the
      description o f the pilots and o f the lessons learned inadequate technicaljournals.


                            Summary of measures under consideration

      Country           Measure under consideration               Location          Stakeholders
      Dominica          Park managementplan                       Morne            Park service. Local
                        ((a) stakeholders agreements on land use  Diablotin        communities
                        inbufferareas compatiblewiththe           NationalPark



                                                  72

            protection o fthe National Park, and create
            mechanisms for implementing new agro-
            forestry practices where required,
            including agreed enforcement strategies;
            (b) landusechangesthat increase
            watershed retentiontimes, as a meanto
            reduce flood hazardsdownstream; (c)
            improve water availability through
            demand management; rainharvesting,
            water retention structures, and
            conservation of water producing areas;
            and,
            (d) strengthening Parkmonitoring efforts
            combined with community awarenessand
            involvement Dromams.)
Dominica    Park management plan                        Mourne Trois  Park service. Local
            ((a) water management measures.             Pitons        communities
            (b) landdegradation options to reduce       National Park
            erosion, foster biodiversity, and reduce
            the impact on neighboring marine
            ecosystem;
            (c) neighboring coastal marine ecosystem
            management options agreeableto the
            community, environmentally sustainable,
            and resilient to the impacts o f global
            warming.
Saint Lucia :(i) incentive schemeto encourageuse o f    Vieux Fort    Pierrot Wtare
            water savingdevices (use o f brownwater;    Region        Catchment Group,
            rainwater harvesting; appropriate                         Vieux Fort local
            technology) and pilot the incentive                       communities
            scheme inthe Vieux Fort region; (ii)
            measuresto reduce sediment production
            inthe watershed through improved
            cultural practices indegraded lands
            (options include the selection of
            appropriate, drought tolerant vegetation
            and agrosystemsthat reduce soil losses,
            protect biodiversity, and reduce farmers'
            income vulnerability) (iii)  establishment
            of river buffer and other measuresto
            enhancethe resilience o f river ecosystems
            and water catchment areas; (iv) protected
            areas management planlinkingthe upper
            watershed with the coastal and marine
            resourceso f Pointe Sable.

Saint Lucia Reinforce critical infrastructure(hospitals, Castries     Castries Municipal
            shelters, fire stations and stormbarriers)                Government
            to the effects on intensifiedhurricanes and
            tropical storms, inthe Castries region of
            Saint Lucia.


                                          73

St. Vincent    (i)    measuresto protect Black Mangrove    Bequia and     Local
& the          ecosystemsfrom further degradation          UnionIslands   communities
Grenadines  causedby subsidence and saline intrusion;
               (ii)   introduction of drought resistant
            crops; (ii)     replantingo f vegetation on
               slopes andtraining localparticipants in
               appropriate silviculture methods,
               including the identificationand use of
               drought resistant vegetation; (iii)
               sustainable fishing (managing fish-pots,
               seasonaltakes, reefprotection) in
               conjunctionwith the Sustainable
               Grenadines Project and other community-
               basedNGOs, to address the vulnerability
                of fisheries resources to the impacts &om
                climate change; and, (iv) strategies to
                address fresh water needs to obtain an
                adequate supply of fi-esh water to meet the
                needs o f the localpopulation and the
                tourist industry.

                                                            St. Vincent   Local
               ~~    ~
St. Vincent     Measures to address land degradation and
& the           its impact on coastal andmarine                           communities
Grenadines      ecosystems.                                              I




                                              74

   Project Cost By Component        Governments"   Other     GEP      Total

          and/or Activity           US$mi~on     usSrnillion
                                                  donors**  $million
                                                             GS        us
                                                                     $ w o n




                                       0.30         0.32      0,20      032
Totat Basefinc cost                    1.50         1.84      2.10      5.44
 Physical ~ o n ~ i n ~ e n ~ ~ ~ ~
 Price C    ~    ~es   ~    ~    n   ~    ~     ~  ~     i
               Total Project costs'    I.5          I.84         2.1    5*44
        Interest during c ~ n ~ t ~ c ~ ~ o ~
                      Front-end Fee
        Total F ~ n ~ nRequired
                           ~ i n ~     1.s          1.84         2.1    5.44




                                      75

                            Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements
IMPLEMENTATIONOFADAPTATION MEASURES INCOASTAL ZONES PROJECT



1.      General implementation arrangements: The GEF grant recipient will be the Caribbean
Community Climate Change Center (CCCCC) which will implement the project. The CCCCC
(see Annex 7) is a legal entity o f the Caribbean Community (CARICOM). The center i s being
financed through grants from the Government o f Italy, budgetary support form the Government
o f Belize and other regional contributions. The project does not contribute resources to the
hnctioning o f the center.

2.      The administration and financial management of the project will be undertakenby the
CCCCC as the project implementing entity which will enter into subsidiary agreements with
each o f the participating governments. All payments will be made by the CCCCC which has
established Accounting Unit that is headed by a Qualifiedaccountant.

3.      Technical implementation arrangements: Given the sub-regional nature o f the project,
the CCCCC will retain a Project Manager with strong management skills. He/she will be
assisted by a Technical Coordinator to manage the development and implementation of
country-level, site-specific climate change adaptation measures.

4.      Project implementation is expected to be shared and carried out by CCCCC with the
cooperation o f the three participating countries and the international, regional and national
agencies. Each participating country is expected to assign a National Coordinator as part o f the
organizational structure o f the project. The national coordinator will be responsible for the
following activities: developing a work-plan to undertake national level activities and integrate
with regional activities; coordinating national level activities; liaising with local communities to
design and implement site specific activities; developing TORSfor the national level activities;
assisting the CCCCC in the selection and management o f consultants; assisting with the
monitoring and evaluation o f national level project activities; preparing monthly progress reports
for submission to the CCCCC; and ensuring the timely execution o f community level activities.
These coordinators will be appointed from Government staff as part o f the country contribution.
They will report to the Ministries o f Environment and to the CCCCC for the coordinated tasks.

5.      Implementationarrangements for Dominica:

6.      For pilot adaptation measures implemented in Dominica, the National Coordinator will
be established within the Environmental Coordinating Unit (ECU) o f the Ministry o f
Agriculture, Fisheries and the Environment. Consistent with its role, the ECU will oversee the
activities o f the national coordinator and will ensure (through the office o f the Permanent
Secretary) that the outputs o f the project are fed into the development planning process and are
hlly integrated into the programmes o f the relevant Ministries and agencies o f Government. The
ECU will be required to submit quarterly progress reports to the Minister o f Agriculture,
Fisheries and the Environment for onward submission to the Cabinet o f Ministers.




                                                 76

7.      Implementationarrangements for Saint Lucia:

8.      For pilot adaptation measures implemented in the Vieux Fort area o f Saint Lucia, the
Project Coordinator will report directly to the Climate Change NFP and ultimately to the
Permanent Secretary o f the Ministry o f Physical Development Environment and Housing. A
Steering Committee comprising four representatives o f the National Climate Change
Committee (representing at least the Agriculture, Tourism and Water sectors) and four from the
project site Stakeholder groups (Southern Tourism Development Corporation, Southern
Development Corporation, Laborie Development Foundation, Pierrot Water Catchment Group)
will provide the day to day guidance andoversight to the PMU. Technical Sub-committees co-
opting other members o f the National Climate Change Committee and Stakeholder Groups may
be convened as and when required.

9.      Implementation arrangements for St. Vincent and the Grenadines:

10.     For pilot adaptation measures implemented on Bequia Island (St. Vincent and the
Grenadines), the project will be executed by the Environmental Unit in the Ministry o f Health
and the Environment o f the Government o f St. Vincent and the Grenadines. There will be a
project steering committee consisting o f the National Environmental Advisory Board and
representatives o f the participating NGOs. There are two active groups on Bequia namely the
UNESCO SandwatcWSmall Island Voice Youth and the Paget Farm Sport, Cultural &
Environmental Organization. These groups will be involved inthe day to day monitoring o f the
project.

11.     For pilot adaptation measures implemented in Union Island (St. Vincent and the
Grenadines) there are at least three active groups in Union Island with environmental
management as their focus. These groups are prepared to take the lead at the local level in the
implementation o f this project. Consequently, the steering committee for this project will
include representatives from these groups along with the personal from government (Ministry o f
Health and the Environment, Central Planning, Forestry and Fishery Departments o f the Ministry
o f Agriculture). As in all cases for the project the Environmental Services Coordinator as focal
point for the UNFCCC will be the national focal point. The project will be based in the
Ministryo fHealthandthe Environment with the CCCCC as Implementing Agency.

12.     For pilot adaptation measures implemented in Spring Village Community (St. Vincent
and the Grenadines), there is no functional Community Based Organizations (CBO) o f Non-
government Organization (NGO) in this area.             Consequently, the National Emergency
Management Office (NEMO) i s spearheading this effort as a result o f their frequent response to
threats and damage in the area. It i s therefore envisioned that a steering committee lead by
NEMO and including the St. Vincent Electricity Company (VINLEC), the Department o f
Forestry, the Physical Planning Department, the Ministry o f Health and the Environment and
members o f the community. These groups have been meeting for some time on the matter. The
project will be housed in the Environmental Services Unit o f the Ministry o f Health and the
Environment and will serve as national project coordinator to liaise with the Implementing
Agency (CCCCC), and other regional and international partners.




                                                 77

13.    Monitoring and Evaluation: The CCCCC will submit to the Bank bi-annual project
progress reports demonstrating the project development, the financial and physical performance
indicators. The Bank will conduct technical visits to jointly review progress made against
objectives and performance indicators. Regular monitoring o f project activities will be the
responsibility o f the CCCCC, which will prepare semi-annual reports on the implementation
progress.

14.    Mid-term reviews will be carried out not later than 30 months after the Project Start, to
undertake an in depth review o f the progress o f the project and to evaluate the project's
implementation arrangements. The CCCCC will, not later than one month before the date o f such
review, carry out an.independent evaluation o fprogress.




                                               78

               Annex 7: CaribbeanCommunityClimateChangeCenter (CCCCC)
IMPLEMENTATION OFADAPTATION MEASURESINCOASTALZONES PROJECT


1. Background: ClimateChangeandthe CaribbeanCommunity

1.      A key achievement o f the CPACC-MACC transition was the creation o f indigenous
institutional capacity. CPACC established a working network o f institutions to coordinate and
implement regional efforts in climate change adaptation. It also developed a strong technical
base capable o f providing leadership in the regional effort on climate change, as well as policy
advice and momentum. While this institutional arrangement delivered on the objectives o f
CPACC, it was only intended as a transitional step. An institutional home to anchor the technical
capacity o f the region, developed over the life o f the CPACC project was required.

2.      The Caribbean region will likely benefit from global adaptation resources because o f the
expected permanent impacts from climate change over which it has little control or influence. In
this context, the Centre is designed to play several roles. First and foremost, it i s expected to
become a "regional center o f e~cellence"'~in capacity building, technical assistance, and
coordination, as well as a support mechanism to the CARICOM countries inthe areas o f climate
change adaptation andmitigation. Specifically, the Centre i s designed to be:

        0    An advisory body on climate change policy to the CARICOM Secretariat and its
             member countries, and a source o f scientific and technical information on climate
             change and its potential impacts on the region.
        0    A coordinating body for climate change adaptation and mitigation activities,
             enhancing institutional effectiveness and maximizing synergies and cross-sectoral
             linkages among multiple stakeholders, national and regional institutions (public and
             private).
        0    A resource mobilization and devolution institution for regional and national activities
             inthe field o fclimate change.

3.      The Centre will be serving as an "articulating mechanism" for mainstreamingthe
climate change agenda. The Centre is expected to build upon existing capacity within national
or regional institutions (public and private) that are largely focused on specific sectors or
disciplines, and to leverage their resources in addressing and responding to climate change. It
addresses the perceived need for a coordinating mechanism to maximize the use o f scarce
regional expertise, and for mainstreaming climate change adaptation and mitigation into national
development policies and strategies as well as private sector activities.

4.      As a regional center to facilitate the development o f an agenda on climate change, mostly
implemented by existing sector agencies at the national and regional levels, the Centre will rely
on a limited number o f core staffproviding: (a) vision and direction for the climate change



l4Capacity Development Initiative(2001), produced bythe GEFand UNDP, with technical assistancefromthe World Bank and
UNEP.


                                                         79

program in the region; (b) strong technical expertise with state-of-the-art knowledge on technical
issues; (c) financial management; and (d) policy analysis. The Center's creation was mandated at
a meeting o f CARICOM's heads o f state in early 2001. It was inaugurated on August 2,2005 in
Belize, by its prime minister. The first years o f operational costs will be funded through a grant
from the Italian Government, allowing the Centre to establish its credentials. The Centre is now
expected to implement both M A C C and the project. It i s now the logical house for all adaptation
efforts inthe region.

2. The CCCCC and its Role

5.      The Climate Change Centre is a,CARICOM specialized agency with an independent
management that comprises:

     0  A Governing Council o f Ministers o f Member Governments with responsibility for
        environmental policy matters;

     0  A Board o f Governors responsible for strategic planning. Currently, the Chairman o f the
        Board i s a Coordinating Lead Author (CLA) on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
        Change (IPCC) Working Group 11, as well as A Special Envoy on Environment for the
        Government o f Barbados;

     0  A Technical Secretariat headed by a Director with responsibility for tactical planning,
        operations and management.

6.      Inits role as the agency for regional climate change projects andprogrammes, the Centre
i s recognizedby the UNFCCC, the UNEP, and other international agencies as the focal point for
regional climate change issues. It i s also the repository and clearing house for regional climate
change data, and it provides advice and guidelines to the CARICOM Member States through the
Secretariat. The CCCCC has access to considerable expertise in climate change related areas
centralized within the region.

3. The LegalMandate of the Centre

7.      Article 20 o f the Agreement Establishing the CCCCC describes the Legal Status o f the
Centre (page 20 o f the agreement). The article states:

     1.     The Centre shall possess fulljuridical personality and, inparticular, full capacity to:
            a.      Contract;
            b.      Acquire and dispose o f moveable andimmoveable property;
            c.      Institute legal proceedings.

     2.     The Centre may enter into agreements with Members, third States and other
            international organizations for the achievement o f its objectives.

     3.     Inany legalproceedings, the Centre shallberepresentedbythe Director.




                                                 80

4. The Operational Structure of the CCCCC

8.             The staff o f the Technical Secretariat consists o f a central core headed by a
Director and an extended core o f regional experts. The Director with the support o f the extended
core o f regional experts/institutions i s responsible to plan and execute programmes/projects o f
national and regional interest. Regional institutions include the University o f the West Indies, the
Universities o f Belize and Guyana, the Caribbean Institute o f Meteorology and Hydrology and
other CARICOM institutions. Shown in Appendix 1 i s an organizational chart o f the Technical
Secretariat.

5. FinancialManagement Framework of the CCCCC

9.      Its Financial Procedures and Accounting System Manual govern the Financial
Management Framework o f the CCCCC. In addition its procurement staff has received training
at the World Bank facilities inits financial management procedures and practices.

10.     Its Procurement Manual guides the CCCCC inits day-to-day procurement practices. Its
procurement staff has receivedtraining at the World Bank facilities inits procurement
procedures and practices.

6. The CCCCC Operating Revenue

11.    The mechanismto acquire revenue to meet the operational financial requirements o f the
Centre includes:


    0  Grantsfrom:
            o Governments and international agencies and organizations: 85% o f all operating
               costs are funded from grant extended by the governments o f Italy, Belize and
               Barbados. For the next 2 years the Government o f Italy has granted the CCCCC
               with operating resources that cover 55% o f its costs. The Government o f Belize
               also supports the Center with its facilities and operational resources amounting
               25% o f its estimated requirements. The Government o f Barbados also contributes
               with 5% o fthe Center's operational needs.
    0  Execution Fees from services provided complement the Center's operating resources
       (15%) and allows for the expansion o f its core technical and supporting staff. This
       income comes from:
            o Climate change projects inthe region;
            o Fundedprojects under the UNFCCC;
            o Certification services under the Clean Development Mechanism;




                                                 81

   BoardOF
  Governors




82

             Annex 8: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
IMPLEMENTATION OF ADAPTATION MEASURES INCOASTAL ZONES PROJECT


1.     Between March 23 and 24, 2006, an assessment was undertaken o f the financial
management systems o f the Accounting Unit o f The Caribbean Community Climate Change
Center (CCCCC). The mainrecommendations o f the assessment were:

  1. Accounting System. In order to produce the necessary financial reports for the World
       Bank (and possibly other donors), it is imperative that in the short term, the chart o f
       accounts in Quickbooks be modified to allow for the capturing o f financial information
       by project component. In the long run, as the Center is intending to implement an
       increasing number o f externally-funded projects by various donors (such as the World
       Bank, Canadian and other governments), it might need to implement a new, more
       sophisticated system with multi-currency capability and the ability to produce financial
       reports directly from the system (without the use o f an excel spreadsheet).

  2. Staffing. The majority o f MACC's financial activities are currently being performed by
       the CARICOM secretariat. These include preparing disbursement applications, financial
       reports, payments to vendors and contractors and submission o f the external audit. Given
       that project administration i s being shifted to the Center, the Center will be expected to
       undertake these activities. The increased workload i s expected to require additional staff
       (at least one additional Accounting Assistant) and the conversion o f the Finance Officer
       into a full-time position.

  3. External Audit. The terms o f reference for the external audit should be modified to
       include specific language to ensure that a separate opinion and financial statement for
       each grant administered by the Center be included inthe final report.

  4. Operational Manual. The existing operational manual should be updated with new
       information such as the new chart o f accounts and the policy for travel advances, and
       finalized for distribution. Inaddition, the Operational Manual should include, inannexes,
       specific information to follow for each donor or project (as necessary).

  5. Segregation of Duties. Inorder to ensure segregation o f duties, the person requestingthe
       good or service should complete the purchase order and obtain the necessary approval.
       Properly approved documents should then be submitted to the Accounting Assistant.

  6. Recording and Monitoring Fixed Assets. Assets donated by the Government o f Belize
       should appear as Assets for the Center and be monitored (including the location and
       responsible person) through the use o f the fixed asset register. Future assets purchased
       by the Center should also be included inthe fixed asset register.




                                                83

2. Flow of Funds
The GEF Grant would be channeled to the project through a Designated Account denominated in
USDollars to be established bythe CCCCC at abank satisfactory to the Bank(Scotia Bank).An
initial deposit out o f the GEF Funds will be made to the Designated Account equivalent to
US$210,000 until the World Bank determines, based on the amounts and frequency o f
withdrawal applications that a higher balance is necessary. Payments made from the Designated
Account would require two signatures, one from the Director and the other from the Project
Manager.

3. Accounting System and Financial Reporting
Currently, the Center produces basic financial reports, such as a balance sheet, income statement
and cash flow statement, which are shared with the management o f the organization for decision
making purposes. The center also produces financial disbursement reports for donors, such as
Statements o f Expenditures (SOEs) for World Bank projects.          While, the basic reports are
produced directly from the system, donor reports are generally produced in excel (from the data
obtained from the system). Under the proposed project CCCCC would be required to prepare
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), to be submitted to the World Bank semi-annually. The
format o f the FMRs would be agreed during negotiations. The Center i s currently utilizing
Quickbooks to record and classify financial transactions related to the operation o f the Center.
Financial transactions are recorded in the system accounts using the double-entry system of
bookkeeping. The project accounting system has the capacity to record assets, liabilities and
financial transactions o f each project, and produce basic financial statements useful to decision
makingand meeting donor requirements. The chart o f accounts is relatively straight forward and
is primarilybased on the type o f expenditures incurred. The accounts as a whole are balanced at
the end o f each month and relevant financial statements are prepared and submitted to the
Director whenever needed (at least once a month). Currently, the accounting system has the
ability to capture project financial information by category (for example, the Bank's
legal/disbursement categories) and by sources o f financing.

4.      However, the system has the following weaknesses: (1) it does not have the ability to
capture project financial information by project component and sub-component, (2) it provides
very limited flexibility in terms o f producing financial reports (the system has a fixed reporting
format and does not provide much flexibility), (3) the system does not have multi-currency
capability, and (4) the system does not offer the ability to monitor procurement activities. Inthe
short term, the chart o f accounts will have to be modified to allow for the capturing o f financial
information by component.       In the long run, as the Center is intending to implement an
increasing number o f externally-funded projects by various donors (such as the World Bank,
Canadian and other governments), it might need to implement a new, more sophisticated system
with multi-currency capability and the ability to produce financial reports directly from the
system (without the use o f an excel spreadsheet).

5. Internal Audit
Currently, the Center does not have any plans to develop an internal audit department. The
Center will rely on the external audit performed by independent auditors to assess its internal
control system, and make the necessary improvements (recommended by the auditors).



                                                 84

 6. ExternalAudit
 Under the proposed project, the entity financial statements would be audited by an independent
 auditor satisfactory to the World Bank. The audit reports would be prepared in accordance with
 International Standards on Auditing following Terms o f Reference (TORS)satisfactory to the
 World Bank. The audit reports would include supporting schedules providing sufficient
 information on the Sources and Uses o f Funds, Statement o f Expenditures (SOE) and the
 Designated Account pertaining to the GEF Grant. The amounts in these financial statements
 would be required to be reconciled with the amounts in the World Bank's disbursement records.
 The annual audit reports would be submitted to the World Bank no later than 4 months following
 the end o f the fiscal year (January - December). As the CCCCC is currently managing two
 grants financed by the World Bank for which audit reports will need to be provided, and since
 only a single (entity) audit would be performed, the terms o f reference for the audits would
 specifically include language to ensure that a separate opinion and financial statement for each
 grant be included inthe final report.

 7. Disbursement Arrangements
 The disbursements under the Project would be transaction based. Disbursements will be made on
 the basis o f full documentation, provided in advance, for all expenditures above the prior review
 threshold. For all other eligible expenditures, goods costing less than US$50,000 contracts for
 consulting firms costing less than US$50,000 and for contracts for individual consultants costing
 less than US$25,000 disbursement would be on the basis o f SOEs. For expenditures made on the
 basis o f SOEs, CCCCC would maintain the supporting documentation for the expenditures for
 review by visiting Bank supervision missions and by the independent auditors. All direct
 contracting for goods and single source selection for consultants would be subject to prior review
 regardless o f amount. The authorized allocation would be deposited into the Designated
 Account; the authorized allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$210,000 until
 the World Bank determines based on the amounts and frequencies o f withdrawal applications
 that a higher balance is necessary.

 8. Allocation of Grant Proceeds

-
               Category               Amount of the Grant Allocated     Percentage of Expenditures
                                           (expressed in USD)                 to be Financed
                                                                            (inclusive of Taxes)
 (1) Goods andconsultants'                       200,000                            100%
 servicesfor Part 1ofthe Project,
 with the exceptionof subparts
 l.l(a), l.l(b) and 1.2(e)

 (2) Goods, works andconsultants'               1,500,000                           100%
 services for Part2 ofthe Project,
 with the exceptionof subpart 2.1

 (3) Goods and consultants'                      200,000                            100%



                                                 85

I services for Part 3.3 of the Project

  (4) Goods and consultants'                 200,000                         100%
  services for Part 4 of the Project

  TOTAL AMOUNT                               2,100'000




  OpenDesignatedAccount              ccccc              Effectiveness


  Submit first FMRs                  ccccc              45 days after the end of the
                                                        first 6 months after
                                                        effectiveness
  Modify Chart of Accounts to       CCCCC               BoardPresentation
  capture components, fmancing
  sources, and currencies
  Select New Accounting             ccccc               BoardPresentation


  PrepareTOR for Audit              ccccc               Negotiations
  Engagement
  Appointment of Audit fm           ccccc               BoardPresentation
I Update
  Operations
         Operational Manual        ICCCCC              IBoardPresentation

  Hire additional staff for the     ccccc               BoardPresentation
  Accounting Unit




                                             86

                             Annex 9: ProcurementArrangements
IMPLEMENTATION OF ADAPTATION MEASURES INCOASTAL ZONES PROJECT


A. General
1.      Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The various items under different
expenditure categories are described in general below. For each contract to be financed by the
Grant, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-
qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least
annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
institutional capacity.

2.      Procurement of Works: Works procured under this project would include: minor civil
works such as modeling, coastal and river protection measures, establishment of monitoring
platforms and others. If procurement o f works under ICB and N C B is envisaged, the
procurement will be done using the Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments (SBD) for all ICB and
National SBD agreed with or satisfactory to the Bank. The draft standard bidding document for
N C B has been approved.

3.      Works estimated to cost less than US$150,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis o f quotations obtained from three
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a
detailed description o f the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a
basic form o f agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest evaluated price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.

4.      Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project would include: computer
hardware and software, office equipment, geological and spacial measurement and monitoring
equipment, specialized detection and site monitoring equipment. Ifprocurement o f goods under
ICB and N C B i s envisaged, the procurement will be done using the Bank's SBD for all ICB and
National SBD agreed with or satisfactory to the Bank. This biddingdocument will be approved
by negotiations.

5.      To the extent possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into biddingpackages o f
more than $150,000 equivalent and procured following International Competitive Bidding(ICB)
procedures, using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Contracts with estimated
values below this threshold per contract [and above US$25,000] may be procured usingNational
Competitive Bidding(NCB) procedures and standard bidding documents agreed with the Bank.
Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into larger biddingpackages and estimated to cost




                                                 87

less than US$25,000 per contract may be procured using shopping (NationaMnternational)
procedures based on a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.

6.      Selection o f Consultants: Analytical studies; assessment, identification, monitoring and
evaluation services; supervision and audit services; training and other consulting services will be
financed under this grant. Individual consultants may also be hired to provide advisory services
in specialized fields of expertise and also to assist in project implementation activities. These
services are estimated to cost US$ 1.024 million equivalent (US$ 0.624 million consultant
services and US$ 0.4 million training services and logistics) and will be procured using Bank
Standard Request for Proposals.

7.      Firms:All contracts for firms would beprocured usingQuality-and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS) except for small and simple contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000
equivalent that would be procured using other methods o f procurement as specified in the
Procurement Plan.

8.      Individuals: Specialized advisory services and assistance in project implementation
would be provided by individual consultants selected by comparison o f qualifications o f at least
three candidates and hired inaccordance with the provisions o fparagraphs 5.1 through 5.4 o f the
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount o f US$0.5 million.

9.      Operating Costs: Operating costs will include reasonable expenditures to carry out the
project such as travel and per diem costs for official project staff and personnel commissioned
under the project; office equipment, supplies and utilities, operation and maintenance (including
spare parts) o f vehicles, boats and other equipment assigned to the project will be financed by the
grant proceeds and will be procured under procedures acceptable to the Bank up to a total
amount o f US$ 0.150 million equivalent.

10.     The procurement procedures and SBDs to be used for each procurement method, as well
as model contracts for works and goods procured, are presented in the Project Implementation
Manual.


B. Assessmentof the agency's capacity to implement procurement
11.     Procurement activities will be carried out by CCCCC. The CCCCC has a Technical
Secretariat and i s staffed by a Director in charge o f the following units: Procurement Unit,
Accounting Unit, Technical Coordinating Unit, Information Coordinating Unit.                   The
procurement function will be carried out by Ms. Barbara Locke, Procurement Officer, who will
be hired on a part-time basis from the Social Investment Fund(SIF). She will be assisted by Ms.
Rosalie Gentle, who will be on a two-year secondment to the CCCCC from the Government.
Both staff have received one-on-one Bank procurement training provided at the Bank's
headquarters inApril 2006 and are considered qualified for the positions.
An assessment o f the capacity o f the Implementing Agency to implement procurement actions
for the project has been carried out by Judith Morroy inApril 2006. The assessment reviewed the
organizational structure for implementing the project and the interaction between the project's
staff responsible for procurement.



                                                88

12.     The key issues and risks concerning procurement for implementation o f the project have
been identified and include: the CCCCC is a new unit whose new part-time Procurement Officer
is relatively new to Bank procurement, having worked as a Finance Officer in the SIF; the unit
has been involved insome procurement o fprojects funded by the Bank, including a PHRD Grant
and a Project Development Fund, Block B (PDFB), as well as some funded by other agencies.
The corrective measures which have been agreed are:             CCCCC will hire an additional
procurement staff; this person will be seconded for two years from a Government Ministry; the
Bank's procurement staff has provided one-on-one training to the two procurement staff who
visited the Bank in April 2006; the Bank has reviewed SIF's bidding documents for N C B and
Shopping, and provided sample bidding documents to be modified for CCCCC as appropriate;
capacity buildingactivities will be provided on an ongoing basis duringsupervision missions.

13.     The overall project risk for procurement i s HIGH.


C. Procurement Plan

14.     The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a draft procurement plan for project
implementation which provides the basis for the procurement methods and the prior review
thresholds. This draft plan has been reviewed between the Borrower and the Project Team on
April 4, 2006 and was approved on April 29, 2006. The procurement plan is available at the
office o f CCCCC inBelize, and will also be available inthe project's database and inthe Bank's
external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team
annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
institutional capacity.

D. Frequency ofProcurement Supervision
15.     In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the
capacity assessment o f the Implementing Agency has recommended two supervision missions
duringthe first year o f implementation to visit the field to carry out post review o f procurement
actions and to provide procurement guidance as needed. Insubsequent years, a procurement post
review will be carried out once a year, provided that procurement capacity has improved.

E. Details of the ProcurementArrangements InvolvingInternational Competition

1. Goods, Works, and NonConsulting Services

(a) List o f contract packages to be procured following ICB and direct contracting:

None envisaged

(b) Ifenvisaged, all ICB contracts and all direct contracting will be subject to prior review by the
Bank. The Procurement Plan specifies other procurementmethods and prior review thresholds.


2. Consulting Services


                                                  89

(a) List o f consulting assignments with short-list o f international firms.

  1              2                    3          1 4          5           6          17

  Ref.No.        Description       of Estimate    Selection   Review      Expected     Comments
                 Assignment           d           Method      by Bank     Proposals
                                      cost                    (Prior    I Submission
                                                              Post)
  Project-F-     Consultant services                          Prior
  DO-QCBS-       to assist
  01             communities (a)
                 develop a climate-
                 proofed" national
                 parks plan; (b)
                 implement specific
                 adaptation measures;
                 (c) implement
                 monitoring
                 measures,
                  (identified and
                 developed in
                 Component 1)

(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract (firms) and
all single source selection o f consultants (firms and individuals) regardless o f contract amount as
well as individual consultant contracts estimated to cost above US$50,000 will be subject to
prior review by the Bank. The Procurement Plan specifies procurement methods and prior
review thresholds, as outlined inthe table below.

(c) Short lists composed entirely o f national consultants: Short lists o f consultants for services
estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f
national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant
Guidelines.




                                                  90

       Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsandPriorReview(inUS$ thousands)


Expenditure        ContractValue               Procurement               Contracts
 Category            (Threshold)                 Method               Subjectto Prior
                                                                           Review

  Works         >1,000                 ICB                            All

                >150 - 1,000           NCB                            >500 All
                                                                      4 0 0 First
                <150                   3 Quotations                   First

  Goods         >150                   ICB                            All

                >25 - 150              N C B                          First

                <25                    Shopping                       First

                Regardless of value    Direct Contracting:            All

  Consultant
  Services      >loo                   QCBS,QBS,FBS,LCS,CQS           All
  Firms
                4 0 0                                9,               TOR (by TTL)

                Regardless of value    Single Source                  All

                >50                    Comparison of 3 CVs            All (byTTL)
  Individuals
                <50                    Chapter V of Guidelines        TOR (by TTL)

                Regardless of value    Single Source                  All (byTTL)


Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection QBS= Quality-Based Selection
FBS = FixedBudget Selection      LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                  CQS = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications




                                         91

                           Annex 10: Economicand FinancialAnalysis
IMPLEMENTATION OF ADAPTATION MEASURES INCOASTAL ZONES PROJECT


1.      The project will demonstrate its economic efficiency at three levels: (a) the pilot nature o f
the project provides efficiency because it saves learning cost, evaluates design assumptions, and
permits adjustments o f the measures before its replication at a national level is being replicated;
(b) the preliminary economic analysis o f a selected adaptation measure in each component will
highlight economic benefits higher than the economic costs o f implementing them, as the
experience in other adaptation pilots has provided; and, (c) the procurement procedures adopted
bytheproject will favor minimumcost for significant acquisition o f goods andservices.

2.      Pilots are efficient means to learn:
The project i s being designed as a pilot project, incorporating specific activities that will reduce
the costs o f replication at a broader level. To conduct pilots to test the adaptation measures
before the broader implementation i s efficient. Pilots test are associated with learning cost lower
than inthe full implementation phase. Pilots also prevent possible failures in the implementation
o f the measures because unforeseen factors or circumstances identified in the pilot phase that
could be taken into consideration in the replication phase. All design activities will include:
evaluation o f different alternatives for implementing the adaptation measures, evaluation o f
assumptions, local parameters, response factors, cost efficiency evaluation o f measures and
performance monitoring.

3.      The pilot approach i s particularly critical for climate change adaptation project. Effective
implementation o f adaptation measures is new in the climate change regime and developing
countries need to adjust potential adaptation measures to their national circumstances. N A P
project will pioneer effective implementation o f adaptation measures in three different sectors,
providing useful information not only for national-replication, but for regional an international
replication.

4.      Economic assessment o f selected interventions:
A preliminary economic analysis o f selected adaptation measures in each component will be
undertaken to illustrate the economic efficiency o f the type o f adaptation measures covered by
the project. The analysis will assess direct economic benefits and costs associated with the
adaptation measures applying standard economic methodology. Following previous experiences
it is expected that the cost-benefit ratio for each measure will show higher economic benefits
thancost inall cases.

5.      Economic analyses o f proposed adaptation measures will be undertaken as part o f the
design process (Component I).Inthe economic analysis consideration will be given to the long
term character o f the expected benefits and costs. Community, national and sectoral benefits will
be identified and quantified as part o f the analysis. An incremental cost analysis and an
accounting o f local and global benefits will also be included. A financial analysis will be
conducted as part o f the selection process for site specific adaptation measures, which will guide
the decision-making process for the identification o f appropriate and economic efficient
interventions. Duringproject implementation data will be gathered to assess actual benefits and
costs o fpilot measures.


                                                  92

                              Annex 11: IncrementalCost Analysis
IMPLEMENTATION OFADAPTATION MEASURES INCOASTAL ZONES PROJECT


1.      The proposed GEF project objective is to support efforts by these the participating
countries (Dominica, Saint Lucia and St. Vincent and the Grenadines) to implement specific
pilot adaptation measures addressing the impacts o f climate change on biodiversity and land
degradation along coastal and near-coastal areas.

2.      Project components were design to cover all necessary steps for effective preparation for
climate change adaptation: the evaluation design and selection o f adaptation measures
(component l),    the implementation o f pilot adaptation measures covering the main impacts o f
climate change to small island developing countries (component 2), and the institutional
arrangement necessary to effective respond to the commitments o f UN climate change,
biological diversity and desertification Conventions.

3.      The proposed GEF project will provide complementary support to existing and planned
(baseline) local activities related with water availability, watershed and coastal management,
National Parks conservation, disaster managing and sustainable fishing.

4.      The project is aimed to achieve global objectives not only relating with the preparation o f
participating countries on adaptation measures to cope with the major global climate change
impacts on its resources, but also to address the interlinkages between climate change and
biodiversity and land degradation inan integratedmanner.

BroadDevelopmentGoals and the Baseline

5.      As expected impacts o f global climate change affect local natural resources, national
development goals o f the project activities are related with their conservation and sustainable
use, as well as the improvement o f the well being o f the communities that use them. Takinginto
account that components 1 and 2 are closely related, and that the adaptation measures covers
different topics inthe participating countries, the development goals and baseline analysis will be
presented treating both components as one but following the issues covered by the pilot
adaptation measures o f component 2.

6.      Development goals o f subcomponent 1 and 2- Implementation of adaptation measures in
the Morne Diablotin National Park and its Neighboring Communities (Dominica) identified in
updated management plan, and Morne Trois Pitons National Park Integrated Ecosystem
Management (Dominica) includes the provision o f potable water to neighboring communities,
and the conservation and sustainable management o f ecosystems in Morne Diablotin National
Park and Morne Trois Pitons National Park.

7.      Baseline scenario o f the subcomponent 1 relates with the priorities o f the Village
Councils responsible for the supply o f potable water to the communities directed to the
maintenance o f the water intake, as it i s constantly blocked in the rainy season, as well as the
expansion o f the water system coverage, as the financial resources are available. Additionally it


                                                 93

i s expected that the Dominica Water Resource Management Plan should include activities such
as the establishment o f a National Water Board, the development o f water resource management
legislation and the inventory/mapping o f surface and underground water resources.

8.       With respect to the Conservation and sustainable management o f ecosystems in Morne
Diablotin National Park and Morne Trois Pitons National Park, baseline scenario relates with the
establishment and strengthening o f the LandManagement Unit that will undertake activities such
as: terrestrial and coastal resource inventory and the development o f appropriate legal and
institutional structure (guideline, zoning, setbacks etc.). Similarly, the NBSAP includes a the
project for the identification and protection o f threatened ecosystems and species, with activities
such as the identification o f threatened ecosystems, negotiation with land owners and the
development o f management programs for conservation.

9.       Development goals o f subcomponent 3     - Sustainabilityo f Water Resources and Supply o f
the Vieux Fort Region (Saint Lucia), are set by the National Water Policy that has been approved
by the Cabinet o f Ministers o f Saint Lucia, as well as the priorities set by the Saint Lucia main
institutions in charge o f watershed management and protected areas: the Departments o f
Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry in the Ministry o f Agriculture, the National Conservation
Authority, and the Ministry o f Physical Development, Environment and Housing.

10.      The development goal set by the National Water Policy is to sustain economic growth,
human development and environmental sustainability by promoting and facilitating the use and
management o f freshwater resources in an efficient sustainable and equitable manner that i s
consistent with the social, economic and environmental needs o f current and future generations
as well as with the country's international obligations. Subcomponent 3 will directly contribute
to this development goal.

11.      The Baseline scenario for subcomponent 3 i s the continuation o f the Water and Sewerage
Company (WASCO) program for metering and strengthening maintenance o f water system,
aimed at reducing levels current high levels (47%) o f unaccounted-for-water (UFW). Although
the National Water Policy contains a comprehensive group o f strategies and activities, including
the consideration o f GCC in the water availability, it is expected that the implementation plan
will focus on the urgent short term activities due to budget constraints such as the reform o f
water tariffs for charging the full cost o f water to users, and the combination o f administrative
and economic instruments, including water fees system to control access to and use o f ground
and surface water.

12.     Although there i s a national commitment to water management, including watershed
protection and the conservation and management o f coastal and marine ecosystems, the current
situation i s characterized by changes in land use that result in the loss o f agricultural lands and
consequent threats to sustainability and food. A National System Plan for Parks and Protected
Areas has been approved, but implementation has been slow.
Similarly there i s an absence o f an explicit forest policy and o f a current forest management
plans. Baseline scenario in this area will be the effective implementation o f the Protected Area
System and the development o f the forest policy.




                                                  94

13.     Development goal o f subcomponent 4 Strengthenedcritical coastal infrastructure in the
                                               -
Castries area (Saint Lucia) is to reduce or avoid damage to human settlements and infrastructure
caused by natural hazards set as a policy objective o f the Integrated Natural Hazard Risk
Management Policy and Strategy o f Saint Lucia.

14.     A number o f initiatives have been taken or are been planned by the Government to
reduce the impact o f damage due to natural hazards that constitute the baseline scenario. The
National Emergency Management Office (NEMO) and its Secretariat is in the process o f
revising the National Hazard Mitigation Plan to reflect an appreciation and commitment to
hazard risk reduction. A national building code is being developed to improve the construction
quality of structures and to minimize the impact o f hazard events on the Island's infrastructure
and properties. In this regard, the new Planning Act would provide the supporting legislative
framework under which the BuildingCode would be implemented.

15.     Disaster mitigation efforts have focused on a post-disaster approach which i s essential in
disaster response, recovery and rehabilitation. InMarch 2004, the Caribbean Development Bank
approved a loan o f US$5.45 million to finance appropriate flood mitigation measures in Castries
and Anse La Raye. The project will be implemented bythe Special Projects Unitinthe Ministry
o f Communication, Works, Transport and Public Utilities.

16.     Development goal o f subcomponent 5 - Integrated Ecosystem Approach to Climate
Change in Bequia and Union Islands (St. Vincent and the Grenadines), relates with increasing
the well being o f the Bequia and Union Island communities that depend on fishing and
agriculture as their main economic activities and that suffer from lack o f fresh water availability.

17.     Baseline scenario for subcomponent 5 is defined by St. Vincent and Grenadines priorities
in these issues. Government efforts with respect to fisheries in Bequia and Union Island are
focused in complying with the requirements imposed by the European Commission for export
fish and fishery products to the European Union. For that purpose, the Governmenthas designed
a project that will be finance with external loans. The project objective i s to refurbish and
upgrade the fishery collection centers in Bequia and train staff to operate them to required
standards. Other projects included inthe Fisheries Division o f the Ministry o f Agriculture, Lands
and Fisheries Corporate Plan 2006 - 2008, are the marine turtle conservation program, habitat
enhancement project and fisheries development program.

18.     Development goal o f subcomponent 6        -  Subcomponent 6 - Climate Change Risk
Management for Spring Village (St. Vincent and the Grenadines), i s the reduction o f
vulnerability o f flash flooding and erosion in Spring Village area associated with land
degradation, deforestation and land use change.

19.     Baseline scenario i s determined by the Government efforts to reduce the causes o f
flooding and erosion. Government activities include: reforestation, the reintroduction o f contour
farming and the use o f Vetiva grass and bamboo in soil stabilization, riverbank stabilization
programme using gabions baskets, while coastal erosion i s being addressed through sand mining
regulations and the planting o f Pandanas and coconut palm both in the Grenadines and on the
mainland.



                                                95

20.     Finally, as component 3 - Strengthen national capacity to implement multiple MEA
obligations within an integrated and holistic operational framework, has an exclusive
institutional global objective, it i s not relevant to identify a national development goal associated
with this component. Nevertheless, it is important to highlight that the component will
significantly increase participating countries capacity for undertaking integrated sustainable
development plans, and will also strengthen the national institutional framework for sustainable
development ina cost-efficient manner.

21.     Baseline scenario o f component 3 i s related with the current institutional framework o f
the three participating countries to implement MEA obligations: national focal points,
responsible institutions and planningprocedures.

2. Global Environmental Objective

22.     The project has a strong global environmental objective as it simultaneously addresses
the impact o f a global environmental problem, climate change, on strategic local resources (Le.
fresh water, fisheries, agriculture and infrastructure) as well as on strategic global resources (i.e.
forest ecosystems and coral reefs).

23. The project addresses key vulnerabilities as identified in the National Communications
Climate Change Adaptation Policy, and National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan that has
been developed and approved by each country.              Therefore the main global environmental
objective is to prepare participating countries for adaptation to the main identified global climate
change impacts by assessing, selecting, designing and implementing pilot adaptation measures,
with "a learningby doing" approach.

24.     In addition to climate change adaptation objective, the project also will contribute to
biodiversity conservation objectives. The project will support the design and implementation o f
specific adaptation measures that will enhance the resilience o f vulnerable, globally-important
ecosystems and biodiversity, including the primary forest o f the Morne Diablotin National Park
(Dominica), the undisturbed rain forests o f the Morne Trois Pitons National Park and World
Heritage Site (Dominica), the only remaining Caribbean island with old growth forest (Union
Island), and the sensitive marine environment (coral reefs, coral veneers, sea grass beds and
offshore islands with rare and endangered species) o f the Maria Islands Nature Reserve and
proposed Pointe Sable National Park which are both RAMSAR designated sites (Saint Lucia ).

25. The adaptation measures will:

(i)establish measures to reduce pressures on biodiversity arising from habitat conversion and
climate change impacts (Dominica, St. Vincent);

(ii)establishmeasuresto counter habitat fragmentationthroughestablishment ofmarine and
coastal protection measures (Bequia and Union Islands, Grenadines);




                                                   96

(iii) integrated approachesto fisheries managementthat consider reductionofpressures
     adopt
(Dominca, Saint Lucia );

(iv) establish adaptation strategies related to coral reefs that focus on reducing anthropogenic
stresses (Dominica);

(v) restore mangrove cover (Saint Lucia );

(vi) strengthen key infrastructure to withstand intensified hurricane winds and storm surges in
Castries (Saint Lucia) and

(vii) enhance the resilience o f aquatic systems and watershed areas (St. Vincent, Saint Lucia ,
Dominica).

26.     Finally, in the institutional area, the project will contribute to strengthening the
institutional countries capacity to implementation o f MEA with an integrated and holistic
approach. This will reinforce the multilateral environmental policy inthe region.

3. Alternative

27.     GEF alternative will meet baseline development goals o f sustainable management o f
natural resources as well as the global environmental objective o f reduction and prevention o f
expected Global Climate Change, inparticular:

a. Reducing the pressures on biodiversity in national Parks arising from habitat conversion
through landuse planning, land zoning and management plans, will enhance the resilience o f the
ecosystems to climate change, as well as will contribute to national objectives o f reducing
flooding, erosion and land degradation. (subcomponent 1,2,3, 6)

b. Identifyingalternative sources o f water supply (rainwater harvesting systems) and promoting
water efficiency will reduce the climate change vulnerability o f communities as well as
contribute to national freshwater supply objectives (subcomponent 1,2, 3 and 5).

c. Identifying alternative agricultural crops and vegetation tolerant to droughts will reduce
communities vulnerability to climate change as well as will secure national objectives o f food
security and increase well being o f rural communities. (subcomponent 5)

d. Training fishermen in sustainable fishing (managing fish-pots, seasonal takes, reef protection)
will prepare them to cope with climate change impacts on fish species, will promote the
conservation o f marine ecosystems and species, as well as contribute to the national objective o f
increase income and well being o f fisherman communities. (subcomponent 5)

e.  Implementing measures related with infrastructure assessment and reinforcement
interventions, as well as riverbank stabilization, will reduce the climate change vulnerability to
the increase o f extreme weather events and flash flooding, and will also contribute to national




                                                97

objectives    o f minimizing natural hazards impacts and reducing post-disaster               costs
(subcomponent 4,6).

28.      Least-cost option o f GEF alternative i s guaranteed by the feasibility analysis and the
design subcomponent included in component 1 which comprise the assessment o f the
alternatives including issues such as technical, cost-analysis, institutional and risk.

4. Scope of the Analysis

29.      The Project boundary encompassesthe geographically the areas o f intervention where the
pilot adaptation measures o f components 1 and 2 will be implemented. These areas are: in
Dominica: i)Morne Diablotin National Park and in its neighboring coastal communities o f
Colihaut, Dublanc and Bioche including for associated marine and coastal ecosystems. ii)Morne
Trois Pitons National Park, its buffer area, surrounding watershed basins and coastal marine
ecosystems. In Saint Lucia i)Vieux Fort Region and the proposed Pointe Sable National Park ii)
Castries Region. And in Saint Vincent and Grenadines: i)Bequia and Union Islands ii)Spring
Village.

30.      At an institutional level, the analysis was limited to the official institutions with
responsibilities on implementing project activities or baseline development goals.             The
institutions involved inthe project boundary are: InDominica: Ministry o f Agriculture, Fisheries
and the Environment and Water Utility DOWASCO; in Saint Lucia: Ministry o f Agriculture,
Fisheries and Forestry, National Emergency Management Office (NEMO), and Water Utility
WASCO; and in Saint Vincent and Grenadines: Ministry o f Agriculture (including Forestry
Division), and Ministry o f Health and the Environment.

5. costs

31.     Baseline costs were identified by consulting official investment plans o f the institutions
included in the project boundary (scope o f analysis), selecting specific programs and activities
that relate with the ecosystem or element that will be affected by global climate change
addressedby the project.

32.     When the investment plans does not specify the projected geographical location o f the
investment, the total cost was reduced applying the ratio o f the corresponding project boundary
area compared with the total jurisdictional area o f the institution. All figures were estimated in
present values and converted to US dollars using the official exchange rate o f $2.7 East
Caribbean dollars per US dollar.

33.     Baseline costs for subcomponent 1 and 2 are based on Dominica National Biodiversity
Strategy and Action Plan, inparticular, allocated resources for the following projects: Integrated
Land (Resource) Use Planning and Management (USD 1.5 million), Comprehensive Water
Resource Management Plan (USD 750.000) and the Identification and Protection o f Threatened
Ecosystems and Species (USD 650.000).




                                                 98

34.     Baseline costs for subcomponent 3 are based on the National Water Policy o f Saint
Lucia.

35.     Baseline costs for subcomponent 4 are based on the cost o f the approved loan by the
Caribbean Development Bank in 2004 to finance appropriate flood mitigation measures in
Castries and Anse L a Raye (USD$ 5.45 million).

36.     Baseline costs for subcomponent 5 are based on the Corporate Plan o f the Fisheries
Division o f the Ministry o f Agriculture, Lands and Fisheries o f Saint Vincent and Grenadines, in
particular the following projects: Upgrade o f the Union IslandFisheries Centre (USD$ 667.000),
marine turtle conservation program (USD$ 216.000), habitat enhancement project (USD$
13.000) and fisheries development program (USD$67.000).

37.     Finally, baseline costs for subcomponent 6 are based on the National Report to the
UNCCD, which estimates that Saint Vincent and Grenadines Government's cost for combating
desertificationi s approximately USD$ 1.5 million.

38.     GEF alternative incorporates both the baseline costs o f the plan, activities and systems
necessary to deliver the domestic benefits, as well as the cost o f activities required to adjust them
for reducingor preventing expected Global Climate Change impacts.

39.     Incremental costs are calculated as the difference between baseline costs and GEF
alternative, assuring that all the proposedproject activities are additional to the baseline scenario.




                                                99

                      cr
                      0 9            rw
                                     o s




0     0  0  o    0  0              0




0
CI




0  0  0     0 0            0 0  0          0SI

2                   x




a


                                 Annex 12: SafeguardPolicyIssues
IMPLEMENTATIONOFADAPTATION MEASURESINCOASTAL ZONES PROJECT


 1.     Preliminarily the Project has been identified as triggering the following safeguard
policies:
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01);
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04); and,
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)

2.      There are no major adverse social impacts expected as a result o f this project given the
nature o f the activities and interventions (pilot subprojects). In Dominica, the relatively large
land area and comparatively small population base has not caused the stresses on natural
resources use that are being witnessed in other countries in the region. Additionally, Dominica's
steep and rugged terrain has created a settlement pattern which favors coastal areas rather than
the densely vegetated mountain areas adjoining the national parks. In light o f these factors, it i s
unlikely that adaptation measures to be undertaken in either o f Dominica's national parks will
result in "restricting access to natural resource use for the neighboring communities". Indeed, the
objective o f the project is to empower local communities to manage their own resources so as to
reduce vulnerability to climate change impacts. Any adaptation measures that are implemented
will only be done once appropriated interventions have been identified by local communities.
The local communities have actively participated in the design o f these pilot projects, and are
keen to take an active role inthe development and implementation o f measures that will increase
community resilienceto climate change.

3.      EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01). During the design stage, execution o f
component one, each pilot adaptation measure will be subject to environmental screening and, if
required, detailed environmental assessment. Nevertheless, the pilot activities identified by the
participating governments through consultations do not represent a threat to the environment, nor
to natural habitats. On the contrary; the main thrust o f the activities i s to pilot adaptation
measures that protect, enhance or strengthen natural habitats ability to cope with the impacts o f
global warming and its environmental consequences.

4.      Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04).          As it is described in Annex 1 the participating
countries have unique natural habitats that ought to be protected and preserved. The project will
support only measures that will reduce the vulnerability o f these natural habitats to global
climate change and other anthropogenic interventions. As indicated above, activities
contemplated seek to foster global commons benefits, by increasing the resilience o f ecosystems
to withstand the negative impacts o f increased temperature, risingsea water levels, and changing
patterns o f rainfall. Although no alteration o f sensitive natural habitats i s expected, each
proposed pilot will be subject to an EIA and the corresponding EMP will be analyzed to
minimize the risks o fnegatively affect these ecosystems.

5.      Forests(OP/BP4.36). Forestry activities are aimed to reduce deforestation, enhance the
contribution o f forested areas, promote afforestation, and reduce the vulnerability o f neighboring
communities to GCC impacts. As a precautionary measure this safeguard will be highlighted

during project preparation and implementation to minimize the risks of unintended negative
impacts on national parks and World Natural Heritage Sites. Special emphasis will receive forest
issues during EIA preparation to assure a positive contribution to the resilience of these
ecosystems.




                                            103

                       Annex 13: ProjectPreparationand Supervision
IMPLEMENTATION OFADAPTATION MEASURESINCOASTAL ZONES PROJECT



                                                   Planned          Actual
PCNreview                                        09/13/2005        09/13/2005
Initial PID to PIC                               11/03/2004        02/03/2005
Initial ISDS to PIC                              11/03/2004        11/07/2005
Appraisal                                        10/07/2005        04/15/2006
Negotiations                                     10/17/2005        05/22/2006
Board/RVP approval                               01/13/2006        08/17/2006
Planneddate of effectiveness                     08/17/2006        12/17/2006
Planneddate ofmid-tern review                    08/17/2008        12/17/2008
Plannedclosing date                              08/17/2010        06/30/2011

Key institutions responsible for preparation ofthe project:

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                          Title                 Unit
Walter Vergara                    Task Manager/Lead Chemical       LCSEN
                                   Engineer and Environmental
                                            Specialist
Alejandro Deeb                             Hydrologist             LCSEN
Alonso Zarzar                            Social Scientist          LCSEO
SeraphineHaeussling                        Economist               LCSEN
HilarionBruneau                     DisbursementSpecialist         LOAGl
Judith C. Morroy                     Procurement Specialist        LCOPR
Emmanuel N.Njomo                     Financial Management          LCOAA
                                            Specialist
Tova Solo                            Disaster Management           LCFPS
                                            Specialist
Lisa Lui                                Country Lawyer             LEGOP


Bank funds expendedto dateonproject preparation:
    1. Bank resources:
    2. Trust funds:
    3. Total:

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remaining costs to approval:
    2. Estimated annual supervision cost:




                                               104

                          Annex 14: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
IMPLEMENTATIONOFADAPTATION MEASURESINCOASTAL ZONES PROJECT



Project Document: Planning for Adaptation to Global Climate Change Project, GEF, 1997
ImplementationCompletion Report: Planning for Adaptation to Global Climate Change Project,
GEF, 2002
Final Report o fthe Caribbean Planning for Adaptation to climate Change (CPACC) Project,
April 1997-December 2001, producedjointly by the Unit for Sustainable Development o fthe
Organization o fAmerican States and the CPACC Regional Project Implementation Unit,
Washington D.C. - Barbados, August 2002
Project Appraisal Document: MainstreamingAdaptation to Climate Change Project, GEF, 2003
PROJECTDEVELOPMENT      FACILITY:REQUESTFORPIPELINEENTRYAND PDFBLOCKBAPPROVAL:
Implementationo fPilot Adaptation Measures incoastal areas o f Dominica, Saint Lucia and St.
Vincent & the Grenadines, 2004.
LatinAmerica and Caribbean Region; Sustainable Development Working Paper 25: Adapting to
Climate Change, Lessons Learned, Work inProgress, and Proposed Next Steps for the World
BankinLatinAmerica, October 2005, byWalter Vergara.




                                             105

                               Annex 15: Statementof Loans and Credits
IMPLEMENTATION OFADAPTATION MEASURES INCOASTAL ZONES PROJECT


                                                       Dominica

                                                      03-Feb-2004




 Project ID FY              Purpose            IBRD     IDA     SF     GEF   Cancel   Undisb  orig    Rev'd
                                                                                                       Frm




 PO78841   2004 DMERSO                        1.50      I.50                  0.00    3.12    0.00    0.00

 PO77680   2002 Dominica- EmergencyRecovery   0.96      2.24                  0.00    2.16    0.31    0.00

                Project



                                       Total: 2.46      3.74                    0.00   5.28      0.31    0.00



                                                  STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                Held andDisbursedPortfolio
                                                     Oct 31 2003
                                                             -
                                                 InMillionsUS Dollars

                                                                                                           ~
                                                          Committed           Disbursed
                                                           IFC                          IFC




L                    I                         I       I      I       I      I       I       I       I       I


1                         Total Portfolio:    I   0.001  0.00 I  0.00I   0.00I   0.00J  0.00 1  0.00 p o o   I

                                                          IApprovalsPendingCommitment




                          I TotalPendingCommitment:             0.00 1     0.00 1     0.00 (0.00




                                                        106

                                                        Saint Lucia
                                             Statement of Loans and Credits

                                                                                                 Differencebetween
                                                                                                      expected
                                                      Original Amount in US$                         and actual
                                                              Millions                         disbursementsa


                                                                                                              !!I
Project ID     Purpose                            IBRD      IDA        SF     GEF    Cancel Undisb    Orig
           FY
                                                                                                     -
                                 ~~




PO77687    2002 Saint Lucia EmergencyRecovery       1.89     4.41      0.00   0.00                     -0.32

PO70244    2002 Project                             1.30     1.30      0.00   0.00                     0.80

PO77712    2002 LC Water Sector ReformTech Assist   6.00     6.00      0.00   0.00           12.64     3.16

               6 0 LC Education(APLO1)              1.50     1.50      0.00   0.00            0.65     0.57    0.00
                LC- POVERTYREDUCTIONFUND




                                          Total:  10.69     13.21     0.00    0.00    0.00    18.74     4.21     0.00




                                                               Committed               Disbursed
                                                                IFC                             IFC



FY Approval             Company                      Loan    Equity     Quasi   Partic   Loan Equity      Quasi Partic




                            Total Portfolio:     I   0.00 I    0.00  I   0.00I   0.00 I  0.00I   0.00 I    0.00 10.00  I

I                                                             IApprovals   PendingCommitment


FY Approval               I Company                                  Loan  I  Equity1      Quasi IPartiC




                            TotalPendingCommitment:                   0.00       0.00       0.00          0.00




                                                          107

                                               St. Vincent and the Grenadines
                                               Statementof Loans and Credits

                                                                                                     Difference between
                                                                                                          expected
                                                     OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                      and actual
                                                                                                  disbursementsa



  Project ID     Purpose                             IBRD       IDA       SF       GEF   Cancel  Undisb     Orig
             FY




  PO69923    2002 VC Disaster Management               3.00     2.91      0.00      0.00   0.00    6.18      3.13     0.00
                                                                                                                   0.00
  PO76822    2002 St Vincent Emergency Recovery        0.96     2.24      0.00      0.00   0.00    2.02      0.56

                  Project


                                                                                                                   0.00
                                             Total:   3.96      5.15      0.00    0.00     0.00    8.20      3.69




                                                                 Committed                 Disbursed
                                                                  IFC                                IFC


I FY Approval            I Company                   I  Loan Equity
                                                              I         I Quasi   I ParticI  Loan Equity
                                                                                                  I         I  Quasi lparticI

                               Total Portfolio:     I   0.00 I   0.00  I   0.00   I   0.00I   0.00I   0.00  I   0.00 10.00  I

                                                               IApprovals  PendingCommitment




                             I TotalPendingCommitment:                 0.00 I       0.00 I     0.00 I0.00




                                                            108

                                                   Annex 16: Countries at a Glance
IMPLEMENTATION OFADAPTATION MEASURES INCOASTAL ZONES PROJECT
                                          Dominica at a glance                                                                                     8/20/03

                                                                              L a t h    Upper-
 POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                       Arnerlca      mlddle-
                                                              Domlnlca    h Carib.      Income        Development dlamond`
 2002
 Populatlon, mid-year (millions)                                   0.07          527         331                       Life expectancy
 GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                               3,180       3,280        5,040
 GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                   0.23      1,727        1.668
 Average annual arowth, 1996-02                                                                                               T
                                                                                                                               1
 Population (%)                                                     .0.2          1.5        1.2
 Labor force (%)                                                                  2.2        1.8      GNI                                        Gross
                                                                                                      per        t---                          primary
 Moat recent eatlmate (lateat year avallable, 1996.02)                                                capita                                 enrollment
 Poverty (% of population below national poverty iina)                                                                        Y
 Urban population (% of tote1POpuletiOn)                              72          76          75
 Life expectancy at birth (years)                                     77          71          73                              1
 infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                             12          27          19
 Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                         9                        A C C ~ S Sto ImDrOved water source
 Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)                  97          86          90
 illiteracy (% of population age 15t)                                             11           7           -
 Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populetion)                           130         105                     Dominica
     Male                                                                        131         106                     UDoer-middle-income arom
     Female                                                                      128         105

 KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                       1982        I992        2001         2002      Economlc ratloso
 GDP (US$ billions)                                     0.07        0.19        0.26        0.25
 Gross domestic investmenffGDP                          30.9        29.5        28.2
 Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                      41.2        52.0        51.9                                        Trade
 Gross domestic savings1GDP                              2.6        16.2        15.4
 Gross natlonal savings1GDP                             17.3        16.3        15.2
 Current account baiance1GDP                           -10.8       -14.1      -18.9
 Interest payments1GDP                                   0.6         1.o          2.9        2.0
 Total debt1GDP                                         28.5       49.8         82.0        81.2
 Total debt servicelexports                              2.2         5.5        11.3
 Present value of debtJGDP                                                      69.9                                           L

 Present value ofdebtkxports                                                  130.1                                       Indebtedness
                                          1982-92    1992.02       2001        2002     2002.06
 (average annual growth)
 GDP                                          4.4        1.1        -4.8         -2.8
 GDP per capita                               4.8        1.1        -4.7         -2.7
 Exports of goods and services                8.1        3.0       -10.3


 STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                       1982        1992        2001         2002      Growth of Investment and GDP (X)
 (% of GDPJ                                                                                                                                               I
 Agriculture                                            30.4       22.4         17.5
 Industry                                               20.5       20.3         23.2
    Manufacturing                                        8.2         8.2          8.0
 Services                                               49.1       57.3         59.3
 Private consumption                                    72.9       63.8         61.O
 General government consumption                         24.5        19.9        23.6                 I
 Imports of goods and services                          69.5       65.3         64.8                                 -OD1           - O - G D P           I

                                                     1982-92   1992-02        2001          2002
 (average annual growth)                                                                              Growth of exports and lmporta (X)

 Agriculture                                             2.1        -2.2      -11.4                  2o T                                                 I
 Industry                                                6.5         2.o         -6.6
    Manufacturing                                        5.4         0.4      -14.8
 Services                                                4.8         2.9         -1.9
 Private consumption                                     3.4         1.1      -10.1
 General government consumption                          2.2         3.5         -2.6
 Gross domestic investment                               6.0         0.5          7.8
 Imports of goods and services                           5.8         2.3         -9.9

 Note: 2002 data are preliminary estimates.
 This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
 `The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income.group average. if data are missing. the diamond will
     be incomplete.




                                                                          109

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                               1982     1992        2001   2002
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                  4.2      4.3         1.9
implicit GDPdeflator                             4.5      4.1         1.9   0.9
Government finance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Currentrevenue                                           28.1       33.0
Currentbudgetbalance                                      2.4        0.3
Overallsurplusldeficit                                   -6.6       -11.1

TRADE
(us$miiiions)                                  1982     1992        2001   2002     Export and import levels (US$ mlll.)

Total exports (fob)                                       55          45
  Bananas                                                 31           8           m T
  Other agriculturalexports                                 4          6            150
  Manufactures                                            18          31
Total imports(cir)                                        93         131            100

  Food                                                    19          28             60
  Fueland energy                                            6         13
  Capitalgoods                                                        34              0

Export priceindex (1995=100)                              93          78
Importprice index (1995=100)                              89         100
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                104          78

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                               1982     1992        2001   2002    1
(US$ millions)                                                                       Current account balanceto GDP(%)
Exportsof goods and services                      32     100         135              0
Importsof goodsand services                       50     125         168
Resourcebalance                                  -18     -25         -33              5

Net income                                        0       -7         -28            .10
Net currenttransfers                              10        7         19
                                                                                   -15
Current accountbalance                            -0     -27         -49
Financingitems (net)                              6       30          51            .20

Changes in net reserves                           2       -3          -2
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)              -4      20          32
Conversionrate (DEC, ioca//US$)                  2.7      2.7         2.7   2.7

EXTERNAL DEET and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                               1982     1992        2001   2002
(US$ mi/iions)                                                                       Composltlonof 2002 debt (US$mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             21       96         213    207
  IBRD                                            0        0           3      3
  IDA                                             0       11          14     17                     26          17

Total debt service                                 1       6          16     11
  iBRD                                            0        0           0      0
  IDA                                             0        0           0      0
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                                  6        6           9
  Officialcreditors                               8        6          14      5
  Privatecreditors                                0        0          12      2
  Foreigndirectinvestment                         0       20          12
  Portfolioequity                                 0        0           0
Worid Bankprogram
  Commitments                                     5        0           0      2      A IBRD
                                                                                       -                                E. Bilateral
  Disbursements                                   0        0            1     3      0 . IDA   D. Omermultilateral      F Private
                                                                                                                         -
  Principalrepayments                             0        0           0      0
  Net flows                                       0        0            1     2
  Interestpaynents                                0        0           0     0
  Net transfers                                   0        0           1      2

Note:This tablewas producedfrom the DevelopmentEconomicscentraldatabase.                                                      8/20103




                                                                110

                                        St. Lucia at a glance                                                                                 8120103

                                                                            Lath        Upper-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                        Amerlca      middle-
                                                             St. Lucia   (L Carib.     income       Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population, mid-year (miiiions)                                   0.16         527         331                     Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                               3,840      3,280        5,040
GNI (Atlas melhod, US$billions)                                   0.61      1,727        1,666                            T

Average annualgrowth, 199642
Population(%)                                                      1.3          1.5        1.2
Labor force (%)                                                                 2.2        1.8                                               Gross
                                                                                                     per                                    primary
Most recent estlmate (latest year avallable, 199642)                                                capita
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownalionelpovertyline)
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                              38          76          75
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                      72          71          73
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                             13          27          19
Child malnutrition (% of childrenunder5)                                           9                       Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                  98          86          90
Illiteracy(% of populationage f5+)                                               11          7
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschod-ege population)                112         130         105          -St        Lucia
    Male                                                           115         131         106                  Upper-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                         109         128         105

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                     1902        1992        2001        2002
                                                                                                     Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                    0.14        0.48        0.66        0.66
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                          33.5        24.1        21  .o
Exportsof goodsand servicedGDP                        57.8        67.7        46.0                                      Trade
Gross domestic savingdGDP                               7.4       15.3          7.8
Gross national savingslGOP                                                                                                 T
                                                      16.0        12.3          5.3
Current account balance/GDP                          -21.5       -11.7       -12.7
InterestpaymentdGDP                                     0.4        0.9          1.3        1.5                                       I Investment
Total debffGDP                                        11.9        20.5        36.0        36.9
Total debt servlcelexports                              1.4         3.5         7.1
Present value of debtlGDP                                                     34.6                                         L

Present value of debtlexports                                                 66.0                                   Indebtedness
                                        1982-92  199242          2001        2002     200246
(averege annualgrowth)
GDP                                         9.2         1.4        -3.7        -0.5
GDP per capita                              7.6         0.0        4.6         -1.6
Exports of goodsand services               12.0        -1.7      -15.6


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                     1902         1992       2001        2002      1 Growth of investmentend GDP (K)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                           13.9        13.4          6.6
Industry                                              20.8        20.0         18.2
   Manufacturing                                        9.1         7.5         4.4                  :"-
Services                                              65.3        66.7         75.2                -30
                                                                                                   -10
                                                                                                   -20


Privateconsumption                                    68.5        70.2         74.3
General government consumption                        24.0        14.6         17.9
Importsof goodsand services                           83.8        76.5        61.2                              -OD1             " O I G D P



                                                 1982-92      199242         2001        2002
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                               Growthof exports and Imports(%)

Agriculture                                             6.4        -5.8      -19.2                  I 6I

Industry                                              10.2          1.7        -6.1
   Manufacturing                                        9.6        -1.7      -17.8
Services                                                7.1        2.9         -1.6
Privateconsumption                                      9.9        2.3         4 . 6
General governmentconsumption                           4.2        4.2          5.7
Gross domestic investment                               9.9        2.1       -19.4
Importsof goods and services                          11.1         0.1       -17.2

Note: 2002 data are preliminaryestimates.
Thistable was producedfrom the Development Economicscentral database.
  The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) compared with its income-groupaverage. If data are missing, the diamond will
    be incomplete.




                                                                       111

                                                                                  I
1982     z 992   200t  2001   ..............."........
                                                "         .......................
                                tnflation (%)
                              Itu "

 4 6       5 6    1 5
 5 5       3 5    0 0   0 2



         25 5    24 8
           6 8    l r
          -14     4 5


1982    f 992   2001   2002

  42       129     45
  16a       68     33
             7      I
   t5       31      0
 I f 6     308    331
  25        59     65
  I 4       I?! 15
  20        66    61
           l10     55
            54     84
           $16    713


1982     1992    zoo?  2002

  $6       324    343
 135       366    384
 49        4 2    41

   -1      -30    46
  14        16     21
 -31       -56    5 4
  33        59    @I
   -2       -3    -10


    8       54    97
 2 7       2 7    2 7   2 7


I982    1992    20QI   2002

  17        98   238    244
    0
    a        0      5    6
             4     12    13
    I       12     25    45
    0
    a        0      1     1
             0      0    0


    4        5     18
    2       22     -4    6
    0       -1      7    0
  27        41    51
    0        0      0

    0        0      a    a
    0        4      1    3
    0        0      1     1
    0        4      0    2
    0
    a        0      0    0
             4      0     1




              112

            St. Vincent and the Grenadines at a glance                                                                                    8/29/03

                                                           St. Vincent        Latin    Lower-
 POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             and the  America       middle
                                                           Grenadlnes     i%Carib.     Income
 2002
 Population,mid-year (millions)                                    0.12         527      2,411
 GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$J                                                                                Life expectancy
                                                                 2,820        3.280      1,390
 GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                   0.33       1,727      3,352
 Average annual growth, 1996-02
 Population(%)                                                                              .o
 Laborforce 196)                                                    0.7          1.5       1
                                                                                 2.2       1.2                                           Gross

 Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199642)                                               ON1per                              primary
                                                                                                    capita                           enrollment
 Povertyf% ofpopulationbelownationalpaver& line)
 Urbanpopulation (% oftotalpopulation)                               57           76       49
 Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                      73           71       69                             1
 Infant mortality (per f,OOO livebirths)                             17           27        30
 Child malnutrition (% ofchil&en under 5)                            20            9       aI i
                                                                                             1             Access to imDrovedwater source
Access to an Improvedwater source 196 ofpopulation)                               a6
 Illiteracy196 ofpopulafionage f5+)                                  93
                                                                                  11        13        -
 Gross primaryenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)                             130        111                St. Vincentandfha Grenadines
     Male                                                                       131        111        -.      Lower-middle-incomegroup
     Female                                                                     128        110

 KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                      1982        1992        2001       2002
GDP (US$billkms)                                       0.09        0.23        0.35                 Economicratlos'
                                                                                          0.38
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                          27.9        24.3        27.4
Exports Of goods and SeNlCeS/GDP                       58.9        59.3        46.7                                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                              -1.9       15.2         10.9
Gross nationalsavingdGDP                                           20.1         10.6
Current account balance/GDP                           -12.6       -10.4
Interestpayments/GDP                                    0.7         0.9          1.5       1.2
Total debVGDP                                          24.8        32.5        55.8       57.2
Total debtservicelexports                               3.1         4.8         7.9
Present value of debtlGDP                                                      44.7                                       I
Presentvalue of debffexports                                                   88.3
                                                                                                                    Indebtedness
                                         1982-92 1992-02          2001        2002    2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                         6.0          1.7        0.2         0.7                1   -St.       Vincentandthe Grenadines
GDP per capita                              5.1          1.o       -0.6         0.0                    -Lower-middle-incomeWOUD
Exports of goods and services               5.1         2.5       -12.6


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                      1982        1992        2001       2002
(% of GDP)                                                                                          Growth of Investment and GDP(%)

Agriculture                                            16.5        19.4        10.3                                                             I
industry                                               25.3       24.3         24.4
   Manufacturing                                       10.9         9.5         5.4
Services                                               58.2       56.3         65.3
Private consumption                                    78.5       61.0         61.5
General government consumption                         23.4       23.8         27.5
Importsof gwds and services                                                                                     -GDI           -GDP




(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                             6.5        -1.1        -5.0
Industry                                                6.2         1.8         2.5
   Manufacturing                                        3.9        -2.0         1.0
Services                                                6.1        4.6         -0.8
Privateconsumption                                      5.2        2.0         16.7
General government consumption                          4.8        6.4          3.3
Gross domestic investment                               8.3        4.5         -2.0                         -Exports          -O-lmporto
Importsof gwds and services                             4.4        2.8          4.0

Note:2002 data are preliminaryestimates.
This table was producedfrom the Development Economicscentral database.
  The diamonds show four key IndicatorsIn the country (in bold) compared with Its incomegroupaverage. If data are missing,the diamondwill
   be incomplete.




                                                                         113

(94x2   I992      2004    2002  i...........................................................................
                                   tnWion (*hi                                                                      -x____,            x                     ~         x      x




  7 3     3 3      1 4
  90      2 1      3 6     28



        25 7      23 8
          2 8      4 1
         -7 9     -35


t 982   1992      2001    2002

          70        43
          37         13
             3         a
          22        21
         116       186
          27        45
             9       i r
           ?i 62
         IOQ
         I @
         109


1982    1992      2004    2002                              "I                .........."...........................................................................".....
                                 p " t a c c o w n t balanCQto GDP ["J]
   48    119       'I74
   34    157       729
  -26     -38      -54

    -3      -7     -23
   18      19        I8
  .f 1    -74
    7      35
    4     -1I          5         1-63


           38       61
  2 7     2 9      2 1     2 7


1982    I992      2002    2002

   21
    a      'I6
             a     195     2%
                       a
    0        8         8    faa
    2        6       14     i 4
    0        0         0
    a        a         a     0
                             0

    3        8         5     0
    4        5         2     3
    -1
    aa       0         a     8
           14        36      0
             0         a     a                                                                                        31

    a        a         0     5
    0        0               2
    0                  aI 0
    0        aa        1     2
    a0       0         0     0
             0         1     2




                x14

                                    Annex 17:STAP Roster Review
IMPLEMENTATION OFADAPTATION MEASURESINCOASTAL ZONES PROJECT



        0    STAP expert review andIA/ExA response

        STAP reviewer : Bhawan Singh, PhD
        Professeur titulaireh'rofessor
        DCpartementde gkographie
        UniversitC de MontrCal
        Tel: (5 14) 343-8040
        Fax : (514) 343-8008
        email : bhawan.singh@,umontreal.ca


     1. The document contains a number o f broad and sweeping statements, without providing
        concrete proof or evidence. For instance the possibility o f the intensification o f
        hurricanes and the coastal zone impacts (page 7). Also, the tone o f the document assumes
        that GHG climate change and its impacts are inevitable, which may well be the case, but
        caution must be exercised in such assumptions because o f the high uncertainty, deriving
        from the level o f GHGforcing, spatial issues and climate models imperfections.

Evidence linking intensification o f hurricanes and climate change has been presented in the
literature by Peter J. Webster & Judith A. Curry,          Earth & Atmospheric Sciences, Georgia
Institute o f Technology (Science, September 16) an by K. Emmanuel from MIT. These studies
analyze global trends in the intensification o f hurricanes and their linkage with increases in sea
surface temperature. The results are solid, statistically sound and have not been refuted in the
scientific literature;

Climate change impacts such as sea level rise, increased sea surface temperature, collapse o f
coral reefs and salinization o f aquifers in the Caribbean basin are unavoidable, even if drastic
mitigation actions are enacted today. Reference to findings inNational Communications o f three
participating

    2. The sectors that are targeted as the focus o f the study, namely biodiversity, land
        degradation, ecotourism (Dominica and St Vincent and the Grenadines), water resources
        and coastal infrastructure and fisheries (Saint Lucia) are critical for the well-being o f
        these Caribbean SIDS, However, although the document provides adequate information
        interms ofinstitutions and capacity for undertaking impacts studies inthese sectors, there
        i s a lack o f details relating the precise methodologies that are to be used to undertake the
        impacts and adaptation studies (Subcomponents 1 to 6, pp 12-13). Besides details on
        Component 2 Subcomponent 4 relating strengthened critical coastal infrastructure in the
        Castries area o f Saint Lucia are very sketchy.

More information will be generated and provided as part o f the appraisal process; However,
identification o f the methodologies will be part o f component one duringthe first project year.


                                                    115

   3. The document provides details o f budget allocations for the 3 activity components,
       namely prioritization o f adaptation measures, implementation o f adaptation measures and
       strengthening of national capacity to implement multiple MEA obligations and
       contributions by the participating governments, other donors and the GEF. However, it is
       unclear as to what the budget allocations will be for each o f the six subcomponents and
       by extension for each participating country. It is hoped that this will be rectified when the
       Financial Management and Disbursements details are completed inAnnex 8.

The budget allocation is currently o f indicative character. The specific budget allocation per sub-
component will be defined duringthe design process o fthe specific adaptation investments.

   4. The document states that the integration o f the climate change dimension in sector
       policies i s limited by the lack o f expertise and capacity. This i s a problem in many
       countries, especially developing countries where priorities do not favor climate change
       issues. The fact that the science o f climate change is plaguedby uncertainties and that the
       impacts o f climate change are projected to be well into the future further complicates this
       problem. There is a need therefore to sensitize policy makers and institutions regarding
       the importance o f climate change issues, so as to promote and foster capacity building.

The governments are involved in the adaptation measures identification process, the
governments confirmed to provide in kind or in cash contributions. However, M A C C continues
supporting in parallel the enabling environment process and the project will further strengthen
the sensitization process. Also, selected adaptation initiatives will complement ongoing or
planned government programs addressing the key sectors vulnerable to climate change. The
project will add on to these government activities by incorporating long term climate change
considerations in planning, designing and implementing the specific actions. Such a design
guarantees mainstreaming climate change consideration inthe selected sectors.

    5. The identification o f critical risks and possible controversial aspects are to be
       commended. However, it is stated that there are no controversial aspects related to the
       project (page 20). This statement i s very strong and must be justified, especially in view
       o f the ambiguity relating to the allocation o f funding and resources to the participating
       countries.

Controversial aspects refer to Bank safeguard and fiduciary policies. In that regard there aren't
any controversial aspects.

   6. The fact that social and environmental impacts o f the project are considered is also highly
       commendable. However, it i s critical that the section on Social Impacts o f the project be
       completed (page 23).

Social section i s now completed

   7. There are a number o f abbreviations and acronyms that are mentioned in the project
       document that are not listed in the Abbreviations and Acronyms (Pages 2-3). These
       include, amongst others: CDERA, CREP, OECS-ESDU, NCAP, NCCSAP, NOAA).


                                                 116

OK. Hasbeen addressed inthe acronyms table.

    8. The project document has many incomplete sections, some o f which are critical
        (Partnership Arrangements, Incremental Costs, Social Impact Assessment and Annexes 8,
        9, 10, 11,12, 13, 14, 15 and 16) and this issue should be addressed.

OK. These sections havebeen completed.




         0  GEFSecretariat and other Agencies' comments and IA/ExA response

Expected at WorkProgram inclusion:
Please describe insome detail a replication plan.
There i s no detailed replication planat this early stage. Nevertheless, the project has incorporated
two essential tools for the analysis of the pilots. A comprehensive monitoring system, to learn
from the in-the-field experiments, including a subcomponent o f evaluation of the benefits
generated (global and local), involving the community and its perceptions. The second tool is a
process, within the implementation team, to share the information collected in all pilot sites, and
jointly analyze it and extract lessons to be share with the wider Caribbean community and other
SIDS. Complementing the above activities, the project will design and implement a
dissemination strategy o f the lessons learned, as part o f project activities, highlighting what
works and what does not work, and exploring the causes o f success or failure respectively.

Expected at WorkProgram inclusion:
Please describe in some detail a public involvement plan and how to integrate inputs from
stakeholders at project design, implementation, and M&E levels.
Community participation has been incorporatedinproject preparation, since its earlier start. Each
subcomponent has been discussed with the community and efforts have been made to
incorporate active NGOs working in the pilot sites. Community Based Organizations, CBO,
NGO local governments andinterest groups will be asked to actively participateinthe adaptation
process. It i s recognized that this involvement plays a key role for the success o f pilot
implementation. Moreover, a key adaptation measure i s to build community capacity to identify,
prioritize, plan, analyze, search for support and implement development activities that reduce
their vulnerabilities to natural hazards, while at the same time increases their resilience to climate
change. Consequently the operating manual will include a description o f the participation
framework selected, providing some degree of flexibility to account for the idiosyncrasies o f
each pilot site.




                                                 117


3
ru
0

      0
      2




.d
8


I *    0




I

rr,
N



0  .  .    0

FigureNo. 3 1 shows World Bank~ a ~ ~ ~Policies,ddividedintoe ~ ~ ~ ~ ~andn ~ eissues~ ~ l
                                                 u a r                                    o social      n
and those deaiing~ s p ~with ~ ~ legal aspects,The c ~ o s s - c ~publicnd~ ~
                                c more l ~ ~                                  t ~ ~            ~   s policy~
                                                                                                        e       ~ ~ ~  ~
applies to a31other policies. tfowevex, some policies have specific re~uire~ents d ~ s s ~ ~ ~ n a t ~ o n
                                                                                      for
and public consu~tat~~~.


THE ~
As shown in I:igurc No. 11 and expressed in subsect~onB `
                  ~                                                 ~        ~     ~ ~ V
                   the safeguard policies ~n~rironmentalA ~ s e s ~(OPJBPt 4.01). and Natural ~ ~ a b ~ t a ~
                                ~            ~            ~            ~~   ~ n     r             ~~    A ~QF   ~  ~~    ~
                                                                                                               '     ~
(OP 4.04) will be triggered by the project. As a preventive nxeasure, project de~pel~pme~t       obsewes the
Cultural Property (OPN 4.11) policy. I-lowever, it is highly unlikely that the project activities will activate
the latter safegprd policy, 3n general, the project is expected to resutt in no major adverse e n ~ ~ i ~ o ~ ~ ~ ~ n t a
impacts expected as a result of this project. Minor eI~~~iro~xxen~a1impacts might be expected from some
011the gound i~~~estn~asndts~ s c r i inethe table above. The project is designmi to be:entirely positive
                            e            ~   ~
from an e n ~ ~ ~ r ~ ~point ofnview,l p ~ ~ ~ i byup~l o~t~lcytin~g ~ l ~e ce~ s~y sa~ froms lthe~impact of
                        ~ m ~    t a                ~                                     e~~
GCC.




                                                     127

              Annex 19: ClimateChangeVulnerabilityAssessment Methodology
 IMPLEMENTATION OFADAPTATION MEASURES INCOASTAL ZONES PROJECT


 1.     Introduction

 Caribbean nations are in the forefront in the development and implementation o f participatory
 climate change vulnerability assessments. Since the TAR from IPCC, 2001, identified key
 methodological deficiencies, the Caribbean community has being working in search of a CC
 vulnerability assessment framework that incorporates up to date scientific information and is, at
 the same time, adjusted to the cultural and idiosyncratic treats for the region.


 2.     THEROADTRAVELED


 2.1    The beginnings

 The Caribbean community initiated it immersion in the theory and practice o f vulnerability with
 the GEF supported enabling activity o f CPACC. A major activity undertaken was a review o f the
 existing methodologies for coastal vulnerability analysis and the selection o f an appropriate
 methodology which was suited to the Caribbean circumstances.

 Four methodologieswere examined (Nicholls, 1998) and included the following:

     o IPCC Common Methodology (IPCCC ZMS, 1992)
     o US Country Studies Programme (Leatheman andYo.., 1995)
     o The South Pacific Island Methodology (Yawada et al. 1995).
     o UNEP Handbook on Methods o f Climate Change Impact Assessment and Adaptation
        strategies (Brenton et al. 1998) (henceforth the UNEP Handbook Methodology)

 An assessment of the advantageddisadvantages o f the four methodologies is shown in the
 following table:

 Methodology                       Advantages                        Disadvantages

IN A Frameworkor Tool?)
 IPCC Common Methodology           1.    Logical       prescribed     1. Inflexible,       stressing
                                      structure                      susceptibility,             not
                                   2.    Consistent results for          vulnerability assessment
                                      global aggregation             2. VA tools not discussed
                                   3,    Widely used                 3. Adaptation          options
                                                                     undeveloped
 US Country Studies Program 1.           Some       VA       tools    1. Confuses VA Framework
 (Muddled)                         described                         and Tools
                                  2.     Workbook approach           2. Only addresses Land Loss
                                   3.    Widely used                 impacts
                                                                     3. Stresses suscePtibilitv. not


                                                 128

                                                                 vulnerability assessment
South Pacific Island (VA 1.             Useful   with limited 1. Results are qualitative to
Framework with qualitative        data                           semi-quantitative
VA Tools                         2.     Conceptualizes
                                  vulnerability            into
                                        measurable elements
UNEP       Handbook        (VA 1. Good conceptual basis          1. Remains to be widely
Framework with guidance on 2. All             major     impacts tested.
VA Tools)                         considered
                                 3.  Guidance on VA tools

As a result of this assessment the UNEP Handbook Methodology was selected as the best
approach for its implementation inparticipating countries. Aspects of the other approaches
could be used as part of the UNEPHandbook methodology e.g. the structured approach to
usingexpertjudgment as provided by the South Pacific Island Methodology.

2.2    Implementation

   .
For the purpose o f implementation the methodology utilized by CPACC involved five steps:

       Step I -Problem dejnition and scope of the analysis
       Rapid screening assessment to identify the potential critical areas and to obtain an initial
       idea o fthe likely impacts associated with climate change.

       Step 2 -Scenariosfor Coastal Vulnerability Assessment
       Selection o f a range of scenarios for the vulnerability assessment, including biogeo-
       physical and socio-economic changes, and climate change and non-climate change
   .   factors.

       Step 3 -Impact Assessment
       Impact assessment included:
           o Assessment o fgeophysical impacts
           o assessmento f impacts on ecosystems
           o assessmento fpotential socio-economic impacts

       Three distinct categories o f impact can were distinguished and evaluated: human
   .   population; marketed goods and services; andnon-marketed goods and services.

       Stage 4 and 5 -Adaptation Options
       These two stages were concerned with the examination o f adaptation options. Stage (4)
       considered spontaneous biogeophysical or socio-economic adjustments to climate change
       scenarios. Stage (5) addressed planned adaptation taking into consideration the three
       possible technical options: (1) planned retreat (2) accommodation, or (3) protection
       (IPCC CZMS, 1990: Bigilsma et al. 1996).




                                               129

From March 1999 through February 2001vulnerability assessments for the three pilot countries
and 8 sites were carried out by country teams.

2.3 LESSONSLEARNED

All CPACC participating countries were required to report on their vulnerability and risk
assessmentsintheir First National Communications. Although some training inV&A assessment
was provided under the UNDP/GEF Enabling Activities Program in the region no
comprehensive assessment was reported inany but the reports o f the pilot countries. This reflects
on the dire need to build capacity in the region to fulfill its obligations as signatories o f the
UNFCCC as well as the lack o f fruitful interaction between the technical exercise o f assessing
risks andvulnerabilities and the political decision makingprocess.

CPACC also found the need to seriously address the issue o f data availability. Lack o f baseline
data seriously hampered the indepth analysis required by this exercise.

The vulnerability assessment methodology was found not to address institutional and social
coping capabilities. That is, issues related to the existing social and cultural capabilities to adapt
to external threats are not incorporated. Additionally, the methodology hypothesizes a static
social response, which does not correspond to the successful aware campaign carried under a
series o f well linked climate change adaptation projects inthe Caribbean.

Other lessons include:

    0    Inmajor natural events the resources ofa single sector, agency or community will not be
         adequate;
    0    The range o f risks and their complex impacts demand information and skills form diverse
         sources;
    0    No person or agency can be expected to anticipate all scenarios;
    0    Sharingo f resources will enhance response and recovery;
    e    Team building and networking to facilitate access to the communities total resources and
         buildlocal coping capacity;

3        MACC AND THE SEARCH FOR AN INTEGRATED APPROACH TO CLIMATE RISK
         ASSESSMENT AND MANAGEMENT


The approach to Vulnerability and Capacity Assessment (VCA) developed under M A C C builds
on but is different from traditional approaches. It incorporates the lessons learned from previous
enabling activities inthe region and integrates further developments, such as the IPCC Common
Methodology, inseveral waysI5. Special emphasis is placedon


l5Thematerialsynthesizedhereindraws ontheCPACCprogramdocuments (including the RiskAssessment
Framework), CPACC Program documents (e.g. Nurse 2001), SOPAC (see Nicholls for review), I W C A M (CEHI,
1999), the UNAdaptation Policy Framework NAPA assessments (Downing et al,), International Integrated
Assessments such as IPCC (2001) etc. It also draws heavily from the environmental risk and development literatures


                                                      130

     ..  Incorporating the dynamic nature o f vulnerability. Linking risk and vulnerability
     .   assessmentsthrough a political ecology systems approach.
         Explicit uncertainty characterization i s undertaken for both technical and societal issues
         Developed focused and usable information products, processes and inputs specifically
     ... linked to decision making needs: Identification o f entry points into decision processes
         andmodels
         Linking community, national and regional indicators i.e. cross-scale and multiple stress
         indicators
         Linkingexisting responses on extremes and variability to adapting to climate change
         Documenting impacts and responses to changes that are already occurring.

Several major concerns were addressed during the process o f upgrading the previous
vulnerability assessment methodologies: (i)High national adaptive capacity can mask great
internal variations in vulnerability; (ii)        Despite a high adaptive capacity on paper knowledge,
technological capacity, expertise, are not always put to use; and, (iii)                The need for multi-sector
and multi-agency coordination is made evident from experience (Collymore et a1 1994,2003)

3.1      Desirable product

A VCA exercise should typically producethe followingproducts:

     0   A final composite vulnerability analysis
     0   An assessmento fthe adaptive capacity
     0   A baseline analysis o f structural vulnerability
     0   Historical socio-economic data sets constructed from
              o Basic infrastructure and logistical data for riskpreparedness and response
              o Purposes
              o An analysis o fclimatic sensitivities across timescales
     0   An Information System Database (GIS) for analyzing, mapping and comparing available
         data sets
     0   Analytical support to the country office on water, tourism, and agriculture


3.2      The MACC methodology

The M A C C developed methodology could be synthesized into a practical set o f tasks for
carrying out a vulnerability and risk assessment:




especially inthe area of disasters including the established literature on social vulnerability from anthropology,
social geography, sociology and the policy sciences (see Pulwarty and Riebsame, 1997). The goal is to produce a
practical assessment methodology within the context of adaptation inCaribbean countries involved inthe MACC
project. The methods employed are grounded inthe political ecology of disasters and social vulnerability of
livelihoods theoretical framework.



                                                          131

Step A: Identify initial list critical issues/problems within unit of analysis (from previous
      studies)

   0  Select and characterized the exposure unit (usually islandor watershed scale)
                   ..  Define the study area and develop initial list o f critical issues
                       Prepare short descriptions o f present vulnerabilities using existing reviews
                   .   and reports o f projects being implemented: identify limitation and gaps
                       (data, framing etc.)
                       Identify multiple stress component and cross-sectoral, cross-agency and
                       multiple stress responsibilities
      Construct static risk maps from existing information and maps: identify priorities

   Step B:     Characterize current state o f relevant knowledge o f climate variability on relevant
   time-scales for social and environmental impacts (see Appendix: Developing a climate risk
   inventory)

   0  Assimilate and develop climate inventory from monthly data over the longest period
      available: Standardized Precipitation Index (SPI), recurrence and exceedance statistics,
      variability on extremes, seasonal, interannual, decadal, change
   0  Characterize Future Climate-relatedrisks

   Step C:     Analyze changes in past and current supply and demand management practices
   development trends and potential climate change impacts for scenario input. Develop or
   assimilate database on key input and output variables for indices

   0  Develop or obtain present scenarios for population growth, industrialization, and change
      (e.g. irrigation, desalinization)
   0  Conduct preliminary assessment o f climatic relationships with different national or
      community scale inputs and outputs over time

  Step D:      Assess economic, social and ecological vulnerability inselected sectors to climate
  on the seasonal to centennial and longer timescales, (e.g. how transformations such as
  demographic changes influence vulnerability to climate do risks including abrupt changes?)

   0  Apply political ecology framework (vulnerabilities and capacities) at different scales
   0  Develop indicators: WPI, TPI, Ag-Climate Index, EVI inputs Identify trends and
      conditioning factors (climate and non-climatic) on trend for critical issues
   0  Determine key climatic relationships and construct sensitivity matrix and vulnerability
      checklist

   Step E:     Develop vulnerability and capacities profile


   0  Usingindicators from Political Ecology Framework construct
   0  Maps, Charts o f Variations, Trends inindicators
   0  Specify nature o f uncertainty within each index and in relationships (use IPCC



                                                 132

       framework)
    0  Elicit advisory panel input on scenario plausibility (supply, demand) development and
       management (efficiency, storage). Select scenarios for stakeholder dialogue

    0  For selected cases carry out policy or gaming exercises among key stakeholders: using
       decision calendars, criteria for information relevance, access, credibility, compatibility,
       acceptability
    0  Identify barriers to adaptation and opportunities for effective decision-making
    0  Develop framework for structuring present knowledge, uncertainties and knowledge gaps

    Step F:    Develop Final Report
    The suggested contents are:
       Objectives o f the vulnerability analysis;
       Data sources and variables;
       Methodology (selection o f indicators, including rationale, data preparation, clustering,
       and analyses);
       Results (baseline and current vulnerability, analysis o f risk and coping risk perception,
       Ability, areaprofiles, preparedness):
       Interpretation and application o f results and discussion o f linkages to programming and
       targeting;
       Identify and characterize barriers and opportunities to mainstreaming for adaptation
       Future directions; and
       Tables and maps.

3.3    Vulnerabilitv Pilot Proiects -Imolementation.

At present the experience inthe implementationo fthe MACC proposed vulnerability assessment
methodology might be summarized as follows: All proposed pilots have had preliminary
vulnerability assessments following the first steps indicated. Five case studies are in advanced
state o f implementation, while four additional processes are on the pipeline for prompt
implementation
Advanced processes:

    0  Tourism - Belize. Work now being finalized. Leader in study will be the University o f
       Belize.
    0  Water- Jamaica. Progress reports for this activity indicate a more than 50% advance in
       the implementation o f the proposed framework. The leading national institution is the
       Water Resources Authority and the team leader is Mr Andreas Haiduk.
    0  Agriculture-Guyana.     The work will focus in the sites o f Leguan, MARDS and Wales
       estate, as selected by the national team in concurrence with government officials. The
       team i s advancing under the guidance o f NOAA officer Dr Pulwarty.
       Ecosystem - Trinidad&Tobago. Progress reports suggest that activities are proceeding as
       planned assessing the risk and vulnerabilities associated with the environmental sensitive
       area o f the Nariva swamp. The Environmental Management Agency and the Forest
       Service are jointly leading the corresponding work. There is available a significant




                                                 133

       amount o f the relevant data for the Nariva swamp simplifjmg the vulnerability
       assessment.
   0  Watershed--- St Lucia. This study is being supported by the UNDP risk reduction project
      which is administered out o f the. Barbados office. This study utilizes MACC
      methodology; the modality for implementation proposed for the MACC; and, applies the
       concept o f Integrated Water Shed Management (IWSM) as an Adaptation strategy. The
       study i s well on its way and is expected to be completedby end o f April.

Other proposals are inthe pipeline - the following describes their present status.

   0   Tourism-the     Barbados Ministry o f Tourism had requested M A C C support for a sector
       vulnerability study as a precursor to the preparation o f a mitigation plan for the industry
       inBarbados. Work will be lead by the University in Barbados at the Cave Hill campus.
       All aspects o f regional tourism would be addressed in this study-cruise        ship, island
       beach and reef, inland ecotourism so that inferences can be drawn for the rest o f the
       region.
   0   Water-Antigua       and Barbuda has submitted a proposal. The local Met. Office will be
       responsible for the process, as well as for the detailed hydrology and meteorology
       analysis required. Interms o f capacity buildingparticipants from Antigua and Belize will
       integrate the assessment team.
   0   Aaiculture-Dominica        has submitted a proposal to           address climate change
       vulnerabilities in the agriculture sector, The proposed team includes the participation o f
       officials from Guyana as part o f the regional integration and capacity building activities
       inthe region.
   0   Watershed - The UNDP plans to extend the watershed VCA study to St Vincent and the
       Grenadines and to Grenada. Work has already being initiated inGrenada.




                                                134



