                                                           E2926


ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF THE INSTALLATION OF A
PHOTOVOLTAIC SOLAR POWERED SALT WATER REVERSE OSMOSIS
               PLANT AT PAGET FARM BEQUIA




                          August 2011




           Prepared by: Environmental Assessment Team



                               1
Table of contents



1. INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................ 3

2. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ............................................................................ 6

3. LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK ...................................................................................                9

4. DESCRIPTION OF THE EXISTING ENVIRONMENT ...........................................                                      12

5. TECHNICAL DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT ACTIVITIES ...................................                                          17

6. PREDICTED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND POTENTIAL
MITIGATING MEASURES...............................................................................................          27

7. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP) .............................................                                        34

8. CONSULTATIONS WITH POPULATION AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS ....                                                                43




                                                                2
1. INTRODUCTION


1.1.     Project Background


On 1st February 2007 the World Bank / GEF project - “Implementation of Adaptation Measures
in Coastal Zones (SPACC) Project? became effective. The objective of this project is to support
efforts by Dominica, Saint Lucia and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines to implement specific
(integrated) pilot adaptation measures. These adaptation measures will address the impacts of
climate change on the natural resource base of the region, focused on biodiversity and land
degradation along coastal and near-coastal areas.


In St. Vincent and the Grenadines the pilot site selected is the Grenadine Island of Bequia. The
primary threat1 from climate change identified on Bequia is the worsening of the availability of
fresh water resulting from the impending sea level rise (salt water intrusion) and increased
droughts. This threat is even more acute in the community of Paget Farm on the south eastern
side of Bequia, where most of the residents do not have underground rain water storage tanks.
Furthermore, Bequia has no known source of surface water and limited, in terms of quality and
quantity, underground source. The pilot adaptation measure identified to address this threat is
the installation of a salt water reverse osmosis (SWRO) plant as part of a potable water system
being commissioned to serve the Paget Farm community.


SWRO plants, however, require extremely high amounts of energy to produce fresh water. The
pilot project therefore seeks to offset this cost by installing a photovoltaic system as a form of
renewable energy source, which will be connected to the local electricity company (VINLEC)
transmission grid. The plan is to install meters at the point of connection to the grid and at the
SWRO Plant to negotiate a Power Purchasing Agreement (PPA) with VINLEC for the sale of the
excess electricity produced.



1
        Vulnerability and Capacity Assessment (VCA) conducted under the Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate
Change (MACC) Project
                                                     3
Initially the project was going to install a wind turbine as the source of renewable energy. The
site considered for the installation was at the top of a hill in Bequia. With these premisses, there
was a need to study the potential impacts that the turbine could impose in the environment (birds,
bats, surrounding area) and to the population (noise disturbances, visual and others). Further, the
installation at the top of a hill required land acquisition, and the construction of an access road
through a complicated topography, with further associated impacts. After careful considerations,
the project opted to install photovoltaic panels as the source of renewable energy. These panels
would be installed at the top of a hangar in the local airport. This decision drastically reduced the
extension and severity of expected impacts, and simplified the analysis conducted in this
Environmental Impact Assessment.


1.2.     Description of the Proposed Project


1.2.1. Project Objectives

The specific objectives of installing the SWRO plant powered by renewable energy in Bequia are
as follows:
        To provide a reliable and adequate supply of World Health Organization (WHO) standard
         potable water to the residents of Paget Farm and surrounding areas.
        To demonstrate viable adaptation to climate change for Small Island Development States
         (SIDS) such as St Vincent and the Grenadines.
        To promote the use of renewable energy source as part of an adaptation/mitigation
         strategy

1.2.2.          Project Components

    1.2.2.1. SWRO Plant

Based on the estimated demand (approximately 1000 persons) for water in the Paget Farms area,
an SWRO plant that can produce a maximum of 22,000 US gallons (USG/d) of water per day has
been recommended. To meet the current estimated water demand of the community, this SWRO
plant will need to be operated for a minimum of 12 hours per day. The estimated annual
                                           4
electricity consumption for operating this SWRO (26kW rating after 34% energy recovery) for
12 hours is 113,880 kWh.


A MOU granting permission from the Fishing Cooperative has been signed to allow use of the
Fishing Complex for installing the SWRO and the holding tank.


It is expected that after the completion, the entire water system including the SWRO Plant will
be operated and maintained by CWSA including billing and collections.

   1.2.2.2. Photovoltaic Renewable Energy System


The St Vincent Electricity Services Ltd (VINLEC) recommended a Photovoltaic system as the
renewable energy source in the Project.    This recommendation was based on projections of a
10kW PV system which they have installed at an approximate cost of USD41,000.00 producing
approximately 16,000 kWh of energy per annum or 1600 units per kW installed. Based on the
forecasted energy requirement for the SWRO plant, VINLEC recommended that a 70-80 kW
photovoltaic system be installed which would provide approximately 128,000 kWh annually.
This would cover the estimated 114,000 kWh which the plant would require. It is proposed to
install the PV system on the hangar at the Sir James Mitchell Airport located in Bequia.




   1.2.2.3. Land and Road Access
A tract of land measuring 2500 sq. ft. located on a hill side above the community of Paget Farm
will need to be acquired to locate the water distribution tank along with containment.
Improvement on the access conditions and drainage to the tank will have to be established.


The Ministry of Health and Environment, as the National Implementing Agency, will be
responsible to work with the Lands and Survey Department and the Ministry of Works and
Transport to survey and acquire the land for the water tank and drainage.



                                                5
2. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT


2.1.      Scope of Work

This Environmental Assessment (EA) study was undertaken as part of the preparation
requirements of the SPECIAL PROGRAM ON ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE
(SPACC) PROJECT.               The Assessment was conducted in compliance with World Bank
requirements as presented in OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment and includes relevant
considerations as presented in the World Bank Safeguards for Natural Habitats, OP/BP 4.04,
Natural Habitats and Physical Cultural Resources, OP/BP 4.11, for Category B projects.

In accordance with World Bank environmental safeguard requirements outlined in OP/BP 4.01
Environmental Assessments, the sub-projects have been categorized in table 2-1 below.


Table 2-1- Categorization of Project Activities According to OP/BP 4.01
       Sub-project/ Activity        Category according to OP/BP 4.01             Action
Installation of the Photovoltaic Category C- likely to have no/        No further EA Action
System                           minimal environmental impacts         Required
Installation of a SWRO Plant     Category B- impacts are expected to   EA should examine the
                                 be moderate in nature and can be      project’s potential
                                 managed through the application of    negative and positive
                                 appropriate    engineering     and    environmental
                                 management measures.                  impacts and recommends
                                                                       any measures
                                                                       needed to prevent,
                                                                       minimize, mitigate,
                                                                       or compensate for adverse
                                                                       impacts and improve
                                                                       environmental performance.
Construction  of    Water Category B- impacts are expected to          EA should examine the
Distribution System  and be moderate in nature and can be              project’s potential negative
Access Roads              managed through the application of           and positive environmental
                          appropriate    engineering     and           impacts and recommends
                          management measures.                         any measures needed to
                                                                       prevent, minimize, mitigate,
                                                                       or compensate for adverse
                                                                       impacts and improve
                                                                       environmental performance.

                                                  6
2.2.    Methodology

The findings presented are based on professional judgment, stakeholder and expert consultations;
review of existing reports, studies, maps, and internet research.


2.2.1. Review Existing Information

Prior to visiting the project sites, the team undertook a review of studies and literature relevant to
the project. As part of this review of literature, the following were examined:


       Vulnerability and Adaptation Assessment Report


This study was conducted as part of the Second National Communication (SNC) project report.
Generally, the report examined the physical vulnerabilities in the agriculture, coastal zone, and
water sectors for comparison purposes while adding health, the main social sector, and tourism,
which is emerging as the key economic sector. The study also assesses how vulnerabilities in
these sectors are being and will continue to be affected by the vagaries of global climate change
and variability. Additionally, the study examines historic trends, consequences and response
mechanisms in a climate change context, for the selected sectors. Based on the assessment the
study made three main recommendations with respect to public awareness, strengthening of the
soil and water conservation strategies and technologies and strengthening the enforcement of the
building codes and regulations.


       Gilau, Asmerom (2009) Renewable Energy Powered Sea Water Reverse Osmosis for
        Bequia Island, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Final Report.

The objective of this study conducted by Mr. Gilau (consultant) was to design renewable energy
powered seawater reverse osmosis system for Bequia Island, St. Vincent and the Grenadines. In
this report, he outlined the design of the seawater reverse osmosis (SWRO) system; ; the options
for renewable energy (including a wind speed evaluation, wind turbine siting analysis and wind
                                                  7
turbine economic analysis); and a desalinated water economic analysis. The system design
elements of this report were drawn upon extensively and form the basis for the descriptive
elements of this environmental assessment.


2.2.2. Field Visits:

Several field visits to project sites were undertaken in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. During these
visits interviews were held with residents in the area, photographs were taken, and visual
inspections and activity screening2 were conducted and recorded.




2
 World Bank screening tool prescribed under OP 4.01 was utilized for this purpose. A sample is provided in
Appendix A
                                                       8
3. LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK

St. Vincent and the Grenadines has several pieces of Environmental legislation which address the
protection of the physical and human environment. The following are relevant in the context of
this project:
                   The Town and Country Planning Act No. 45 of 1992;
                   The Central Water & Sewerage Act of 1992;
                   The Waste Management Act, No. 31 of 2000;
                   The Litter Act, No. 15 of 1991;
                   The Environmental Services Act, No. 14 of 1991;
                   Land Acquisition Act, CAP 241; and
                   The Noise Control Act, 1988.



The Town and Country Planning Act No. 45 of 1992

Under section 3 of the Town and Country Planning Act, the Physical Planning and Development
Board was established. The Act makes provisions for the orderly and progressive development
of land and the proper planning of town and country areas. Section 29 (2) of the Act specifies
that the Board may by notice require an EIA to be submitted to it in such form and contain such
information as may be prescribed by the notice, in instances where it is of the opinion that the
activities are likely to cause or is causing pollution or is otherwise likely to have adverse effects
on the environment. While this is so, EIA regulations or other procedures to implement the
various provisions of the Act, however do not exist. Land management and development is
therefore an ad-hoc process and largely sector-driven. The Town and Country Planning Act also
establishes standards for setbacks from beaches, highways, riverbanks and other sensitive areas
however the major weakness as it relates to this project, is that of enforcement.



The Central Water & Sewerage Act of 1991

This Act makes provision for conservation, control, apportionment and use of water resources.
Under the Act the Minister with responsibility for the Environment has authority to set aside
                                              9
protected areas for the protection of water resource. National standards for the discharge of
treated effluents into surface water have not been established, but the current approach of the
Central Water and Sewerage Authority is to apply World Health Organization or European
Union standards.




Waste Management Act No. 31 of 2000

The Waste Management Act No. 31 of 2000 provides for the management of solid waste in
conformity with best environmental practices.        It defines the roles and responsibilities of the
National Solid Waste Authority and generally provides the framework for waste management
planning and waste management operations in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The Act is
supported by the Solid Waste Management Regulations of 2006, which, among other things,
establish the national standards for the handling of solid wastes such as derelict vehicles, scrap
tires, used oil and special waste and specify the requirements for obtaining licenses and permits
in connection with waste management operations.



The Litter Act No. 15 of 1991

This act makes provisions for the control of emissions and effluent discharge into water bodies,
but there are no accompanying regulations in place to support this Act. In addition, there are no
programmes for water quality monitoring for natural surface waters thus analyses are only be
done if a problem is suspected.



The Environmental Services Act, No 14, 1991

The act makes provision for conservation and maintenance of the environment in the interest of
Health generally and in particular in relation to places frequented by the public. This act
determines that the Ministry of Health and Environment has this responsibility. In this respect,
the Environmental Management Department is responsible for regulating, monitoring and
controlling any present and likely environmental pollution and to investigate, prevent and

                                                10
remediate environmental pollution, including the management and disposal of solid, liquid and
gaseous waste.



The Land Acquisition Act, Cap 241
Part I of the Act describes the process for acquisition of privately owned land by the Government
of St Vincent and the Grenadines which is initiated by the Governor General. The declaration of
acquisition is published in two ordinary issues of the Gazette and copies posted on a building (if
any) on the land or exhibited at suitable places in the locality in which the land is situated
detailing: a) the parish or district in which the land is situated; b) a description of the land; c) in
cases where a plan has been prepared, a place where same can be inspected; and d) the public
purpose for which the land was acquired.



Noise Control Act, 1988.

Section 5 of the Act describes a code of practice for noise control at construction sites, which is
enforced by the police. The Physical Planning Board may serve a notice specifying the type of
plant to be used for construction and setting limits for noise levels and working hours. Where
works of the listed type specified in the Act are intended, the developer must submit an
application to the Board and specify the exact nature of works, construction methods to be
applied and noise control measures proposed.




                                                  11
4. DESCRIPTION OF THE EXISTING ENVIRONMENT




4.1.     Physical attributes


4.1.1.         St. Vincent and the Grenadines

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines (SVG) is a multi-
island State within the archipelago of islands in the
Caribbean Sea called the Antilles. The country
consists of thirty-four islands, islets and cays and is
situated 13° north latitude, and 61° west longitude. It
is approximately 150 kilometres west of Barbados, 40
kilometres southwest of St. Lucia, 110 kilometres
north-northeast of Grenada, and 270 kilometres north
of Trinidad and Tobago. The main island, St. Vincent,
lies to the extreme north, is roughly elliptical in shape,
30 kilometres long and 16 kilometres wide, with an
estimated land area of 340 sq. km. The Grenadines cover a land area of approximately 50 sq.
km. and stretch a distance of 72 km. to the southwest of the mainland, St. Vincent. The seven
inhabited Grenadine islands are Bequia and Mustique in the Northern Grenadines; and Union,
Canouan, Mayreau, Palm Island, and Petit St. Vincent in the Southern Grenadines. In addition
there are a number of uninhabited islets and rocks, including the Tobago Cays, which are of
environmental, historic and economic significance.




4.1.2.         Location of Bequia
Bequia, the largest of the Grenadines islands is approximately 7 sq miles in size with a
population of 4,874 (1991 census).



                                                  12
4.1.3.         Geology and Soils

The north eastern portion of the island is composed mainly of horizontal layered sheets of
andesite, which alternate with thin beds of pyroclastic materials. The layers of the andesite have
a thickness varying from ten (10) to forty (40) feet, while the pyroclastic is approximately ten
(10) feet. The remaining portion is composed mainly of mixed pyroclastic.

The river alluviums are located mainly on the low lying areas along the coast. However, these
materials are the only suitable aquifer formation on the island. All the beaches comprise of white
sand which are derived from the erosion of the coral reef barriers. There are no perennial rivers
on the island, and the mouths of the river valleys are narrow, thus limiting the extent of the
horizontal and vertical alluvial deposits.

The soils of the Grenadines are shallow with a uniform vegetation distribution of scrub and cacti
vegetation.


4.1.4.         Climate

Bequia experiences a humid tropical
climate, with the temperature ranging
from     approximately       18     degrees
centigrade to 33 degrees centigrade, and
an annual average of about 26 degrees
centigrade.   There    are   two    distinct
seasons: a dry season from January to
May/June and a wet season from June to
December. Precipitation on the island is
very low. The average annual rainfall of
Bequia is about 1250 mm per year. The
period June to November is where the
most rain occurs with an average rainfall


                                               13
of 1500mm while the driest period is from February to April during which the average monthly
rainfall is about 250mm.

4.1.5.         Winds

The North East Trade Winds are prevailing winds on the island blowing from east to west with
an annual average speed of approximately 8-12 knots/hour. These winds impact the shape of the
shrub and tree vegetation on hillsides.

4.1.6.         Water
The topography and geology of Bequia does not allow it to have any natural streams.
Additionally, the size of the land mass limits the amount of water that can be collected from
rainfall. However, there are several dry water courses throughout the island, which channel the
water to the sea after heavy rains.

The sparsely organic matter in the calciferous soils of Bequia; makes soil water retention almost
nil, however, rivers and streams are virtually non-existent due to the limited ability of the island
to attract rainfall and because of the calciferous nature of the island which encourages any
rainwater to easily filter into the ground.

Many dikes can be found throughout the island varying in thickness from one (1) to twenty- five
(25) feet. A spring is located at Mount Pleasant which produces approximately one hundred and
fifty (150) gallons per day. Several hand dug wells are located near the beaches throughout the
island. Most produce brackish water.

4.1.7.         Seismicity

With the overlapping of the Atlantic and the Caribbean tectonic plates the island is prone to
earthquakes. The La Soufriere volcano which is situated approximately 60 miles north of Bequia
last erupted in 1979 had no effect on the island other than some volcanic ash deposit.



4.1.8 Biodiversity


                                                14
      Terrestrial Flora / Vegetation


The vegetation of Bequia is mainly dry shrub woodland. Within these forested areas are found a
wide variety of plants species and wildlife. Along the coast line of the rocky exposed cliff and
within the forests are the typical vegetative type such as cactus species which include (Opuntia
dillenii, Pilosocereus royeni and Melocactus intortus), salt tolerant grass (Sporobolus
virginicus), bushes, lowing lying dry shrubs and windswept trees such as (Tabebuia pallida and
Lonchocarpus violaceus).

Within most densely vegetative areas, the tree species differ in size and condition depending on
several variables such as location, windward in relation to leeward side of hill, elevation of slope,
exposure to salt-laden winds, and ease of human intervention. The characteristics of these
species are their height, diameter and crown cover which provide the habitat for the fauna of
Bequia and comprise of a wider variety of species such as, Naked Indian (Bursera simaruba),
Wild Fig ( Ficus citrifolia), Mapou (Pisonia fragrans), Leucaena (Leucaena leucoecphala) and
Fiddlewood (Citharexylum spinosum).

The Paget Farm area which is private land consists of dry shrub vegetation. The main forest
species is Leucaena (Leucaena leucoecphala).




      Terrestrial Fauna
Although several species of lizards and birds are found on the island there are no endangered
species or species endemic to Bequia. The major biodiversity issues relate to the marine species
like the hump-back whale and the leatherback turtle. Whales occasionally stray into the warm
waters around Bequia and are caught as a traditional cultural practice for food. Under CITES,
St. Vincent and the Grenadines is allowed to harvest four whales per year, however, there are
some years when no whale is caught.




                                                 15
There is a local initiative to rescue hatchlings and eggs of the leatherback turtle and nurse them
into safer sizes before release into the ocean. There is no control on the taking of adults and fish
pots are still used to trap pelagic and reef fish with no control on mesh size.



4.2.    Socio-economic context


The 2001 population census indicated that SVG has a population of 106,253 persons.
Approximately 90% of the population is of African descent, while the other 10% is a
combination of East Indian, European and indigenous people. St. Vincent and the Grenadines is
internationally classified as a lower-middle-income country. The economic development is
structured around the agriculture, tourism and international business services sectors. The Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) per capita (2004) is US$ 3,512; the literacy rate is 96% and the life
expectancy at birth is 74 years. The overall Human Development Index (HDI) Value is 0.751
and the country is ranked 87th in terms of HDI. In 2005, the public sector debt was over E.C.
$900 million.




                                                 16
5. TECHNICAL DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT ACTIVITIES


5.1 Sea Water Reverse Osmosis Plant


5.1.1.           Location of the SWRO Plant3
The proposed site for the RO system at Paget Farm is a fishing complex constructed in 1994
(figure 5-1). It has a small malfunctioned RO system and well (figure 5-7 and figure 5-8). The
RO system will be located at the top of an existing structure (figure 5-2). The new RO system
could be installed near or at the opposite ends of the old one. The temporary water tank at this
location will be used as temporary tack or launching tank to be continuously pumping water to
the major water tank that will be located at the east side of the mountain. Figures 5-1 and 5-2
show the overview of the site and existing infrastructures.

Figure 5-1- Paget Farm, Bequia- Proposed RO Sytem Location




3
 Source: Gileau Asmerom (2009) Renewable Energy Powered Sea Water Reverse Osmosis for Bequia Island, St.
Vincent and the Grenadines, Final Report.
                                                    17
Figure 5-2- Close up of Proposed Bequia RO System Location




5.1.1 Configuration of the SWRO Plant


The seawater reverse osmosis system (SWRO) will produce an average of 1,320 GPH (5m3/hr).
Depending on the period of operation, the reverse osmosis (RO) system could produce a
minimum of about 16,000 GPD (60 m3/day) and a maximum of 32,000 GPD (120 m3/day).


The RO system will have single stage flow configuration with either six membranes in a
single pressure vessel or three membranes in two pressure vessels. The size of the membrane is
8-inches in diameter and 40-inches long. The system will have pressure exchanger (PX) energy
recovery device which provides more than 34% energy saving. As a result, the PX device
reduces the total energy requirement to operate the SWRO system from 39kW to 26kW.

                                              18
The system will have both a pretreatment and a post-treatment component. The pretreatment
component constitutes one multimedia filtration system, and two 5μm and 10μm cartridge micro
filtration systems. In order to adjust the pH and inhibit or destroy the growth of microorganisms
the post treatment stage constitutes caustic dosing. Under this design, the expected Total
Dissolved Solids (TDS) of permeate is about 126.15 mg/L, which is with in the WHO water
quality
standards.


Figures 5-3 and 5-4 show the complete schematic diagrams of the RO system design options for
Bequia Island.



Figure 5-3 Schematic of Bequia RO system process steps and components with two
pressure vessels




                                               19
Figure 5-4 Schematic of Bequia RO system process steps and components with one
pressure vessel




5.1.2. Source, quality and volume of sea/feed water intake and quality of permeate


In designing the RO system, source of water, quality of water, feed flow, product flow and
quality of permeate are key parameters.


The source of the Caribbean seawater is open intake. (See Figures 5-5 and 5-6 below)

Figure 5-5 Proposed Sea-water Pumping Coastline




                                              20
Figure 5-6 Schematic diagram of sea water pumping system




Figure 5-7   Location of existing small sea water pump




                                            21
Figure 5-8    Malfunctioned existing small RO system




Table 5-1 shows the individual chemical characteristics of each ion. The feed salinity of the
Caribbean Sea used for the analysis is 36,046 ppm (Wang, Y., 2005). The primary purpose of the
reverse osmosis water product is for drinking. Thus, the produced water should meet the World
Health Organization (WHO)’s drinking water quality standard, which is about 500 ppm or less.
The design system meets such standards.

Table 5-1    Chemical Composition of Caribbean Sea Water




                                             22
i.     Pre-treatment
Pretreatment is usually required for all reverse osmosis systems to eliminate silt (suspended
solids), water hardness, chlorine and other oxidizers (REMCO, 2008). Pretreatment also
increases efficiency and life of reverse osmosis membranes. There are different pretreatment
configurations that work in front of a seawater reverse osmosis system. These include Multi-
media filtration, anti-scaling dosing system, and chlorination and de-chlorination.


However, In the Caribbean, where the open seawater intake is usually about 37,000 mg/L, RO
system operation of 29°C (84°F) and 40 percent recovery, seawater elements have been
operating for several years without seawater pretreatment (DOW FILMTEC Membranes Tech
Fact Sheet, 2008). The Caribbean seawater has high iron and sulfur content that tends to deposit
on the membrane surface. Despite the high fouling tendency of the feed water, the identified
plant was operating at relatively high average permeate flux (9.4 gfd or 16 L/m2h) and
continuously operated at 1,200 psi. In the neighbouring island of Mustique, the large scale
SWRO plant there uses no chemical pretreatment.


Therefore, the avoidance of chemical pretreatment is recommended once the SWRO
manufacturers demonstrate their pretreatment experience, in particular in the Caribbean, for a
sustained and successful desalination system. The system purchased will not include chemical
pre-treatment of the intake water.


The recommended pretreatment steps for the Bequia’s seawater reverse osmosis are:


       1. Multimedia filtration system: The multimedia filtration system must able to
       filter sands and sediments (turbidity) down to approximately 20 Microns. The media
       container must be
       corrosive resistant, a high performance composite and a fiberglass tank.


       2. Activated carbon filtration system: Automatic and manual backwashing system
       is available. The media must be contained in corrosive resistant, high performance
                                                23
       composite fiberglass tank.


       3. Cartridge micro filtration: Two 5μm and 10μm cartridge micro-filtration is
       required to maximize pretreatment.


Since the proposed RO system will not use pretreatment chemicals, there will not be any
seawater pollution from the direct disposal of the brine to the sea.

                                         Figure 5.9- Fishing activities and waste disposal at
During the field visits, it was observed the coastline
that the location is the launching pad of
fishing activities (figure 5-9). At the
location, there is an indication that the
fishermen might change their motor oil
at the site. Moreover, we have also
observed solid wastes disposed nearby
the fishing dock. Thus, in order to
proceed without chemical pretreatment,
the implementation of the RO system
requires   stringent   coastal    pollution
regulation and constant water quality monitoring. The regulation should prohibit and disposal
and oil replacement activities.



ii.    Energy Consumption

As energy consumption has the highest cost share in reverse osmosis systems, incorporating
energy recovery is one of the key components of this RO system design. Nowadays, energy
recovery turbines are available that save back about 30 - 40% energy (AquaCare, 2008,
Avlonitis et al., 2003). Thus, incorporating energy recovery turbines into the system design
allows substantial energy saving. However, it is important to select an energy recovery device
with excellent energy transfer performance and proven reliability.
                                                 24
There are several energy recovery types including a pelton wheel, a turbo charger, and a pressure
exchanger (PX). Some studies indicate that the last two are the most efficient devices of which
the pressure exchanger is the most efficient energy recovery system (Avlonitis et al., 2003).
Thus, the type of energy recovery device under consideration for the RO system is a positive
displacement-energy-recovery-device such as PX energy recovery device. PX energy recovery
devices have about 98% efficiency and are best fit for the system (Annex 2).


In general, the energy recovery device should at least function under the following conditions:


          Maximum average high-pressure inlet flow 8 - 10 m3/hr

          Maximum average high pressure outlet 65 Bar
          Maximum average temperature 250C



The proposed RO system will have pressure exchanger (PX) energy recovery device which
provides more than 34% energy saving. As a result, the PX device reduces the total energy
requirement to operate the SWRO system from 39kW to 26kW.



iii.       RO System Monitoring and Management


As is common practice nowadays, the RO system is expected to be equipped with programmed
logic controller (PLC) that monitors the system’s performance and informs whenever
malfunction of the system occurs.


Depending on the type of the RO system, it will require inspection at certain interval
during its operation. It will also require putting on and off the power system and
backwashing the RO system in order to protect the membrane’s fouling due to sediments



                                                25
deposition. The RO system will be equipped with automatic backwash system. The membranes
of the RO system will require replacement, approximately every three years.


In order to make sure that the quality of the produced water is with in the WHO and/or
St. Vincent and the Grenadines’ water quality standards, the responsible body (CWSA) will have
to take samples for testing at SVG’s Standards office.


Overall, the operation of the system is not expected to be complicated and an electrical
technician graduated from St. Vincent Technical College or VINLEC, should be able to operate
the system.


St. Vincent and the Grenadines has technical school and it will not be hard to find a technician
with fundamental electricity knowledge. VINLEC also has technicians capable of running the
system.


Experience shows that if the RO system operates around the clock, there is no need to put
personnel overnight to look after the system. It would be enough, to check it during the working
hours and let it run at night without attendance. This of course requires proper maintenance of
membrane, pipes and the electrical systems during the day. To ensure proper functioning, it is
essential to operate the system based on specific RO system’s operation and maintenance
manual.


5.2 Water Distribution System and Access Roads


The specific designs for the pipelines network, water tank containment structure and access
road have not yet been finalized, however, the pipeline work will be done at a later stage and
a dedicated study will be prepared, and there will be no access road to the tank, just an
improvement of the existing access.




                                               26
6. PREDICTED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND POTENTIAL MITIGATING
    MEASURES


The environmental impacts of Category B projects are expected to be moderate in nature and can
be managed through the application of appropriate engineering and management measures.
Further, most of the anticipated environmental issues will relate to construction site management
and construction operations.
The following sections describe the impacts expected in the construction and operation phases of
the project as well as potential mitigating measures.




6.1 Construction Phase Impacts

The land-based activities during the construction phase are not expected to go beyond those
typical of any small-scale construction works on the island. The impacts are not considered to be
significant since there will be minimal alteration to the existing fisheries complex site. The
impacts can be addressed through the application of the environmental rules for contractors
outlined in section 7.1.


The installation of photovoltaic cells on the rooftops of the selected buildings is not expected to
have any significant environmental impact. Health and Safety considerations outlined in section
7.1 will address risks to personnel.


6.1.1.           Inlet and Brine Discharge Pipeline Construction
The proposed intake depth is 7m. There are no environmentally sensitive habitats in the area and
the fisheries complex is built upon reclaimed land. Natural habitats4 will therefore not be



4
 According to OP/ BP 4.04 Natural habitats are land and water areas where (i) the ecosystems' bio-logical
communities are formed largely by native plant and animal species, and (ii) human activity has not essentially
modified the area's primary ecological functions. All natural habitats have important biological, social, economic,
and existence value. Important natural habitats may occur in tropical humid, dry, and cloud forests; temperate and
boreal forests; mediterranean-type shrub lands; natural arid and semi-arid lands; mangrove swamps, coastal marshes,
                                                        27
converted or degraded by this activity. No significant damage to the sea-floor is expected as a
result of laying the inlet pipes. There will be no need to construct a brine discharge pipeline
because the existing wastewater outfall from the fisheries complex will be utilized.


6.1.2.            Laying of water pipelines
The exact design and placement of the water distribution pipelines will be done by the CWSA.
These designs are not yet finalized. However, there are no natural habitats4 in the general area
which will be degraded as a result of laying of the pipelines. No significant excavation works are
anticipated.


However, traffic disruptions are expected. Also, access to private property may be necessary.
Mitigation:
        The environmental rules for contractors outlined in section 7.1 should be adhered to.
        Prior consent from land-holders must be obtained before accessing private property.


6.1.3.            Construction of water tank
The proposed location for the water tank is ideal in terms of facilitating gravity-fed distribution
of water to houses on the hillside, thereby minimizing electricity consumption from direct
pumping. However, the area is in a potential landslide zone which may present a hazard to
villagers.


Mitigation:
        A geotechnical engineering investigation of the site was conducted to determine its
         ability to accommodate the proposed water tank5. The tank will also be designed with a
         containment area at its base to contain any possible spillage and prevent soil saturation.




and other wetlands; estuaries; sea grass beds; coral reefs; freshwater lakes and rivers; alpine and sub alpine
environments, including herb fields, grasslands, and paramos; and tropical and temperate grasslands.
5
  A geotechnical survey of the proposed location of the water tank was conducted during the period of the EA
review by Trintoplan Consultants Ltd. Based on the results of the study, it was determined that the site was suitable
for the construction of the 20,000 gallon water tank to be located at 650 feet elevation as proposed.
                                                         28
       Excavation Surveys and Analysis was conducted as required with the results indicating
        that the site was in fact suitable for construction of the 90,000 litre capacity tank
        recommended for water storage.
       If the site is not suitable, then direct pumping can be utilized and additional PV cells
        introduced into the system to compensate for the associated electricity consumption.


6.2 Operation Phase Impacts


6.2.1. Water Intake
Generally, artificial structures in the marine environment, such as water intakes or discharge
outfalls could interfere with commercial and leisure navigation as well as with water currents and
transport of sediments and provide an attachment surface for marine organisms. Open intake of
sea water can cause marine organisms to be killed when they collide with intake screens
(impingement) or are drawn into the plant with the intake water (entrainment).


Mitigation:
   The proposed water intake will be submerged to 7m below the surface and is therefore not
    expected to interfere with commercial and leisure navigation.

   Navigational buoys will be placed on any new intakes and outfalls;

 Fishermen and boaters will be notified prior to constructions
   The relatively low intake volume for small scale plants such of the one under consideration
    make lower flow rates possible, thus low intake velocities are viable, which renders
    impingement unlikely to occur (UNEP, 20036; Just,20107).




6
  UNEP, 2003. Sea water desalination in the Mediterranean: assessment and guidelines.
http://www.unepmap.org/index.php?module=library&mode=pub&action=view&id=13719
7
  Just, F, 2010. Promotion of Renewable Energies for Water Production through Desalination- Guidelines for
regulation of desalination-Deliverable 6.2. Prodes Project. Available online at:
<http://www.desline.com/articoli/8889.pdf> [Accessed 13/05/11]

                                                       29
6.2.2. Waste Effluents
The waste effluent from RO desalination plants are composed of brine (concentrated saline
solution), backwash liquids and sludges from pre?treatment and cleaning processes containing
suspended solids and coagulant salts as well as anti?scaling, anti?fouling, anti?corrosion
chemicals. Because of the corrosive nature of the sea water and brine, trace-metals can also be
present.


The brine is generally negatively buoyant and their plumes tend to sink to the seafloor if not
sufficiently dissipated, forming a concentration of high salinity water which spreads across the
seafloor in the vicinity of the outfall pipe and can enter pores between sediments. Thus,
discharges from reverse osmosis plants generally impact on benthic (seafloor) communities.7


In addition, the difference in densities between discharge water and ambient seawater is a
controlling factor for how the discharged solution mixes and spreads with the receiving water,
which is important for engineered diffusion solutions (Lattemann 2010)8.


Mitigation:


   The salinity increase caused by plant discharges can effectively be alleviated by pre?dilution
    with other wastewater streams. However, the proposed discharge location has generally good
    mixing characteristics due to strong wave action and currents. Hence, dispersion should be
    rapid and impacts minimal even without pre-dilution.


   The proposed plant will not utilize chemicals in pre-treatment nor disinfection. This is in line
    with UNEP (2003) recommended best practice. However, some chemical usage will be
    needed during chemically enhanced backwash and periodic cleaning of the membranes. The



8
 Lattemann, S., 2010. Development of an Environmental Impact Assessment and decision support system for
seawater desalination plants. CRC Press/Balkema, Leiden, The Netherlands. Available at:
http://repository.tudelft.nl/search/ir/?q=lattemann&faculty=&department=&type=&year
                                                     30
    volumes of wastewater generated in the intermittent backwashing and cleaning processes
    should be relatively low. It should therefore be collected and treated rather than being
    disposed of through the effluent drainpipe.

   Pipes that have minimal corrosive properties by hazardous substances shall be used
    (polyethylene or titanium is preferable to copper nickel)

   Quality control procedures and personnel training shall be implemented to avoid accidental
    discharges of hazardous chemicals;


It should be noted that UNEP (2003) and other experts consider discharges from small RO
plants (installations of ~ less than 500 m³ output capacity per day ) to have minimal impact and it
is generally acceptable for them to rely on natural dispersal of the concentrate rather than
employing state of the art dispersal technology.


6.2.3. Energy Consumption and Air Emissions

RO desalination requires a significant amount of energy for operation. On Bequia, all of the
electricity supply is generated using fossil fuels. Therefore, the plant on its own would result in
increased emissions of green house gases and other combustion-related air pollutants.

Furthermore, since water will be supplied directly to households, there will no longer be any
need to transport water by barge to Bequia during severe dry seasons.

Mitigation:

       Grid-connected photovoltaic panels shall produce in surplus of the energy utilized by the
        RO system.
       The proposed RO system will have pressure exchanger (PX) energy recovery device
        which provides more than 34% energy saving. As a result, the PX device reduces the
        total energy requirement to operate the SWRO system from 39kW to 26kW.




                                                   31
6.2.4. Socio-Economic Impacts


Provision of reliable access to safe drinking water will reduce the incidence of water-borne
diarrhoeal diseases which frequently occur during the dry season due to a lack of clean water in
the Paget Farm community. This will lead to a reduction in medical costs and improve school
attendance. However, if the price of the water is too high, it will still not be accessible to those
who most need it. On the other hand, if the price is too low, it may encourage wastage and poor
conservation practices.


Furthermore, source water contamination can also be a public health risk. The range of total
dissolved solids (TDS) of saline water as well as high concentrations of sodium, calcium,
magnesium, bromide, idodide, sulphate and chloride; are a major concern. Petroleum
contamination and microbial pollutions are also possible risks.


An additional benefit of the project is that the construction, operation and maintenance of the
plant will also provide employment opportunities to a few persons from the community.


Mitigation:
    Water pricing should be structured in a manner which balances profitable pricing systems
     and a basic right to water access could be established through the use of lifeline rates.
     These low or even cost-free rates apply to a minimum water volume that would be
     considered non-discretionary (e.g. for consumption and sanitary requirements) with any
     usage above that being charged at a higher specified price (US EPA 2009). For lifeline
     rates to be applied successfully, the minimum water requirement has to be determined by
     country and area-specific studies, taking into consideration water availability, climate and
     traditional consumption rates.


    An assessment of potential continuous or intermittent pollutant sources in the vicinity of
     the intake should be carried out. It would also be useful to conduct a complete source water
     analysis at potential intake site in order to minimise contamination risks. This should
                                                32
include a thorough examination of the raw water’s physical, microbial and chemical
characteristics. The analysis should also considers factors that will impact the plant's
operation, such as water temperature, total dissolved solids (TDS), total suspended solids
(TSS), total organic carbon (TOC) and components with membrane scaling potential,
which include calcium, magnesium and silica.




                                         33
7. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)

The EMP provides guidance on actions which must be taken during the implementation and
operational phase of the project to ensure that activities are undertaken in an environmentally
sustainable fashion so as to minimize the impact of the initiative on the surrounding
environment, both human and natural. Table 7-1 below outlines the EMP.



Table 7-1 Environmental Management Plan Summary

Activity                        Needed        Environmental        Implementation   Institutional            Source        of
                                Mitigation,      Enhancement,      Schedule         Responsibilities         Funds
                                Monitoring               and/or
                                Training Actions
Construction Phase Activities
1.         Installation    of    Contractor clauses outlined                       PV            System     Project    Grant
photovoltaic cells                in   section     7.1   below                      Contractor               Funds
                                  employed
2. Installation of Salt Water                                                       SWRO Contractor          Project    Grant
                                 Contractor clauses outlined
Reverse Osmosis (SWRO)            in section 7.1 below                              Supervision by the       Funds         –
System                            employed                                          Project     Engineer,    Contract
                                                                                    Fisheries Division       payment
                                                                                    and the Ministry of
                                                                                    Transport         and
                                                                                    Works
3.Laying of Inlet pipeline to                                                       SWRO Contractor          Project    Grant
                                 Pipes that have minimal
SWRO system                       corrosive properties by                           Supervision by the       Funds         –
                                  hazardous substances shall                        Project     Engineer,    Contract
                                  be used (polyethylene or
                                  titanium is preferable to                         the          Fisheries   payment
                                  copper nickel)                                    Division and the
                                 Navigational buoys placed                         Ministry           of
                                  on any new intakes and
                                  outfalls;                                         Transport         and

                                 Fishermen and boaters                             Works
                                  notified      prior to
                                  constructions




4. Construction of water tank    A geotechnical assessment                         Central Water and        Project    Grant


                                                                  34
Activity                         Needed           Environmental       Implementation   Institutional            Source           of
                                 Mitigation,        Enhancement,      Schedule         Responsibilities         Funds
                                 Monitoring               and/or
                                 Training Actions
                                   of the site for construction                        Sewerage                 and         CCCCC
                                   of the water tank should be                         Authority                Counterpart
                                   conducted to determine its                                                   Funds
                                   suitability.
                                  A containment structure
                                   should      be    designed   to
                                   retain any spillage from the
                                   tank.

                                  The site should be secured
                                   to    prevent     unauthorized
                                   access.
5.    Laying       of    water                                                         Central Water and        Caribbean
distribution pipelines                                                                 Sewerage                 Community
                                                                                       Authority                Climate Change
                                                                                                                Centre, CWSA
Operation Phase Activities
6. Production of desalinated      Quality control procedures                          Plant       Operators
(drinking) water                   and       personnel    training                     (Central Water and       Project      Grant
                                   shall be implemented to                             Sewerage                 Funds       (during
                                   avoid accidental discharges                         Authority)               commissioning /
                                   of hazardous chemicals;                                                      testing),
                                  An assessment of potential                                                   Water        tarrifs
                                   continuous or intermittent                                                   and       sale   of
                                   pollutant sources in the
                                   vicinity of the intake                               Central       Water    excess
                                   should be carried out. It                                                    electricity from
                                                                                        and        Sewerage
                                   would also be useful to
                                   conduct a complete source                            Authority,        the   PV System
                                   water analysis at potential
                                                                                        Public       Health
                                   intake site in order to
                                   minimise contamination                               Department
                                   risks. This should include a                         (Ministry         of
                                   thorough examination of
                                   the raw water’s physical,                            Health and the
                                   microbial and chemical
                                                                                        Environment), the
                                   characteristics. The
                                   analysis should also                                 Bureau            of
                                   considers factors that will
                                                                                        Standards
                                   impact the plant's
                                   operation, such as water
                                   temperature, total dissolved
                                   solids (TDS), total
                                   suspended solids (TSS),
                                                                     35
Activity                         Needed            Environmental           Implementation   Institutional           Source          of
                                 Mitigation,       Enhancement,            Schedule         Responsibilities        Funds
                                 Monitoring                    and/or
                                 Training Actions
                                   total organic carbon (TOC)
                                   and components with
                                   membrane scaling
                                   potential, which include
                                   calcium, magnesium and
                                   silica.

                                  Water Quality Monitoring
                                   of the water at the intake
                                   and outlet should also be
                                   conducted on a regular
                                   basis.




7. Discharge of effluent          On        occasions           when                       SWRO            plant   Water       tarrifs
                                   flushing is insufficient due                             operators               and      sale   of
                                   to       very     calm         seas,                                             excess
                                   pre?dilution      with        other                                              electricity from
                                   wastewater streams should                                                        PV System
                                   be employed. (Rainwater
                                   from the cistern on site
                                   could be utilized for this
                                   purpose)


8.   Water     Storage     and    Water storage area should                                CWSA                    Water       tarrifs
distribution                       be   secured          to    prevent                                              and      sale   of
                                   unauthorized access.                                                             excess
                                  Pipelines        should          be                                              electricity from
                                   regularly maintained and                                                         PV System
                                   monitored        to        minimize
                                   leakage.
9. Cleaning of membranes          The wastewater generated                                 SWRO            plant   Water       tarrifs
and plant maintenance              during                intermittent                       operators               and      sale   of
                                   backwashing and cleaning                                                         excess
                                   processes         should         be                                              electricity from
                                   collected        and         treated                                             PV System


                                                                          36
Activity                          Needed          Environmental        Implementation   Institutional      Source          of
                                  Mitigation,     Enhancement,         Schedule         Responsibilities   Funds
                                  Monitoring                and/or
                                  Training Actions
                                     separately    rather      than
                                     being disposed of through
                                     the effluent drainpipe.


                                                                                                           Water       tarrifs
In addition to the above actions, an emergency management/ contingency plan shall be developed by the      and      sale   of
operators of the plant to deal with the following situations, inter alia:                                  excess
          Natural disasters                                                                               electricity from
          Contamination of intake water                                                                   PV System
          leakage/ spillage of chemicals, brine or fuel
          breaks in distribution system



In order to strengthen compliance with the EMP, the actions and recommendations described
below shall also form clauses in contracts that govern construction and project implementation.




7.1.        Environmental Rules for Contractors
The following clauses are to be applied to all small works contracts, and should be applied by
constructors and during the implementation phase:

7.1.1 Site Security

The contractor shall be responsible for maintaining security over the construction site including
the protection of stored materials and equipment. In the event of severe weather, the contractor
shall secure the construction site and associated equipment in such a manner as to protect the site
and adjacent areas from consequential damages. This includes the management of onsite wastes,
construction and sanitary, additional strengthening of erosion control and soil stabilization
systems and other conditions resulting from contractor activities that may increase the potential
for damages.



                                                                      37
7.1.2 Discovery of antiquities

If, during the execution of the activities contained in this contract, any material is discovered
onsite which may be considered of historical or cultural interest, such as evidence of prior
settlements, native or historical activities, evidence of any existence on a site which may be of
cultural significance, all work shall stop and the supervising contracting officer shall be notified
immediately. The area in which the material was discovered shall be marked and the evidence
preserved for examination.


Work may resume, without penalty of prejudice to the contractor upon permission from the
Public Sector Investment Programme Management Unit with any restrictions offered to protect
the site.




7.1.3 Asbestos

While asbestos materials have not been identified in structures falling under this project, the
following asbestos management procedures shall be implemented should they be discovered
during the construction process.


The contractor shall contact the Solid Waste Management Unit to develop an asbestos
management plan.      Site management shall consist of stabilizing friable asbestos and the
provision of worker protection to prevent contamination with asbestos fibers.           Respiratory
protection together with measures to prevent the contamination of clothing and inadvertent
transport of asbestos fiber off-site shall be provided to exposed workers.


The asbestos management plan shall be developed by the contractor in consultation with the
Solid Waste Management Unit to include as a minimum:


       Description of the issue and extent of contamination
                                                 38
      Site safety measures
      Stabilization techniques to be employed
      Storage and transport plan
      Approved disposal procedure
      Worker awareness and training


This plan shall be approved by the Solid Waste Management Unit and the Public Sector
Investment Programme Management Unit.


7.1.4 Worker Sanitation

Sanitation facilities shall be provided to site workers. All sanitary wastes generated as a result of
project activities shall be managed in a manner approved by the Public Sector Investment
Programme Management Unit. The contractor shall provide a site sanitation plan for approval
and implementation prior to the commencement of site activities.

7.1.5 Noise Control
The contractor shall control noise emissions generated as a result of contracting activities to the
extent possible. In the case of site locations where noise disturbance will be a concern, the
contractor shall ensure that the equipment is in good working order with manufacturer supplied
noise suppression (mufflers etc.) systems functioning and in good repair.             Where noise
management is a concern, the contractor shall make reasonable efforts to schedule activities
during normal working hours (between 8 am and 5 pm). Where noise is likely to pose a risk to
the surrounding community, the contractor shall inform the site manager and shall develop a
public notification and noise management plan for approval by the Public Sector Investment
Programme Management Unit.

7.1.6 Use and management of hazardous materials, fuels, solvents and petroleum
       products



                                                 39
Any use hazardous materials excluding pesticides, oils, fuels and petroleum products shall
conform to the proper use recommendations of the product. Waste hazardous materials and their
containers shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the relevant agency. A site management
plan will be developed by the contractor if the operation involves the use of these materials to
include estimated quantities to be consumed in the process, storage plans, spill control plans, and
waste disposal practices to be followed. This plan is subject to the approval of the contracting
officer.


7.1.7 Use of preservatives and paint substances

All paints and preservatives shall be used only with the approval of the contracting officer.
Information shall be provided to the contracting officer that describes the essential components
of the materials to be used so that an informed determination can be made as to the potential for
environmental effects and suitability can be made. Storage, use, and disposal of excess paints
and preservatives shall be managed in conformance with the manufacturers’ recommendations
and as approved by the contracting officer. The contractor shall provide the contracting officer
with a list of materials and estimated quantities to be used, storage, spill control and waste
disposal plans to be observed during the execution of the contract. This plan is subject to the
approval of the contracting officer.


7.1.8 Hunting and Gathering

Under no circumstances will the contractor or its employees engage in hunting or gathering
activities during the execution of the contract as a means of sustenance for contract employees.



7.1.9 Site stabilization and erosion control

The Contractor shall implement measures at the site of operations to manage soil erosion through
minimization of excavated area, preservation of existing ground cover to the extent possible,
provision of approved ground cover.

                                                40
Where excavations are made, contractor shall implement appropriate stabilizing techniques to
prevent cave-in or landslide. Erosion control measures shall be approved by the contracting
officer.


An erosion management plan will be required where the potential exists for significant sediment
quantities to accumulate in wetlands, lakes, rivers and near-shore marine systems. This plan
shall include a description of the potential threat, mitigation measures to be applied, and
consideration for the effects of severe weather and an emergency response plan.


7.1.10 Management of standing water

Under no circumstances shall the contractor permit the collection of standing water as a
consequence of contractor activities without the approval of the contracting officer and
consultation with the Environmental Management Department of the Ministry of Health and the
Environment.




7.1.11 Management of trash and debris

The contractor shall provide the contracting officer with a trash and debris management plan that
conforms to the solid waste management policies and regulations of St. Vincent and the
Grenadines.    Under no circumstances shall the contractor allow construction wastes to
accumulate so as to cause a nuisance or health risk due to the propagation of pests and disease
vectors. The site waste management plan shall include a description of how wastes will be
stored, collected and disposed of in accordance with current law. Additionally the contractor
shall provide for the regular removal and disposal of all site wastes and provide the contracting
officer with a schedule for such removal.




                                               41
7.1.12 Traffic Management

In the event that contractor activities will result in the disruption of area transportation services,
including temporary loss of roadway, blockage due to deliveries and site related activities, the
contractor shall provide the contracting officer with a traffic management plan including a
description of the anticipated service disruptions, community information plan, and traffic
control strategy to be implemented so as to minimize the impact to the surrounding community.
This plan shall consider time of day for planned disruptions, and shall include consideration for
access to essential services such as medical, disaster evacuation, and other critical services. The
plan shall be approved by the contraction officer.




7.1.13 Agency Responsibility

Several government agencies have responsibility for decision making on development and
resource use. As it relates to EIAs the following are the key agencies:


Agency                                               Responsibility
Physical Planning and Development Board              Planning permission and development control
Pesticide Control Board                              Control of importation, distribution and use of
                                                     pesticides
Central Water and Sewerage Authority                 Conservation, control distribution and use of water
                                                     resources
Public Health Department                             Maintenance of the environment generally and in
                                                     particular place frequented by the public




                                                 42
8. CONSULTATIONS WITH POPULATION AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS


The project sites were visited on a number of occasions, and opinions and feedback from
involved population and institutions was continuously gathered. A specific meeting was held in
Bequia, on 12th May 2010. A summary of the discussion and list of participants can be found on
Appendix B. At the time of the consultation, the project was studying the option of installing a
wind turbine as the source of sustainable energy. Later on the process, after detailed analysis, the
option chosen was photovoltaic panels, to be installed on top of a hangar at the local airport. This
decision drastically reduced the expected impacts on environment and population.




                                                43
APPENDIX A - SCREENING TOOL/SCOPING CHECKLIST

       Questions to be considered in Scoping           Yes/No?   Which Characteristics     Is the effect likely to
                                                                 of      the     Project   be significant? Why?
                                                                 Environment could be
                                                                 affected and how?
1. Will construction, operation or decommissioning of the Project involve actions which will cause physical
changes in the locality (topography, land use, changes in waterbodies, etc)?
1.1     Permanent or temporary change in land
        use, land cover or topography including
        increases in intensity of land use?

1.2    Clearance of existing land vegetation and
       buildings?
1.3    Creation of new land uses?
1.4    Pre-construction investigations      -   e.g.
       boreholes, soil testing?

1.5    Construction works?
1.6    Demolition works?
1.7    Temporary sites used for construction
       works or housing of construction
       workers?
1.8    Above ground buildings, structures or
       earthworks including linear structures, cut
       and fill or excavations?

1.9    Underground works including mining or
       tunnelling?

1.10   Reclamation works?
1.11   Dredging?
1.12   Coastal structures - e.g. seawalls, piers?
1.13   Offshore structures?
1.14   Production and manufacturing processes?
1.15   Facilities for storage of goods or
       materials?
1.16   Facilities for treatment or disposal of solid
       wastes or liquid effluents?

1.17   Facilities for long term housing of
       operational workers?

1.18   New road, rail or sea traffic during
       construction or operation?

1.19   New road, rail, air, waterborne or other
       transport infrastructure including new or
       altered routes and stations, ports, airports,
       etc.?

                                                         44
       Questions to be considered in Scoping           Yes/No?   Which Characteristics     Is the effect likely to
                                                                 of      the     Project   be significant? Why?
                                                                 Environment could be
                                                                 affected and how?
1.20   Closure or diversion of existing transport
       routes or infrastructure leading to changes
       in traffic movements?

1.21   New or diverted transmission lines or
       pipelines?
1.22   Impoundment, damming, culverting,
       realignment or other changes to the
       hydrology of watercourses or aquifers?

1.23   Stream crossings?
1.24   Abstraction or transfers of water from
       ground or surface waters?

1.25   Changes in waterbodies or the land
       surface affecting drainage or run-off?

1.26   Transport of personnel or materials for
       construction,       operation         or
       decommissioning?
1.27   Long       term      dismantling      or
       decommissioning or restoration works?

1.28   Ongoing activity during decommissioning
       which could have an impact on the
       environment?
1.29   Influx of people to an area either
       temporarily or permanently?

1.30   Introduction of alien species?
1.31   Loss of native species           or   genetic
       diversity?
1.32   Any other actions?
2. Will construction or operation of the Project use natural resources such as land, water, materials or
energy, especially any resources which are non-renewable or in short supply?
2.1    Land      especially    undeveloped        or
       agricultural land?

2.2    Water?
2.3    Minerals?
2.4    Aggregates?
2.5    Forests and timber?
2.6    Energy including electricity and fuels?
2.7    Any other resources?



                                                         45
       Questions to be considered in Scoping                  Which Characteristics Is the effect likely to
                                                        Yes/No?
                                                              of      the     Project be significant? Why?
                                                              Environment could be
                                                              affected and how?
3. Will the Project involve use, storage, transport, handling or production of substances or materials which
could be harmful to human health or the environment or raise concerns about actual or perceived risks to
human health?
3.1     Will the project involve use of substances
        or materials which are hazardous or toxic
        to human health or the environment (flora,
        fauna, water supplies)?

3.2    Will the project result in changes in
       occurrence of disease or affect disease
       vectors - e.g. insect or water borne
       diseases?
3.3    Will the project affect the welfare of
       people - e.g. by changing living
       conditions?
3.4    Are there especially vulnerable groups of
       people who could be affected by the
       project - e.g. hospital patients, the elderly?

3.5    Any other causes?


4. Will the Project produce solid wastes during construction or operation or decommissioning?
4.1    Spoil, overburden or mine wastes?
       Municipal waste (household             and/or
4.2    commercial wastes)?

4.3    Hazardous or toxic wastes (including
       radioactive wastes)?

4.4    Other industrial process wastes?
4.5    Surplus product?
4.6    Sewage sludge or other sludges from
       effluent treatment?

4.7    Construction or demolition wastes?
4.8    Redundant machinery or equipment?
4.9    Contaminated soils or other material?
4.10   Agricultural wastes?
4.11   Any other solid wastes?
5. Will the Project release pollutants or any hazardous, toxic or noxious substances to air?
5.1    Emissions from combustion of fossil fuels
       from stationary or mobile sources?

5.2    Emissions from production processes?

                                                          46
       Questions to be considered in Scoping         Yes/No?   Which Characteristics     Is the effect likely to
                                                               of      the     Project   be significant? Why?
                                                               Environment could be
                                                               affected and how?
5.3    Emissions from materials           handling
       including storage or transport?

5.4    Emissions from construction activities
       including plant and equipment?

5.5    Dust or odours from handling of materials
       including construction materials, sewage
       and waste?

5.6    Emissions from incineration of waste?
5.7    Emissions from burning of wastes in open
       air - e.g. slash material, construction
       debris?
5.8    Emissions from any other sources?
6. Will the Project cause noise and vibration or release of light, heat energy or electromagnetic radiation?
6.1    From operation of equipment - e.g.
       engines, ventilation plant, crushers?

6.2    From industrial or similar processes?
6.3    From construction or demolition?
6.4    From blasting or piling?
6.5    From construction or operational traffic?
6.6    From lighting or cooling systems?
6.7    From sources of electromagnetic radiation
       (consider effects on nearby sensitive
       equipment as well as people)?

6.8    From any other sources?
7. Will the Project lead to risks of contamination of land or water from releases of pollutants onto the ground
or into sewers, surface waters, groundwater, coastal waters or the sea?
7.1    From handling, storage, use or spillage of
       hazardous or toxic materials?

7.2    From discharge of sewage or other
       effluents (whether treated or untreated) to
       water or the land?

7.3    By deposition of pollutants emitted to air,
       onto the land or into water?

7.4    From any other sources?
7.5    Is there a risk of long term build-up of
       pollutants in the environment from these
       sources?

                                                       47
       Questions to be considered in Scoping          Yes/No?   Which Characteristics     Is the effect likely to
                                                                of      the     Project   be significant? Why?
                                                                Environment could be
                                                                affected and how?
8. Will there be any risk of accidents during construction or operation of the Project which could affect
human health or the environment?
8.1    From explosions, spillages, fires, etc. from
       storage, handling, use or production of
       hazardous or toxic substances?

8.2    From events beyond the limits of normal
       environmental protection - e.g. failure of
       pollution control systems?

8.3    From any other causes?
8.4    Could the project be affected by natural
       disasters causing environmental damage -
       e.g. floods, earthquakes, landslip, etc?

9. Will the Project result in social changes, for example, in demography, traditional lifestyles, employment?
9.1    Changes in population size, age, structure,
       social groups, etc.?

9.2    By resettlement of people or demolition of
       homes or communities or community
       facilities - e.g. schools, hospitals, social
       facilities?
9.3    Through in-migration of new residents or
       creation of new communities?

9.4    By placing increased demands on local
       facilities or services - e.g. housing,
       education, health?
9.5    By creating jobs during construction or
       operation or causing the loss of jobs with
       effects on unemployment and the
       economy?
9.6    Any other causes?
10. Are there any other factors which should be considered such as consequential development which could
lead to environmental effects or the potential for cumulative impacts with other existing or planned activities
in the locality?
10.1 Will the project lead to pressure for
        consequential development which could
        have       significant impact  on    the
        environment - e.g. more housing, new
        roads, new supporting industries or
        utilities, etc?




                                                        48
APPENDIX B


                              Summary of Meeting held in Bequia
                                       12th May 2010

        Re: Special Programme for Adaptation to Climate Change (SPACC) Project

A list of the residents who attended the meeting is attached.

The meeting was called to order at approximately 18.35. Opening remarks were made by Mr
Herman Belmar, Deputy Director of Grenadines Affairs. Mr Edmund Jackson gave an overview
of the Project which is funded by the World Bank and implemented by the Caribbean
Community Climate Change Centre (CCCCC).

Mr Belmar gave a more in-depth description of the Project from the inception – i.e. the choosing
of the sites, options for the water supply and energy and the decision to go with the SWRO plant
and the wind turbine for energy. He also indicated that geotechnical survey would be conducted
the following week. Mr Ottis Joslyn, who conducted the Environmental Assessment, gave a
summary of the process and the outcomes.

The floor was then opened for comments and questions. Residents wanted to know how many
persons would be served by the Project; the level of noise which would be emitted from the wind
turbine; what would happen to the turbine in the even of winds of high speeds; the cost of the
water to the eventual consumers; contingency plans in the event the tank(s) rupture; the disposal
of the brine from the desalination process; and they also wanted assurances that the water quality
would be monitored.

These questions were answered by Mr Joslyn, Mr Belmar and Mr Jackson, based on the studies
that had been performed up to date. Those studies showed that the level of noise of the wind
turbine on the closest homes would be almost negligible given the size of the turbine. Also, it
was indicated that the SWRO plant would produce water for the whole Paget Farm community.
The wind turbine would have a device to automatically shut it down and put it in a safe mode in
case of strong winds. The tank rupture case was noted, and the tank will be constructed with a
security containment structure. The water quality monitoring would have to be undertaken by
local authorities and the water distribution company. The group meeting was dismissed with a
remarkable support from the communities, who struggle with water supply and see this project as
a possibility to improve their supply conditions. No further questions were raised.




                                                49
LIST OF PARTICIPANTS AT MEETING HELD ON 12th MAY 2010 IN BEQUIA




                                 50
51
