Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8932
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
TEXTILE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1205-BD)
JULY 27, 1990
Resident Mission, Bangladesh
Country Department 1
Asia Region
Tis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ACRONYMS
BMR     -      Balancing, modernization and rehabilitation
BTMC    -      Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation
DCA     -      Development Credit Agreement
GOB     -      Government of Bangladesh
NOT     -      Ministry of Textiles
PA      -      Project Agreement
PC      -      Planning Cell
PCR     -      Project: Completion Report
PIC     -      Project Implementation Cell
PU      -      Procurement Unit
SFYP    -      Second Five Year Plan
TA      -      Technical Assistance



FOR OvvICw" US ONLY
THf WORLD SANK
Washingo. D-C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oke. nA Coiwctw.GiEWt
July 27, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO TEE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report on Bangladesh
Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1205-BD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Proje^t
Completion Report on Bangladesh - Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1205.D)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a retre distribution Sd maY be used bY reipints o1y in tbhepefoman
of thei offticia dutes. Its cotents ma notgotrwtie be diced without Word Bank autoritank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT CrOtPETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
TEXTILE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1205-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Parte No.
PREFACE                                                                   .......                        i
EVALUATION SUMMAY  ................    ................................                               iii
PART I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE  .....................                                   I
X, Proiect Idntity  ..#.........................................                                .    .......... 1
2.   Backaround                     ..............           ........................                 1
Link with sector and Macro Policy Objectives  .... ....... .....                            2
3.   Proiect Obiectives and DescriDtion   ...........................                                 2
Objectives  ..2...................                                                          2
Project Description  ..................                                                     2
4.   Pro'.ct Desisn and Organization  ............ ............... ...                                3
5.   Proiect Implementation  .......  ................                                                3
Credit Effectiveness  and Project Start Up  .................                               4
Project Scope  ........ ...                .....**.........                .......          4
Procurement  .. .**.........**.....*..* ...........*..... .                                 4
Implementation Schedule  * . .................................  .                           4
Project Costs  .......... e..... 0..... ....................................                4
Disbursement  .............*.             .....* *..*...*....** ........                    5
Closing Date  .            .................... . .....................                     5
Risk Identification  .. .... ..... . *..              *...    .......*..*.... ...           5
6.   Protect Results  . . . . . . . .0. .      * ............  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .              5
Physical Results  * * * ....... *...* ...... .. . .. .    ................  .               5
Financial Performance  .               .... .......*.. ..*........ ......                   7
Institution Building  ...*   ........................      9
International Competitiveness   * ............................                              9
Yarn Distribution and Pricing Policy Reforms  ..........*....                               9
7. Proiect Sustainabilitv ........                      .................                             9
8.   IDA's Performance  ...........  ............ . ......................... .                      10
9.   Borrowers'  Performance  .........................                      ...........            10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
Page No.
10.  Proiect RelationshiD ..                 ...........*   .........               11
11.  ConsultinR Services ..             ........     ...**.....ee**.......          11
12.  Proiect Documentation and Data ...............................                 11
13.  Lessons from the Proiect   ......       ...               ....*... .....       11
Improving Performance of Public Enterprises ................               11
Project Design .......   . .... .............** ...........                12
Other Lessons  *......*..........                  .... **......t          13
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .......... ......                14
A.  Evaluation of the Bank's Performance .................. . ..         ...*       14
B.  Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance .................... ...              15
C. Assessment of Effectiveness of the Relationship between
the Bank and the Borrower ...       *..................* .......            15
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION .................................                  17
Tables:
1.  Related Bank Loans .........* ..*.................                             17
2.  List of the Project Mills ............**#  ...... ........... 0                18
3.  Project Timetable ..............   0 ......0.................................  19
4.  Project Costs sad Financing .......... . . . . .  .............  . . .  .... . ........  20
5.  Credit Disbursement                     .....................    .             22
6.  Project Implementation ............................                            24
7.  Indicators of Project Achievement ............................                 25
8.  Operational Performance of Project Mills ............ .........                26
9.  Financial Performance of Project Mills .......................                 28
10.  Financial Performance of all BTMC Mills ......................                 30
11.  Financial Restructuring ...          .................. .    ... ..... ....    31
12.  TA Studies ....... ##........... .....        O"".... ........ .................  33
13.  Use of Bank Resources ....... #          . ................o... ........       34
14.  Status of Compliance with Covenants .................                ....      36



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
TEXTILE INDUSTRY RERABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1205-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Textile Industry
Rehabilitation Project in Bangladesh for which Credit 1205-BD, in the amount
of US$30.0 million, was approved on February 4, 1982. The Credit closed on
December 31, 1986, after a one year extension. On closing, only US$7.7 mil-
lion (26X) of the Credit had been disbursed and the balance of US$22.3 mil-
lion was cancelled.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was jointly
prepared by the Industrial and Energy Unit of the Resident Mission,
Bangladesh (RMB) and the Industry and Energy Operations Division of Country
Department 1, Asia Region, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
This PCR was prepared during FY90 and is based, inter alia, on the
Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit and Project Agreements, super-
vision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and internal
Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGIADESH
TEXTILE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1205-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMYAR
Obiectives
1.       Based upon detailed reviews of the technical operation of the
Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation's (B3MC) in 1979-80 by UNDP/UNIDO-funded
technical advisors, the main objective of the project (para. 3.1) was to make
a group of pre-selected public sector mills internationally competitive and
financially viable through a program of equipment balancing, modernization
and rehabilitation (BMR). This BMR program vas supported by efforts to
improve overall performance of the sector and BTMC through provision of tech-
nical aosistance to strengthen sectoral planning, improve management capaci-
ties, implement financial restructuring, and change yarn pricing and dis-
tribution policies.
2.       The project included financing for the BMR of 15 mills, quality
control equipment for all BTMC mills, and technical essistance to strengthen
BTMC's management and Government sectoral planning capacity (para. 3.2).
Total project costs were projected at US$43.9 million, of which IDA was to
finance US$30.0 million.
Imnlementation Exverience
3.       Prom the  outset the success of project  implementation was
jeopardized by changee in Government policy and significant changes in the
project's physical structure.  Within months of credit effectiveness the
Government denationalized nine of the selected project mills. Although
replacement mills had already been identified through an earlier economic
evaluation process, protracted GOB/BTMC delays in agreeing on the replacement
mills and in obtaining subsequent approval from the Planning Commission to
include the replacement mills in the project eventually reduced the project
scope to six mills (para. 5.3).  Subsequently, because of inordinate procure-
ment delays (para. 5.4),   BMR programs of only three mills   could be
completed by the extended closing date. Of the TA components, the financial
restructuring program (pars. 6.11) and the institution building component
(para. 6.13) were suibstantially implemented. At closing, actual project costs
were 271 of the appraisal estimates (para. 5.6) and only US$7.7 million was
disbursed (para. 5.7).
Results
4.       Overall the project achieved only marginal improvement in physical
output (paras. 6.2 to 6.6 and Table 7 and 8) and had little impact upon the
reform of sectoral policies and procedures.   Incremental yarn and fabric
production for the project mills increased only 61 and 31, respectively.



- iv -
Despite massive equity infusions the financial performance of BTHC overa'l,
and the project mills in particular, did not improve and the mills did not
achieve viability.   Five of the project mills had losses in five or more
years (Table 9) during the first six years following the initiation of the
project. The institution building objectives, for the most part, were not
achieved because of lack of Government/BTMC commitment to them.
Sustainabilitv
5.       Although three mills have achieved some incremental improvement,
given the continued policy, procedural and institutional constraints that
face BTMC and the rehabilitated mills, the project is unsustainable
(para. 7.1).
Findinas and Lessons Learied
6.       Overall, the project's impact was disappointing. The project failed
to meet its objectives and did little to address the more pervasive elements
constraining efficient performance by the sector i.e., the adverse policy
environment and the lack of BTMClmills operating autonomy. IDA gave undue
weight to Government's frequently stated commitment to the project and to the
need to introduce policy reform and, therefore, focussed too much on physical
rehabilitation of the industry and too little on the broader problems that
constrained BTMC's ability to implement the project and operate commercially.
The most important lesson (para. 8.3) learnt from the project is that inter-
ventions in improving public sector performance have a high risk of failure
unless actions have already been taken to ensure that:  (a) a satisfactory
framework of autonomylaccountability exists through elimination of excessive
government controls; (b) enterprises are not used as vehicles of patronage;
(c) the labor unions are not politicized; and (d) wage awards are based upon
actual productivity improvement.



P_ROJECT COMLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
TEXTILE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1205-BD)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity
Name         X Textile Industry Rehakilitation Project
Credit No.   : 1205-BD
RVP Unit     : Asia Region
Country      s Bangladesh
Sector       : Industry
Subsector    : Textile
2. Background
2.1      At the time of project preparatiou in 1981/82, the textile subsector
accounted for about 30% of national manufacturing value added, employed over
one million people, and suipplied about 85S of the country's total cloth con-
sumption.   The entire modern spinning and veaving sector,1 comprising 60
cotton and specialized fabric mills, was operated by the Government-
controlled Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation (BTMC). Private production
was confined to weaving (mainly handloom) and, to a lesser extent, readymade
garments.   The handloom sector provided around 90% of total textile
employment.
2.2      Because of age and inadequate maintenance subsequent to nationaliza-
tion in 1972, machinery in the BTMC mills was in poor condition. A substan-
tial program for balancing, modernization and rehabilitation (BMR) was
required simply to maintain the existing production levels.   BTMC also
required significant improvements in management for its mills to be
efficient.
2.3      In 1975, IDA undertook a detailed survey of the textile industry.
The survey confirmed the significant physical and financial deterioration of
BTMC mills and proposed measures to improve the efficiency of the industry.
S/ finning converts fibre into yarn.  The production process comprises, Blow
Room Section (opening and cleaning of raw cotton), Carding and Drawing
Section (straightening/parallelization of fibre), and Ring Frame Section
(spinning of yarn).   The ring frames contain the spindles.   Weaving
converts yarn into unfinished (grey) cloth.   The production process
comprises, Pre-Weaving Section (preparing of yarn for loom) and Loom
Section (weaving of fabric).   Finished cloth is produced after dyeing
or/and printing and calendaring of grey cloth.



- 2 -
Under the Sixth, Seventh and Eighth Import Program Credits, action was taken
between 1975-80 to improve maintenance, increase availability of spares,
strengthen management, improve finances and give limited pricing autonomy to
BTMC. In 1979-80, a major technical assistance program was carried out by
UNDP/UNIDO tot  (a) prepare a detailed eight-year BMR program for 50 BTMC
mills, of which the first four years formed the basis for this project (the
latter phase was to be im'lemented under a follow-on project, (Table 1));
(b) develop a staffing plan based upon regional industry norms; and (c) iden-
tify areas for productivity improvement and waste reduction.
2.4      Link with Sector and Macro Policy Obiectives.  In its Second Five
Year Plan (SFYP), 1980-85, the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) envisaged sub-
stantial improvements in the textile subsector's capital-output ratio through
increased utilization of existing production capacity.   Rehabilitation
programs in subsectors such as textiles, where capital stock had deteri-
orated, offered possibilities for such improvements. GOB aimed to increase
yarn supply to the handloom sector,   raise the supply and consumption of
domestic fabric, and substitute for imports on a competitive basis.
Rehabilitat'.on and expansion in textiles was also meant to increase employ-
ment and improve income distribution in Bangladesh.
3. Proiect Objectives ani Des12ription
3.1      Objectives.  The main objectives of the project were to: (a) improve
the productivity, quantity and quality of the output of selected BTHC mills;
(b) upgrade the miangerial, administrative and technical skills of BTHC
staff; (c) improve BTMC's financial structure2 and increase its autonomy in
pricing and yarn distribution; and (d) improve the Ministry of Textiles'
(MOT) planning capabilities.
3.2      Proiect Description.   The project was designed to provide funding
for GOB/BTHC to rehabilitate selected BTMC mills, support BTMC's institution
building efforts and carry out policy improvements by strengthening MOT's
policy development capacity.   The project had three components:   (a) an
investment component to fund, during PY82-85, the rehabilitation of 15 mills
(Table 2) through BMR of spinning, weaving and finishing machinery, and
upgrading the quality control in all BTMC mills through providing related
equipment; (b) a technical assistance component to fund consultancy
assistance for strengthening MOT's Planning Cell and for institutional
building of BTMC by improving its organizational structure, upgrading its
management system including marketing, production planning, financial manage-
ment and quality control; and (c) a policy component to reform textile
pricing and distribution policies.
3.3      Project costs were estimated at US$43.9 million, of which IDA was to
finance US$30.0 million.   About 72% of the Credit was allocated for sub-
project equipment, 8Z for quality control equipment, 6% for consulting
services to improve BTMC's management capability and study sectoral issues,
2/ Under the project, GOB was also required to complete BTMC's financial
restructuring program initiated under the Eighth Imports Program Credit.



- 3 -
and 141 vas unallocated. IDA financing was for 1008 of the foreign exchange
costs of about US$25.4 million, and 251 of local coots of about $18.5
million.
4. Proiect Desian and (raanization
4.1      The project design sought primarily to address the need to improve
the productivity and profitability of selected BThC mills by upgrading/reha-
bilitating operating equipment.   Using productivity data from the 1979-80
UNDP/UNIDO review, supplemented by detailed financial analysis of mill opera-
tions and estimated BMR benefits, the 50 BThC cotton textile mills were
ranked in order of economic and financial viability. Fifteen mills which had
the highest financial and economic rates of return were selected for rehabil-
itation. A secondary objective was to secure operating autonomy for BTMC and
its mills by seeking incremental liberalization of tight MOT controls which
constrained efficient management. During project preparatior., GOB indicated
that it was considering denationalizing some mills, initially proposing to
return t: JIvz seized from Bangladeshi owners in 1972; however, it had not
decided upon numbers or timing.
4.2      BTMC was responsible for the mill rehabilitation component of the
project and for introducing changes in pricing and yarn distribution policy
at the mill level. BTMC agreed to set up a Project Implementation Cell (PIC)
to implement the project, while MO0 would set up a Planning Cell (PC) and
hire an industrial Economist to study sectcral issues and help the Ministry
formulate policies. Procurement was to be handled by a Procurement Unit to
be created within PIC. Local purchases would be made, as required, by mill
management.  Rehabilitation task forces were to be established within each
mill to dismantle obsolete equipment and carry out minor BMR tasks, while a
roving BTMC OMR task force would assist with the more difficult elements of
each mill's program.   Implementation of the key elements of each mill's
program w-.* scheduled to maximize the benefits of the program.
4.3      However, given the generally unsatisfactory experience of GOB/BTMC
in implementation of the action programs under the Import Program Credits,
insufficient consideration was given in the project's design to: (a) the
merits of selecting fewer mills with more appropriate BMR; (b) the possi-
bility of using the services of the UNDP/UNIDO Productivity Improvement Team
to supervise implementation; (c) inclusion of technical assistance (TA) for
BTMC procurement services; and (d) the timing of measures concerning mill
autonomy, pricing policies and mill incentives.
5. Proiect Im_lementation
5.1      Overall the project did not meet its objectives and had little
impact on the physical and policy environment of the sector. With its primary
focus on rehabilitation it did not address the broader policy issues
impairing BTMC's ability to operate in an efficient and commercial manner.
Important implementation aspects are discussed below.



- 4 -
5.2      Credit Effectiveness and Proiect Start up.  The Credit was approved
on February 4, 1982 und signed on February 10, 1982. (Table 3). However, it
did not become effective until October 27, 1982 due to delays in approval of
Project Proforma by the Government, which was a condition of effectiveness.
5.3      Proiect Scope.   The fifteen mills to be rehabilitated under the
project had been agreed with GOB/BTMC during project preparation (para. 4.1).
However, through denationalization GOB removed nine of these units from the
project imamdiately after Credit effectiveness. Although IDA agreed to sub-
stitute preidentified eligible mills (Table 2), it took about two years for
BTMC to get GOB approval for the changes, by  .nich time it was too late t.
include them in the project without a full reappraisal of BMR viability and a
significant extension to the project closing date.   As a result, the
project's scope was effectively reduced from fifteen mills to six mills. The
nine mills selected for substitution were eventually included in the Second
Textile Rehabilitation Project -- Cr.1477-BD/SF-022-BD -- which was appraised
in April 1984 and became effective in June 1985.
5.4      Procurement.  Notwithstanding the existence of a sizable Procurement
Department within BTMC, it took up to four years to prepare draft bid docu-
ments and award contrac:s, resulting in substantial implementation delays.
This delay w.s compounded by frequent exchanges between BTMC and IDA on
proposed amendments to procurement documents which geared procurement to
proprietary lines of equipment.  Pro-urement was also delayed by inadequate
staffing, inconsistent bid documents, poor bid evaluations, and protracted
BTMC Board and MOT approval of awards.
5.5      Implementation Schedule.  The project was originally scheduled to be
completed by June 30, 1985.   However, by that date none of the project's
components had been completed. The main reasons for this were:
(a) the changes in the project scope and delayed Planning
Commission approval of substitute mills (para. 5.3);
(b) the frequent changes of management personnel in BTMC and in the
project mi19s;
(c) the size of the BMR program, which taxed BTMC's implementation
capacity;
(d) slow procurement and the changes in the method of procurement
from a mill-by-mill basis to a product basis to reduce procure-
ment costs by bulking machinery orders. This procurement method
changed the sequence of mill rehabilitation.
5.6      Proiect Costs.  Actual costs of US$11.7 million (Table 4) were about
27Z of the original appraisal estimates of US$43.9 million and were
substantially lower than the appraisal estimates due to:  (a) the reduction
in the project scope from fifteen to six mills; and (b) the incomplete BMR of
three mills (to complete the BMR, IDA agreed to finance the remaining sub-
project costs of US$2.95 million under the subsequent Cr.1477-BD).



- 5 -
5.7      Disbursement.  At appraisal, the Credit was projected to be fully
disbursed by the end of FY84, whereas the first disbursement was not made
until early in FY85 and the last disbursement in FY88 (Table 5).  Of the
total Credit of JS$30.0 million, only US$7.7 million (25.81) was disbursed
and the balance of US$22.3 million was cancelled (Tables 3A and 3B).
5.8      Closing Date.  To accommodate the delays in project implementation,
the original closing date of December 31, 1985, was extended by one year.
GOB requested a further extension but this was not given because of the
continued poor implementation performance under the project (and for BTHC as
a whole) and GOB's reluctance to implement the actions required by IDA as
conditions for extension, including inter alia granting autonomy to enter-
prise managers to run their mills as commercial enterprises.
5.9      Risk Identification.  The main project risks identified at appraisal
were: (a) ran-achievement of production and sales targets; (b) an unrealis-
tically ambitious expansion plan for textiles under the Second Five Year Plan
(1980-85); (c) lack of trained textile managers; and (d) negative working
capital and equity affecting the liquidity of the mills. The project design
accommodated these risks by:  (a) studying the textile sector with the help
of a UNIDO/UNDP productivity team to assess production levels and sales
targets; (b) providing technical assistance to improve BTMC's management
capability and reduce costs of production; and (c) requiring significant
equity contribution to ensure adequate liquidity.   However, greater con-
sideration should have been given to: (a) BTMC's weak and untested implemen-
tation capacity in managing multi-mill, multi-product procurement; and
(b) the considerable political and trade union pressure on BTHC in the
running of the mills, which thwarted the sequential mill-by-mill BMR imple-
mentation.
6. Project Results
6.1      Overall, the project objectives of improving operating efficiency,
strengthening BTMC management capability, creating sectoral planning
capability in MOT and improving the yarn pricing and distribution system were
not met.  However, the project did arrest the deterioration of the project
mills and improved certain operational and financial aspects of these mills.
These improvements, however, were significantly less than the project targets
(Table 6), even for the individual mills, and did not result in establishing
commercially viable mills.
6.2      Physical Results.  Of the six project mills, one was comprehensively
rehabilitated using Government of India funds as well as the IDA Credit while
BMR was completed in two others. For the remaining three, about 802 of the
rehabilitation work was completed before the Credit closed;3 however, the
modernization of ring frames, the key subprocess which determines yarn
output, was incomplete negating the benefits gained from BMR in other areas
3/ Although IDA agreed to finance the balance of the BMR under Cr. 1477-BD,
this was not to be done because of continued unsatisfactory implementation
under that project.



- 6 -
of the mills. Noted below is the comparison of actual vs estimated improve-
ments in spinning and weaving and a comparative analysis of project mills,
amongst themselves, and with those BTMC mills which did not have a BMR
program.
6.3      In S2inning, it was envisaged that through BMR, the spindle capacity
in the 15 mills would increase by 52,500 spindles.  The actual increase in
capacity in the six project mills was 1000 spindles or . of overall target;
however had the BMR been completed for the remaining three mills, (para. 6.2)
spindle capacity would have increased by about 16,000 or 32% of the overall
target.   Capacity utilization declined from 841 prior to BMR to 801 at
present,4 as a result of raw material shortage, power failure, absenteeism
and machinery breakdown (Table 7).  The attained capacity utilization was
also much lower than the appraisal target of 95%. While spindle productivity
and yarn production for the six mills increased after BMR, the increase fell
far short of anticipated improvements.  Actual increase in spindle produc-
tivity was only 8% whereas it was expected to increase by 52%. Because of
inability to reach the target productivity, capacity utilization and spindle
capacity, yarn production increased by only 6% in comparison to a targeted
increase of 91%. About 50%, 27% and 23% of the shortfall in yarn production
was due to shortfall in productivity, lower capacity utilization and reducv4
number of spindles, respectively.
6.4       In Weaving,  the delays in procuring spares resulted in the
cannibalization of about 51 of the looms in the six project mills. In these
mills, the number of looms decreased from 1,890 in 1981 to 1,795 in 1989
(Table 4).   Capacity utilization, productivity and output of the weaving
section was also significantly lower than the SAR targets (Table 7).  The
project mills are presently operating at a capacity utilization of about 80%,
as against a utilization target of 96%; however utilization was higher than
pre-BsR levels of 77%. This increase in capacity utilization was mainly due
to: (a) the balancing of spinning facilities; (b) modernization and replace-
ment of some preparatory weaving machinery; and (c) repair of some looms.
Loom productivity increased by 6.2? compared to a targeted increase of 15%.
Because of decline in looms and lower than anticipated increase in capacity
utilization and productivity, weaving production increased by only 3.21
compared to targeted increase of 85%. About 45%, 30% and 25% of the short-
fall in production were on account of shortfalls in capacity utilization,
number of operating looms and pro.'uctivity respectively.   Two noteworthy
achievemets were reduction in wastage by 221 and improvements in quality of
fabric. As a result of balancing of the spinning section the quality of yarn
improved which resulted in enhancing fabric qual'ty.
6.5      The Intra-Mill comparison (Table 8) of the six project mills gives
confusing results. The mills with incomplete BMR have a higher spinning
capacity utilization and production and greater reduction in wastage, than
the mills with completed BMR, although the latter mills achieved larger
productivity gains. In weaving, the incomplete BMR mills also performed
A/ Post-BMR (or Present) results are the average operating results achieved
during the two year period FY88-89.



better than the completed project mills. This suggests that performance of
project mills did not depend on whether or not BMR has been completed, but
that other factors contributed more to performance than the physical condi-
tion of machinery. These included:   (a) quality and efficiency of mill
management and its autonomy to operate the mill on a commercial basis;
(b) continuity of length of service of the Chief Executive of a mill and his
ability to deal with higher management; (c) appropriate production planning
(to produce different yarn counts and types of fabric) based on market
demand; (d) availability and quality of raw cotton; (e) skill of operatives;
(f) type of maintenance; and (g) low absenteeism and good labor relations.
6.6      The Inter-mill Comiparison (Table 8) shows that the operational
performance of the project mills was generally better than BTMC's other non-
BMR mills.   In spinning, the operating performance of the project mills
exceeded that of non-BMR mills as follows: capacity utilization was 51
higher; production was 21% higher; productivity was 92 higher; while wastage
decreased by 22% or more. Except for some increase in capacity utilization
(about 7Z), the weaving performance of the project mills was not much better
than that of non-BMR mills. However, the spinning BMR improved the perfor-
mance and output quality of weaving and finishing sections. It is difficult
to conclude that the difference in performance between the two sets of mills
was solely the result of BMR. While BMR would certainly have made a positive
contribution, other non-quantifiable factors (para. 6.5) were equally, or
more, important.
6.7      Financial Performance.  Financial performance has beer. analyzed in
the following manner:  (a) financial performance of project mills and their
comparison with non-project mills; (b) overall financial performance of BTMC;
(c) impact of financial restructuring; and (d) financial rates of return of
the project mills.
6.8      The Prolect Mills were unprofitable before BMR and have continued to
lose money after BMR (Table 9). In FY89, only one mill had an operating
profit and four mills have had losses in five or more years during FY82-89.
While there have been improvements in certain key financial ratios (sales to
asset ratio, cost of sales to sales ratio) after BMR, and losses have also
declined, overall the improvements were not enough to make these mills
profitable on a sustainable basis. Moreover the reduction in losses was
largely a result of significant and un-4sual reduction in raw cotton prices in
FY89.   The three key determinants of profits are raw material, labor and
other direct conversion (utilities, maintenance and depreciation) costs.
Analysis of performance over the last decade suggests that mills turn
profitable only when these three costs together are less than 90%. As high-
lighted below, a combination of factors makes it unlikely that, in future,
the mills can attain this breakeven point:
(a) labor costs during FY88-89 were about 31% (of sales), or about
4% higher than the pre-project level.   At appraisal, labor
costs were projected to decline through retrenchment and wage



freezes to 10X (of sales).  However continued excess employ-
ment, and   unwarranted increases in public sector wages in
recent years, makes it unlikely that labor costs will decline
significantly in future;
(b) other conversion costs were projected to decline from 19% of
sales to 7% after BMR. During FY88-89 these costs were about
16Z; the significant reduction anticipated at appraisal did not
take place due to inadequate improvements in productivity and
capacity utilization; and
(c) raw material costs have averaged about 56% (of sales) during
FY79-89. With labor and conversion cost of around 47% (of
sales), the raw material costs must be less than 43% (of sales)
for mills to be profitable. However, in 7 out of the last 10
years, the raw material costs to sales ratio has been over 55%
and it is highly unlikely that a ratio of 43% can be achieved
on a sustained basis.
Thus, unless there is a significant labor rationalization, substantial
increases in productivity and product quality and a quantum increase in
managerial autonomy (to buy raw material, have free sales and adjust product
prices according to market demand), it is unlikely that BTMC or the
individual mills will emerge as profitabla entities on a sustained basis. As
in the past, project mills may show profits in those unusual years when raw
material costs are less than 43% (of sales).
6.9      An inter-mill comparison of key financial ratios (Table 9) gives a
picture of mixed and confusing performance with "incomplete" BMR mills, sur-
prisingly, showing a better financial performance than completed BMR mills.
This suggest that the relationship between financial performance and BMPr is
at best tenuous and that other factors (para. 6.5) are equally important.
While the intra-mill comparison (Table 9) suggests that the project mills
have better performance than non-BMR mills, this improved performance cannot
be fully attributed to the BMR program.
6.10     Review of the Overall Financial Performance of BTMC (Table 10)
indicates that only one mill has consistently made profits in the last eight
years (FY82-89), while 22 mills have had losses in five or more years
(Table 10).   As in the case of the project mills, most BTMC mills made
profits those years when the three key cost items (para. 6.8) added to less
than 90% of sales. As discussed above (para. 6.8) it is highly unlikely that
this breakeven cost to sales ratio would be achieved in future except when
raw material price are less than 43% of sales. Thus most BTMC mills will
continue to operate unprofitably.
6.11     The only activity implemented as planned was the Financial Restruc-
turin_ Protram (para. 3.1), but it did not improve the financial viability of
BTMC. By June 30, 1986, GOB provided Tk 1.6 billion against the target of Tk
1.2 billion through fresh equity infusions and conversions of loan to equity
(Table 11) to improve the financial position and capital structure of the



- 9 -
BTMC mills.   Despite the financial restructuring program,  continuing
operating losses of BTHC mills contributed to the further worsening of BTHC's
financia'. performance, leading to their failure to meet the 60:40 debt/equity
ratio by FY86 as projected.
6.12     The ex-post Financial Rates of Return have not been estimated
because the project mills continue to show losses. While for some project
mills, there has been a reduction in net losses (para. 6.8) it is difficult
to conclude that much of this reduction in losses was directly a result of
the BMR ,rogram.  Moreover, the reduction in losses is unlikely to be sus-
tained on a permanent basis in future. It is likely, however, that the BMR
arrested further deterioration in some areas and reduced downtime due to
machinery b.:eakdown.   Also, as mentioned in para. 6.4, BMR has reduced
wastage and improved quality of the fabric.
6.13     Institution Building.  About 96% of the budgeted TA manmonths were
utilized, but employment of management and technical consultants in BTHC and
the Industrial Economist in MOT was delayed by almost three years.   As a
result, the final reports of the BTMC consultants were submitted seven months
after the Credit's Closing Date and the recommendations were not implemented
(Table 12).
6.14     International Comyetitiveners.  The project was intended to assist
BTHC in meeting GOB's sector objectives, which included increasing import
substitution through competitive price and quality of domestic textiles
(para. 2.4).  Although ex-factory wholesale prices of BTMC yarn are now in
line with CIF prices of imported yarn, imported yarn sells at a premium
because of its much better quality. While, import restrictions restrain yarn
imports to about 10 to 15% of the domestic consumption, this level, however,
provides competition to discourage full cost-plus pricing by BTHC and other
local producers. Given the current cost structure of BTMC products and its
inefficient operations, BTMC mills are unlikely to be internationally com-
petitive without fundamental changes in BTMC's operations.
6.15     Yarn Distribution and Pricing Policy Reforms.  While some changes
were made in the yarn distribution system, it is still not based on sound
commercial grounds and is used as a source of patronage.   GOB reluctantly
provided BTMC and the mills with partial autonomy to adjust yarn prices
according to market conditions; however, the impact of this change was
marginal because the autonomy was limited and mill management did not fully
exercise the autonomy available to them.
7. Proiect Sustainability
7.1      Because of continued poor performance and lack of sustained effort
and commitment of GOB/BTMC to policy reform there is no assurance that the
project mills can become financially sound and commercially viable entities
on a sustained basis.   When the raw material costs to sales ratio is
abnormally low, project mills may be marginally profitable, although in
normal years they are likely to incur losses and continue to be a significant



- 10 -
drain on the budget. However, the timely procurement of raw cotton and a yarn
distribution system free from political patronage (para. 6.15) could signifi-
cantly improve BTMC's overall financial performance.
8. IDA'S Performance
8.1      During the 51 months between effectiveness and closing of the
Credit, IDA supervised the project nine times (Table 13).   However, the
effectiveness of project supervision was significantly reduced bys
(a) inadequate technical staffing: Five out of nine missions did
not include technical staff. On the other four missions, tech-
nical staff only participated for part of the supervision;
(b) IDA's reluctance to use the legal remedies available to ensure
that GOB complied with key covenants and implemented remedial
measures suggested by supervision missions.   Two noteworthy
examples are:  (i) standard bid documents, agreed between IDA
and the BTMC, for procurement of machinery and equipment were
changed without IDA approval; and (ii) BTMC did not set up a
Procurement Unit (PU) with a Procurement Specialist within PIC.
Failure to set up a PU, resulted in procurement through BTMC
Central Purchase and Sales Directorate, which delayed procure-
ment significantly.   In both instances, IDA should have
exercised its legal right and stopped disbursement, which might
have had the effect of ultimately speeding up procurement; and
(c) undue reliance on the detailed UNDP/UNIDO technical appraisals.
During tha supervision missions, the technical design and mill
cost structures should have been updated and monitored more
closely, although this would have required additional super-
vision resources.
9. Borrower's Performance
9.1      BTMC's performance was mixed.   During project preparation and
appraisal it was good, with BTMC cooperating effectively in providing tech-
nical and financial information. GOB/BTMC's performance was unsatisfactory
in re8ards to compliance with covenants (Table 14). Thus key covenants on
institution building, policy changes and financial aspects were largely not
complied with.   During project implementation the Borrower made organiza-
tional changes recommended in the project; the PIC in BTMC and the PC at the
Ministry of Textiles were established in a timely manner. However, due to
shortage of adequate and trained staffs, these Cells did not perform as
expected and their capabilities did not develop sufficiently to implement the
project.   GOB's reluctance to use IDA funding for TA resulted in delaying
consultant hiring by almost three years, and there is little evidence that
either BTMC or the Ministry made serious efforts to implement the TA results.
This suggests that the Borrower was more interested in the project's hard-
ware, while the importance of the institutional strengthening efforts was not
appreciated.



- 11 -
10. Project RelationshiD
10.1    The relationships between IDA and GOB/BTMC were cordial during
project preparation and for most of the implementation stage. This relation-
ship deteriorated over the last few months before the closing of the Credit,
when IDA indicated to GOB/BTMC that it vould terminate the Credit unless
certain key reforms, such as greater managerial autonomy, were undertaken.
GOB/BTMC felt that IDA was unreasonable and had imposed new conditions which
were difficult for BTMC to meet given the issues involved and the remaining
time available.
11. Consultina Services
11.1    Consultants studied the marketing, production planning and financial
issues and management of BTHC and performed their responsibilities satisfac-
torily. However, the local industrial economist engaged as a consultant in
the MOT did not adhere to his TORs and did not produce any reports.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1    Both IDA and BTMC's Project documents were adequate for project
implementation. While the covenants in the Project Agreement (PA) and the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were adequate for the implementation of
the project's hardware components, they should have been more specific in
areas of actions and timing for addressing the broader project objective of
making BTMC a competitive and viable enterprise.  More specific covenants
addressing the issues of managerial autonomy and accountability would have
focused early attention on these important issues. However, while covenants
are important, it is the Borrower's commitment to implement which is much
more important; unfortunately the latter was lacking.
13. Lessons From The Project
13.1     Implementation of this project and its successor, the Second Textile
Industry Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1477-BD), highlighted a number of
lessons.
13.2     Improving Performance of Public Enterprises.    A very important
lesson from this project (and possibly other IDA projects focusing on public
enterprises reform/restructuring in Bangladesh, including the on-going Second
Textile Project) is that machinery upgrading and financial/technical restruc-
turing of public sector firms is not likely to be successful unless there is
a strong commitment at the political and senior bureaucratic levels to
improving the performance of public sector enterprises throughs
(a) reduction in excessive and misdirected controls and interven-
tions by Government;
(b) minimizing the use of enterprises as vehicles for patronage;



- 12 -
(c) provision of full autonomy to managers, concomitantly with
establishment of effective management accountability system and
reward/penalty-based compensation package for managers and
labor;
(d) reduction in politicization of labor unions and vage awards,
and excess labor;
(e) establishment of a competitive environment; and
(f) strengthening of management.
13.3     Before embarking on a public enterprise restructuring project the
Government's commitment and willingness to implement the measures noted above
must be assessed carefully during project preparation, and firm agreement
reached on the details and timing of the measures. If there are any doubts
about Government's long term commitment to take the necessary actions,
projects should include significant up-front actions rather than studies and
agreements on changes at some future date.  Thus, public enterprise reform
projects would typically require a combination of policy/institutional
measures as well as investments. The alternative of supporting reform through
adjustment or hybrid operations rather than an investment project should be
carefully considered.
13.4     An important related lesson is that any gains from making markets
more competitive (through trade reforms, privatization, etc) are likely to be
negated by losses elsewhere, unless the public enterprises operating in these
markets, are able to function in a fully commercial manner. If this does not
happen (as in the case of BTMC), the performance of public enterprises will
deterioratvi, as markets become more competitive, and the enterprises would
become a larger drain on the budget and the banking system.
13.5     Profiect Desipn.  In retrospect, it is evident that the BMR program
was overly ambitious relative to BTMC's weak managerial capabilities, lack of
adequate authority and inexperience in implementing large BMR projects. In a
situation of untested implementation capability, it would be preferable to
concentrate resources and supervision efforts on a few mills to which good
managers are posted and which are isolated, as far as feasible, from the
public sector operating environment. In this way, successful "Model" public
sector mills might have been established under the project, and this strategy
could have been extended to other public sector mills.
13.6    Another design weakness was the failure to provide for a formal
reformulation of the original project concept to reflect any major physical
changes or to include the BMR of machines which became obsolete during the
proposed five-year implementation period.
13.7     The failure of BTMC to achieve the enJisaged operational and finan-
cial targets, reinforces the need to review very critically the assumptions
supporting the targets, particularly in those instances where the past record
has been consistently unsatisfactory. Thus:



/
- 13 -
(a) The assumptions that spindle productivity would increase by 552
after BMR (based on norms in India, Hong Kong and Thailand) and
that there would be a significant improvement in machinery
capacity (Table 7) were also optimistic.   The target produc-
tivity (3.42 oz/spindle/shift) was much higher than that
achieved (around 3.3 oz) either during the 19609 (when the
mills were relatively new and under private ownership) or
between FY72-81 for new BTMC mills.
(b) In the absence of actual autonomy to change prices and control
wage costs, the financial forecasts for the mills were
optimistic. Assuming retrenchment, pricing freedom and volume
increases, it was projected that sales in PY81 (first year of
forecast and before BMR) would be 1002 higher than FY80 sales
(Table 12). All project mills were projected to be profitable
from FY81 onwards. (In fact, 12 of the 15 mills had incurred
losses of varying amounts in each of the four preceding years.)
A key cost factor (labor) was forecast to decline from 302 of
sales, between FY72-80, to 10% of sales in FY81 and, based upon
planned attrition of labor, was assumed to remain at that
level. These assumptions yielded a rosy financial picture.
13.8     Other lessons. Subsequent events have reinforced the need to:
(a) Ensure that procurement packaging is appropriate to the
specific needs of the project.   Although it was agreed at
negotiations that all of the machinery for each mill would be
procured in a separate packages, the machinery bids were
actually packaged by subprocess across mills. While the sub-
process method was justified to IDA as a cost saving
alternative, it carried the risk that delays in procurement
would result in incomplete BMR.   The experience under the
project -- substantial number of incomplete mills -- clearly
suggest that procurement for each mill should have been
packaged separately.
(b)  Reflect career perceptions in establishing TA policy units
within implementing agencies. The project attempted to build
up capacity within the MOT to analyze policy issues.   The
result was disappointing. The Ministry did not give importance
to policy work, and most career staff did not consider assign-
ment to the policy unit favorably. Thus, unless greater career
incentives and higher importance is placed on this type of
work, efforts in this direction will not have significant
returns.
(c)  Carefully examine the on-lending arrangements.   Under the
project, IDA funds were onlent from GOB directly to BTHC
through administrative agreement.   Unless there are accentu-
ating circumstances, it is not a good idea to lend to public
enterprises directly by government, rather than through the



- 14 -
banking system.  The former has the dravback of diluting the
financial discipline and financial scrutiny that is imposed on
firms when they borrow from banks. Also, unlike banks, govern-
ments generally do not have the capacity to monitor loan
repayments.
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE5
A. Evaluation of the Bank's Performance:
The bank officials and Mission members involved with supervision of
implementation of the TIRP-Phase-I under finance of IDA Cr.1205-BD were found
to be professionally qualified and experienced in their respective field.
The Cr.1205-BD was signed on 10.2.82 which was made effective from 27.10.82.
The project was programmed for implementation in four years but it took eight
months to made the Credit effective after fulfilling certain requirements.
Preparation of appraisal and re-appraisal reports as per different methodolo-
gies suggested by the different missions during initial period of implementa-
tion invited some unnecessary and delaying exercises.  Subsequent delay in
implementation of the project occurred due to denationalization of nine
subprojects from the approved original project and their substitution,
repeated imposition of conditions by the IDA caused unusual delay in imple-
mentation of the project resulting in suspension of the project leaving the
major part of the project incomplete. The TIRP Phase-I Was a project first
of its kind in the textile sector of Bangladesh and the officials of BTMC
involved with implementation of the project were not exposed to the proce-
dures and formalities of the IDA credit earlier.   IDA could have arranged
appropriate training for the officials on the programing and procedures of
implementation of project under IDA Credits.
The Aide-memoires left by the supervision missions at different
times after reviewing and discussions with the concerned officials of BTMC at
different stages of implementation very rarely considered the views offered
by the officials of BTMCIMOT. The IDA missions which reviewed the implemen-
tation of the project from time to time were in most cases very reluctant to
appreciate the problems caused for frequent changes in machinery requirement
over the GOB approved "PP" and always imposed decisions based on their pre
conceived notions. Due to imposition of certain critical pre-conditions by
the March 1986 mission the projects implementation remained suspended for a
long time (up to October 86).  When GOB fulfilled the conditions and BTMC
submitted the evaluated bids for approval, the Bank instead of giving
clearance to the evaluated bids took decision to cancel the credit with
effect from the credit closing date i.e., December 31,1986 without
considering the request of GOB for further extension.   This lead the
remaining project implementation works to total uncertainty.
51 Unedited.



- 15 -
B. Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance
The Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project Phase-I of BTMC was
first of its kind in the sector which was funded by World BankJIDA as a part
of the Bank's rehabilitation programme for war ravaged economy of Bangladesh.
Tne scope and dimension of the project were nevertheless small. Since BT4C
had no previous experience in implementation of BMR projects of similar type
under World Bank/IDA funding involving compliance of a number of complex
formalities and preconditions, BTMC faced certain ambiguities and problems in
implementation of the project at different stages.   The denationalization
process of the GOB from 1982 to 1985 also created a complex situation at the
starting period of implementation. Denationalization of nine mills of BTMC
under the project and substitution of these nine mills by new ones though had
eaten up a considerable period of implementation time, in addition the
procurement process was also delayed due to procedural complexities.   The
BankJIDA took advantage of this situation and imposed some critical precondi-
tions in the advance stage of implementation of the project.
The borrower as well as the implementing agency have realized that
non-adherence to timely implementation of a project may cause disastrous
consequence.
C. Assessment of Effectivenes of the RelationGhiD between the Bank and
the Borrower
The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was cordial and
harmonious at the personal level of officials of both the organizations. But
the Bank as a Donor Agency though offered the Credit with noble objectives
but subsequently found to have critical preconceived notions in giving cog-
nizance to the views and problems of the borrower as well as the implementing
agency.



- 17 -
Pi   Ills   STATISTICAL I_gRH&TION
Table 1
Related Samk Loans
Year of
tia             Protect                     Purpose                AiDroval       Status
1477-BD    Second Textile Industry    To rehabilitate textile           1984       Ongoing
Rehabilitation Project      capacity in public and
private sector.



- 18 -
TI3LW   2
ogiaial Xifii.
A. nR_r IDlemernted Under Project
1.  Ahmed Bawan.i             Partial BMR under the project (incomplute)
2.  Bangladesh                Partial BMR (complete)
3.  Chittaranjan                   n
4.  Dhaka                     Partial BMR (incomplete)
5.  Luxmi Narayan             Comprehensive EMR under the project and
Indian Credit (complete)
6.  Zeenat                    Partial BMR (incomplete)
B. BRR not Implemented
7.  Adharsha                  Denationalized
8.  Af ar                          "
9.  Bogra                          "
10. Dhakeswari 2
11. Gawsia
12. Jaba
13. Kushtia
14. Muslim
15. Mohini
Substitute mills
1.  Amin                       Included in the Second Textile Industry
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1477-BD)
2.  Bengal
3.  Chisty
4.  Dost
5.  Kokil
6.  Meghna
7.  Satrang
8.  Shariin
9.  Tangail



- 19 -
Tabe 3
Ptt  -  _     _        _       _
l~~ ~~~~~~~ .e~r 1...
LVWCrdit            jOctober 26,1981                       No~vembe  25-
NPrtiati ens                        Toemur 4, 1961
Board Awovat       10ecafger 1s, 1981                      jF.bruaev 0, 198
Lemn/Credf 2        I                                      IFe*bnuV 10, 1982
Sfwoturs
LoMVCredf t          Hey 11, 1982      S.ptebSte  30, 1982 joctgr 27. 1962
Effectfvwnss
LoCridit            1Octer 31, 19851                      1O     w1      19
LomCrtdit          iJ     30, 15lo, 19
___Lo _____________ _______    31,______                     1   e~r   31,   198k
IC~tetIn             I                 I __________  ._________
1 Loan effectiveness was delayed because GOB did not secure
timely approval of Project Proformas from the Planning Commission.
2 Last disbursement date was on July 08, 1987



- 20 -
Table 4
Prol_et Cgots awd liangina
A. Projc-t Costs
Araisal Estimate (113  S                           at    Ms  U)
Locat        Foreign                       Lint           For ff
Iti                       Co#st      Enchua Costs          Tot        cots    Exdwm    Co             Total
Equitpnt a Spars               4.0          18.2            22.22        0."4          6.22             6.86
Civil lIorks                   2.4                           2.4         0.01          0.05              0.06
Quality Zntrol Equipmnt          -          2.5              2.5            -          0.32              0.32
Technicat Assistance           0.3          1.6              1.9         0.02          0.48              0.50
,........  .. . .. .............. .   ...  .........  ....... . ..... ....... ....... . .. ..............................
6.7         22.3             29.0         0.67          7.07             7.74
Phyicat  Cotingengcies         0.1          0.5              0.6
Price Continewcies             0.8          2.6              3.4
.......    ............ ..    ..... ....  .......... ........... ...... .......    ..............  ........... ...
7.6         25.4             33.0         0.67          7.07             7.74
uies & Taxes                   3.7                           3.7          1.09          -                1.09
... .... .............. ......... ...... .............. .......
Total Capital Cost            11.3         25.4             36.r          1.76         7.07             8.83
Incrontal WCapital             7.2            -              7.2         2.90                           2 -  2.90
3__3333    33383333333333      353= 3833   3333338 3#s330m*W_g*_*
Total Costs                   18.5         25.4             43.9 I/       7.76         7.07             11.73/
--------------        ===3333     3338         3      3333           3           33*33            3333
y  Revissd project costs on a six mills basis, is estimated to be about
US 20.2 million. This is based on prorating the expenditure for
eqaipnt and civil works.
Since GoS provided the entire equity contribution, it is ass.umd that
the incrinntal working capital for six mills has been fully provided for.
I/ 0oe not include interet during construction (IOC). which was not inctuded
in wpraisal estimte, 9TNC estimates IOC of about UtS 6.0 million.



- 21 -
TdAq 4
l. Prolet f' ll
PtM                                   as X of
-ANXWL            CSItU tl                  fll Esti
(US * I)                 (US s N)
IDA                    30.0                     7.7         25.8
.'#"INC                 13.9                       .          28.7
......                                   .               ........
Totat                  43.9                    11.73         26.?
.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ausa .            .... 



- 22 -
Table 5
Credit DI2nabwx*t
A. CLmatativs Esti"M    d u  Actut O I
(US S million)
AwisaI Estint.                                  eSW
a* Float Yer        urtYwty      CLmkt.tiW        I         nteuIy         oAstive       Aetml S of
NW  rMO i Dfsusinft  Diswriaants   Estiu.tg                ptndtg          o      1wmini  Estima
FM8    1            0.30           0.30          0.1
2            0.30          0.60           0.2
3            4.95          5.55          18.5
4            8.35          13.90         46.3
FY8S    1           8.30          22.20         74.o
2            4.30          26.50         88.3
3            1.90          28.40         94.7
4            1.60          30.00        100.0
FY85   1                          30.00        100.0
2                          30.00        100.0
3                          30.00        100.0         0.70             0.70             2.3
S                          30.00        100.0          1.13             1.83            6.1
FY86   1                          30.00        100.0          0.23             2.06            6.9
2                          30.00        100.0         0.21              4.27           14.2
3                          30.00        100.0         0.25             4.52            15.1
4                          30.00        100.0         0.01              4.53           15.1
FY87   1                          30.00        100.0         0.99              5.52           18.4
2                          30.00        100.0         0.60              6.13           20.4
3                          30.00        100.0         0.32              6.44           21.S
4                          30.00        100.0         1.24              7.68           25.6
FY88   1                          30.00        100.0         0.06              7.74           25.8
..........                   ..........  .   .......  .   . ........  .    .... ...............  ....... .............
TOTAL                         30.0         100.0          7.74             7.74           2S.8
Oate of finlt Disbursemmnt  Juty 08, 1987.
Cancetted Amount : US $ 22.26 miItion.



- 23 -
Table 5
B. DiNbUruapnt bV Catgoy (tOR Million)
Amount of        Actual           Oiabursements
Catgery go. Daeeription                       Credit           Qisbursmmnt    as Z of Original
Allocated at                      Allocetion
AppraisaL
(1)        Part A if the Proiect:
t-A     Equipment and spare ports   SOR 16,640,000.00  SoQ  5,223,508.00    31.4
1-S     Civil, electrical and             2,175,000.00         150,477.00      6.9
mechanical works
(2)       Part 8 of the Proiect:
2-A     CorJtultants  services for           220,000.00          12,699.00     5.8
Part S of the Project
2-S     Related equipment                     20,000.00               0.00
(3)       Part C of the Pro e.t:
Management system upgrading:
3-A-1   Consultant' services               1,305,000.00         909,067.00     70.0
3-A-11 Related equipment                      85,000.00               0.00
3-0     Ouality control equipment          2,175,000.00        630,682.00      29.0
4       Unallocted                        3,480,000.00
FUND     Special Account                            0.00          15,024.00     (0.2) 1/
Total                        SOR 26,100,000.00  SOQ  6,941,457.00      26.6
Cancellation -
effective: July 8, 1987    S0R 19,158,S43. -                 0.00
...... ........... ....   ...... ... .... ...........
Total disbursed:             SOR  6,941,457,08  SOR 6,941,457.00
..................... ...................
I/     S of the *etu l amount disbursed.



- 24 -
*~~iaIaI                     Lotumi                              S of
4ppia"t                             l                                 s o
nticator I           Ruhabiitation of 1  i tls           6 Ni tis ham ban  rehabilItoted (3  401
milts as propiqd in th eaprWisat
rept ad  for the rinlng 3,
betwn 101-301 U  uslt ar* yet to
be cupltted.
Indicator 2          Inerease  in operatiwal  spindles  Operationt capacity  Inereased by  21
cpaity by 52.500                   about
1000 spindles
indIc tor 3          InerCess in opertial lo    by 600  Operati1al lotn dcrees. by 95    Negtive 1/
I/   kigeving cpcityfor thesix rehabilltatsdmitelshasdecresedfrom 1.9tbouaeidtol.8thowd loor_, be-suseabsw
100 tao becoe obsolete.



Table 7
INDICATORS OF RET ACWEVEN
FSTIMATED AND ACTUAL FOR PROJEC MILLS
BEFORE         ESTUTED             AFrER
BmR            TAIET             O            %M INCP RISE
(FY1981-FY85)     AFTER BMR       (FY1988-FY89)   TARGET         ACTUAL
(1)              (2)              (3)         (4) 2V         (5) 3    _
SPINNING
CAPACITY UTILIZATION(%)        B4% (a)                    95W%()                         13             -4.8,
PRODUCTION (MILLION LOS) 1/             14.26 (a)       27.30              15.06         9196            5.6%
SPINDLE PRODUCTIVITY
(OZJSH4FT/SPINDLE)                      2.25 (a)        3.42 (e)           2.43         52              8.
WASTAGE (%)                              9.05 (a)                           6.61           -           -27.09
WEAVING
CAPACITY UTILIZATION (%)                  77% (a)         96% (e)           809          250A            3.9A
PRODUCTION (AILLION YARDS) 1/            25.5 (a)        47.3 (e)           26.3         856             3.2%
LOOM PRODUCTlVrIy
(YARDSISH&IFITLAM)                      21.6 (a)        24.9 (e)           23.0         159             6.
WASTAGE (%)                               4.4 (J)                            33                        -24.
NOTE: (a): aclual
(a): appraisal estimate
1 Production for six mills ate protated based on actual
produclion of 15 OUR mills in FY81.
21 (Col 2 - Col 1) divided by Col I
31 (Col 3 - Col 1) dievded by Col I



Table 8
OPERTI         BORMNEOFLQ PROJECIUr
COMPAISON AMONG O              _RB*34 .jo Ner   -N_E AND VKI)MPLE rMR MU.S
COMPLETE BMR WILLS
COM...EHENStVE NON-                    TOTAL       )EIE  TOTAL
mm                mmR             WR    OUR
(1 MILL)          (2 MILS)        (3 MILLS)  (     3     8l4   (6 "ML
A. SPINNG
CAPAC1cY UTLIZATION
tnremental Change: 11
- Proect Mills                            -4.4                 -9.1       -7.9        -1.3      -4.8
- Projea Vs Non-Projec Mils 2V             2.3                  5.0       -24         -7.7       5.0
PFODKClION (LUON LS)
lncrmemenalChange: 1if
- Project Mills                            1.5                 -0.8        1.4         06        5.6                                      0
- Project Vs Non-Project flls 2i          23.7                 17.7       20.5        287       20.5
Powy (ZWTISP
ncrmntal Chane: 11
-ProctMings                                9.5                  99        to           5.8       8o
- Project Vs Non-Project Mils 21          19.6                  4.7       a6           6.7        .6
WASTAGE (%)
cremental Change: 11
- Project Mitls                          -16.6                -27.6      -24.5       -29.4     -27.0
- Proect Vs Non-Project MiIs 2           -30.2                -1&9       -225        -21.6     -21.9
11 Incremental change is the increase (or decrease), in the perlomnance measure btween the Post-OMR (FY88-89%
and Pre-OUR (FY81 -85) perios
2J Incremnental Change, as delined above. in the project mils compared to incremental change In non-project mils
during the similar period.



Table 8 (Cotd.)
COMPAS9N  AO                        NON-COMPREHESIVE AND SCOMPLETE OM &ILS
(ALL IN %)
COMPLETE BilR MILLS
COMPREHENSIVE NON-COMPIEHEPNE TOTAL    C               E   TOTAL
0MR               BSR            SPMR       IIMR
(1 MILL)         (2 MLLS)        (3 MILLS)  (3 MILLS)  (6 MILLS)
8.WEAVING
CAPACffY UTNIZATION ()
incrwtai Chme: 11
- Project Mips                            0.0                  2.4       2.4        5.7        3.9
- Poject Vs Non-ProjecwMlUs 2            17.4                 17.4      17.4        4.1       11.3
PRODUCTION (LUON YARDS
lncemntal Change 1.
- Pr*ct MpAs                             -5.9                 16.0       7.7        7.7       &3.
- Proct Vs Non-Proct Mifst 2             -6.8                 139       4.3        -3.1       0.8
IfW OUCIY0W              NIfT0O01
lscemnt" Change I,
- Pr1je Mill                              2.9                18.2       12.3        0.1       6.2
- Project Vs Non-Project Mils 2t         12.0                 3.6        6.6       -3.0        1.
WASTAGE (%)
Ice,mnal Chang-: 1-
- ProjectMill                           -33.6                -16.6     -22.7      -27.1      -25.1
- Projec Vs Non-Project Mipls 2/         31.6                 36S       36.4        36.3      37.3



Tabb 9
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF PROJECT MILLS
A. NO. OF MILLS HAVING OPEFRATING PROFIT BETWEEN FY-
FY82       FY83       FY84       FY85        FY86       FY87       FY88        FY89
No. of Mills                  6          6           6          6          6           6          6          6
No. of Profitable Mills       -          2           5          5           1          1          1          3
No. of Loss Making Mills      6          4           1          1          5           5          5          3
co
B. INTER-MILL COMPARISON AMONG PROJECT MILLS AND
BEiWEEN PROJECT AND NON-PROJECT MILLS
BEFORE BMR FYO I-FY5)                     AFTER OR (FY88-FYO)                    _
TYPE OF MILLS    NO-OF SALES TO COST OF SALE  PROFIT NET OPERATING SALES TO COST OF SALES PROFIT MET OPERATING   % OF
MILLS ASSETS   TO SALES  TO  LES    PROFIT    ASSETS   TO SALES   TO sALES   PROFIT    CHANGE
_______ _  RATIO  RATIO    RATIO  (TK MILLION)  RATIO      RATIO      RATIO  (TKMILLION) AFTER SW
ALL PROJECT MILLS        6     117          006    ng.          -31.73    1.0         0."      o          -26.04      21
COMPLETED PROJECT MILL    3    1.16         0.93    ng          -4 5     2.71          0 76      .        -1211      -I"
a. ON-COMPREHEN8SVE    2      1 II        093    a"            -7.12    2.24         0.660    f.        -13.60      -02
b. COMPREHENSIVE        1     123         0.91    2.84          2.56    4.62         0."    I.I           1.56      -38
INCOMPLETE PROJECT MIL    3    118          10    a"          -21.17    1.67         0.02    Ag.         -12.93       39
NON OMR MILLS             3     080          09 I 9o             -0.14 1    13         0.91 .__i o          460      -488 



l
- 29 -
Tdt. 9 (ccu     lm)
C. Cenmwia        tm I gf Sets)
6 Mlt*,
Pro so              AftNNr
FY79-81      FYl-85        FfY8T7-
tActuat)      (Actul)t       hstua
LaZbour              28             22            31
Other                 19            20            16
---      .    ... .     . ......  .......
TOtAL                47             42            47
D. am NteiaI (AM  CGMto    of i aimt)
TeO       FM9 FM   FM   FMY# FM   F4 FM   fM   flU  FYN   FIW   AoM
RIm Cost
as S "to       59   63   65   72   60   56   66   51   41   46   44               56
- - - - - - - - - - -



- 30 -
tAo 10
lWim AL uL                           U!LII
11. of slits tqm  prOf It&.m
FY82    FYr3    FY84    fY15        86    FY8T    FT8        FY69
no. of mitts                          40       30      33       36       37       38       37       39
fo. of Prf fto bt it ts                2       14      25       I?        3        10        6      17
ft. of La" ting Milts                 28       16       8       19       34        28      31       22
................................................



- 31 -
Ish. It
FINSIAL U        1iUWIhNO
A. Crf  IoNf n u cwmuian of MP LM   to EdtY fgt 3     mll t
(Tk. ntitfsm)
bnat            Dctt  ewaMibatln                      S of
vow                 CwOrlbft1mn cam lb*< CwwlIn  tot  fstweai
FY62                     250.0           135.0                      135.0      54
fr83                     250.0           149.0                      149.0      60
FY84                     240.0          200.0            513.0      713.0    297
"as                      240.0           150.0                       150,0     63
FY86                     200.0           259.0           200.0      49.0    230
,....... _...... ...... ........................_...........
10-ToUt  (P112-1)   1,180.0              893.0           713.0    1,606.0    136
..............................................................................
FY67                                     178.0            *          ?.0
"as                                       92.0                        92.0
P189                                      92.0                        9 02.0
..............................................................................
sub-totl (P187")                         362.0           713         362.0
,,,,, .......(Fl )      1,180.0 _       ,5.0             713       1,966.0 .
ToAL  (fVU2w)          1.18O.0         t,2S5.0           ns3      t,.N.       my
..... .......              ............ ;.....................



- 32 -
T       11
fil AthL  Umial         t
ofwm  mmitt                       to c      m   I
"aU  noU  "AS  "ab  "a   FM  FMb  FM
ass   a....   aaa.S ..  USU                 SUU a..533
0tlquIty Ratio                     21       19      19       20      t9        21       21      10
Curwr     t/Crt~rnt ratio           3        5       2        2       4         6        5       a
o of mills with regtive
Oudty r.do                          7        6       4        4       a        10       15      14
,............................................................. ..............................................
I Mills were supposed to meet, by June 30, 1986, the following
ratios:
(i) Debt/Equity of 60:40
(ii) Current Ratio of 1.5



- 33 -
Table 12
TA 8tMS&
Sb  t                           -i-I                Sn   p 10 f tsn
I *    ProdLction PtaIfing       To review mainterance,                ComPteted in      Partly Inulen  nted
Und Cotrol mw  m         Q uality controt of tSTC               Feb. 1987
mills and set production
standards.
2.     Marketing Advisory        To d tevlop appropriate               March, 1986         at Implemented
Srwvices                  strategies for the sale of
*TMC's proacts
3.    organitationst and         To carry out detailed review of       March, 1987        Partly tmlementod
Moeement                 STMC'5 orgenfzatioen  structure
Succession                ard mtuNpagmnt succession-
poticies
4.     Review of Authority       To review the distribution of         Jurs, 1967         Partty liemented
Distribution ond          mnagerfial  uthority  nd                                 Mn agriot authority partiall)
Incentive System         responsibility within public                             given, but recommendation on
sectcr mitts                                             incentive system was not
implemented
S.     Review of the             To review and recommend               Compteted          Not E temimtod
operation of StMC        measures to Impove operational         April, 196
(Vol.1 & Vol.2)          procedures of the mills
6.     Manogement                To undertake the feasibility          Completed          Substentialty Imalemented
tnforsmtion System       for mechanitation of the NIS           April. 1987
Miwuel                    and Financial System and
procesiures
7.     tnetitutional             To improve mongeriet decision         Completed           ot Implementd
Devetopment of STMC       by computerization.                   Aprit 1987
(Coupiterization)        Stu* was undertaken.
6.     Financiat M gment         To improve fin ncial planning         Completed          Parttlv 100emented
ond Control               and control and management            April, 1989
reporting procedures
9.     Acountins MNmisls         To recommnnd the tpe of               Completed          Partlv amHlamented
accKating principles, control         April. 1969
and prodares to be usd by
sTMC



- 34 -
Tdg* 13
USe of am*  _as
A.  UhfIfu ts
(STAFF )EI
Stage of
Proiset Cvcle               Ptanned              finat
Through Apprisal                                906
Appraisl through
Sourd Aproval                                    15.2
Suervision                                      90.3
.....................................................
...................................................



- 35 -
Tabl. 13
D. XigiLtflLDIat
St_  of d            1u1  of   W in    _idtestt1    Po leeim                TWa. of
PrJ. Cy"*   Yea    Pe"            Field   Represnted        Ruti.          Prtlo
...... ................   .....   .........  ........ ............... ... ...........  ............ .....................................
App- eet      03m                   5 -.A
Suspevisio   11/82       4          2      Finanilt Analysts
Textile Enginer       .A.        - OwmtimlIation of
project mills
* Capitat structuring
behird sdcedale
04/83    4           3      Firwacial AnaIysts               - lpaptmatation behind schedle
Textile Eineer       N.A.        - Poor mint
- Poor firacilt controt
09/83     4          3      Finacial Analysts   N.A.         - Poor perfottce of PIC.
Txtitle Engineer                -' l        lle onttion behind schete
01/84     4          2      Finamisl Analysts    N.A.        - Slow corswion of ADP toan
to ewity
06/84    4           3      Financial, Anlysts    2          -Stow procure_met
Textile Enginer                  -Stow iplemmntat ion
10/84    3           3      Finanmial Anaysts     2          - Appoimnt of comrultants at BTC
- Delay in ssaion of report on
poilution control
03/65     2          3      Finniatl Analysts    2           -Procurement behini scheuto
-Poor finalelet performnce
0/85      I          1      Financial Anatyst     3          - Procurement behind shedu*le
- Poor financial pWeform
03/86     2          2      Finaniatl Antyst      3          - Reluctance to imptemnt reform
Econmist                           pwckg



-36 -
Table 14
Status of Compliance with Covenants
Section/                                                     Deadline for
Covenant                          Subsect                    Compliance                status
DCA Z.01(c) (ii)    Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA)              -                 In Comullance
to be entered into between the                                 Agreement, satisfactory
Borrower, (GOB) and BTHC upon                                  to IDA, was signed
terms and conditions satisfactory                              between GOB and BTHC
to the Asaociation                                             on October 31, 1982.
DCA 3.02(a)        Employ an Industrial Economist and    June 31, 1982 (Org.)   Not in full compliance
and (b)            establish Planning Cell (PC) in         August 31, 1984 (R)    Industrial Economist
NOT to assist it in Policy and                                 vas appointed three
strategy fonmulation of the                                    years late (July 10,
textile sector.                                                1985) and he worked
on NOT*s routine
matters rather than
policy issues. There is
a PC, but it does not
have trained staff to
undertake any
policy studies.
DCA 3.02(c)        Measure to improve the yarn and         July 31, 1982           Not in compliance
cloth distribution system                                      While some changes were
made in the yarn
distribution system, to
this day, it is not
based on sound
commercial grounds, and
is used more as a
source of patronage.
DCA 3.04           The Borrower shall introduce a          June 30, 1985           Not in full compliance
free market pricing system for                                 Partial pricing
the mills                                                      autonomy was given to
enterprise managers on
September 17, 1987.
But even with this
limited autonomy,
managers have to seek
permission for reducing
yarn prices.
DCA 3.05           To attain a debt/equity ratio not       June 30, 1986           In comeliance
PA 4.04(a)         greater than 60:40; a current                                   By FY86, Tk.1.6 million
ratio of at least 1.5:1 and debt                               was given to BTMC, but
servicing ratio of at least 1.2:1;                             it did not improve BTMC
the Borrower (GOB) should provide                              financial structure or
BTMC as cash infusion/equity                                   performance, because
contribution of Tk.1.2 billion                                 of poor operational
by FY86.                                                       performance.  Majority
of the mills did not
meet these ratios.
DCA 3.06           GOB shall ensure that health,           December 31, 1982       Not in full compliance
safety norms and ecological and                                Final review report and
environmental standards are                                    guidelines were
maintained and carry out review                                submitted to IDA in
and prepare new guidelines on these                            February, 1984; IDA
for IDA review.                                                required BTMC to hire s.
Consultant to finalize
a list of pollution
equipment for better
working environment.
It was not implemented
during this project.



- 37 -
section/                                                     Deadline for
Covenant                          Subiect                    Complianee                status
DCA 5.01(b)        GOB vas to issue the order              May 11, 1982            In Compliance
providing winding up/divestment                                Gazette notification
of four chronically unprofitable                               was issued on
mills: Adharsha, Dhakeswari I                                  February 4, 1982
& II and Hohini Textile Mills
PA 2.02(b)         BTHC shall enter into contract          June 30, 1982           In compliance
as referred to in Section
3.01(c)(ii) of DCA with each
mill participating in Part A of
the project
PA 2.03             BTHC shall establish a Project         As soon as              Not in full compliance
Implementation Cell (PIC) with         possible                PIC was created on
Staffing, functions, powers and                                February 2, 1982,
responsibilities satisfactory to                               but with inadequate
the Borrower and Association.                                  staff, power and
responsibilities
PA 2.04             BTHC shall establish within BTHC's   June 30, 1982             Not in Comoaiance
headquarters a Marketing Cell to                               BTHC did not create a
improve marketing system and                                   marketing cell.
procedures.
PA 2.05(c)         Carry out labor rationalization         June 30, 1985           Partly in Conaliance
so as to attain and maintain a                                 In FY89, spindle/
spindle/employer ratio of 25:1                                 employee ratio was 27:1
and loom/employee ratio of                                     and loomlemployee ratio
about 0.8sl                                                    of 0.5:1
PA 2.06(a)         BTHC shall employ consultants to        July 31, 1982(Org.)   Not in full Conuliance
PA 2.06(b)         assist BTHC to improve performance    August 31, 1984 (R)    Consultants were
in the areas of: (i) marketing,                                appointed on April 23,
(ii) production planning and                                   1985. Consultants
control, financial management; and                             produced their
(iii) sectoral planning                                        recommendation in time,
but they were
hardly implemented
PA 4.02            BTHC shall furnish the Association    Within six month          Not in full Comollance
4.03            the audited balance sheet of BTHC,    after the                 Audited reports were
in any case, not later then six        completion of FY        submitted but not
months after the end of each                                   promptly. Audited
audited year.                                                  report for FY89 is
still due
DC&      u    Development Credit Agreement
PA       a    Project Agreement
SAR      a    Staff Appraisal Report



