Document of                       in a%
The World Bank  FtLE  U
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3185-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
TEXTILE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
January 13, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial dutids. Its contents my not otherwise be disclosed withot World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to
a basket of reference currencies, with the Pound Sterling
serving as intervention currency. On December 30, 1981, the
exchange rate was set at Tk 37.9568 buying ;ind Tk 38.0568
selling per Pound Sterling. Depending on e5whange rate
movements between Sterling and the US Dollar, the
Taka/Dollar crossrate is subject to change.  In recent months,
this rate has fluctuated between Tk 18 and Th 20 per US dollar.
Throiighiii t'this report th5 rates shown below have been used:
US$1           -  Tk 19.00
Tk I           -  US$0.0526
Tk I million  - iiS$52,632
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB     -    Asian Development Bank
BTMC    -    Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation
GOB     -    Government of Bangladesh
MOT     -    Ministry of Jute and Textiles
SFYP    --   Strond Five- Year Plan (FY81-F'Y85)
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
(.()B/BTFI('  lih y I - loine 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
TEXTILE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Beneficiary:      The Bangladesh Textile Mills. Corporation (BTMC) and the
mills under its direction and control.
Amount:            SDR 26.1 Million (US$30.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard.
Relending Terms:  US$29.7 million equivalent of the proceeds of the proposed
credit would be made available to BTMC which would in turn
onlend US$25.6 of this amount to fifteen textile mills,
designated for rehabilitation, at an interest rate of not
less than 14% per annum. These sub-loans would be repaid
to the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) over periods not
exceeding 15 years, including a grace period of up to
4 years. The mills would bear the foreign exchange risk.
US$4.1 million of the proposed credit, which would be repaid
to GOB on the same terms, would be used by BTMC for equip-
ment purchases and for technical assistance. The foreign
exchange risk on this portion of the credit would be borne
by BTMC. The remaining portion of the Credit (US$0.3 mil-
lion) would be retained by GOB for technical assistance to
the Ministry of Jute and Textiles (MOT).
Project           The project seeks to increase the efficiency and capacity
Description:     utilization of existing publicly owned textile mills and
to improve quality of their products. It consists of (i)
implementation of sectoral policy adjustments by the Govern-
ment inter alia in pricing, distribution, and employment
policies, (ii) rehabilitation of 15 mills, (iii) equipping
and strengthening seven zonal laboratories for quality
control, and (iv) technical assistance for upgrading of
sectoral planning, marketing, production planning and
financial management. The project should lead to increased
yarn production, greater efficiency and increased profit-
ability of the mills. The technical risks of the project
are minor because of the standard plant design and tech-
nology in operation. The risks arising from shortage of
trained management capacity in the industry should be con-
tained by the technical assistance provided under the project.
Movement toward more market determined prices and other
measures to improve the competitiveness of textile mills'
products would minimize the commercial risks of the project.
The incremental output of yarn and cloth would represent
only a small part of the projected per capita consumption
requirements for the next five years.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated                                                    ----US$ Million-----
Project Costs:                                              Local  Foreign  Total
Rehabilitation                            6.4    18.2       24.6
Quality Control                            -       2.5       2.5
Technical Assistance                      0.3      1.6       1.9
Base Cost                                 6.7    22.3       29.0
Physical Contingencies                  0.1      0.5       0.6
Price Contingencies                     0.8      2.6       3.4
7.6    25.4      33.0
Duties & Taxes                            3.7       -        3.7
Total Capital Cost                       11.3    25.4       36.7
Incremental Working Capital               7.2       -        7.2
Total Financing Requirement            18.5    25.4       43.9
Financing Plan:
IDA                                      4.6    25.4       30.0
GOB                                      6.2       -        6.2
Mills                                    7.7       -        7.7
Total                                18.5    25.4       43.9
Estimated                                                    FY83              FY84
Disbursements:                                             ---US$ Million---
Annual                                  13.9              16.1
Cumulative                              13.9              30.0
Economic Rate
of Return:        27.5%
Staff Appraisal    Bangladesh - Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project,
Report:           December 23, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH FOR A TEXTILE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 26.1 mil-
lion (the equivalent of US$30.0 million), on standard IDA terms, to help
finance a textile industry rehabilitation project. US$29.7 million of the
proceeds of the credit would be made available to the Bangladesh Textile
Mills Corporation (BTMC) which would on-lend US$25.6 million of these funds
to fifteen textile mills designated for rehabilitation on terms not exceeding
15 years, including four years of grace, and with interest at a rate of not
less than 14% p.a. US$4.1 million of the proposed credit, which would have
the same repayment terms, would be used by BTMC for purchases of equipment
and for technical assistance. US$0.3 million would be retained by GOB for
technical assistance to the Ministry of Jute and Textiles (MOT). Each tex-
tile mill would bear the foreign exchange risk on the proceeds of the credit
relent to it. BTMC would bear the exchange risk on the funds it directly
uses.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.         An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Current Economic Situa-
tion and Review of the Second Five-Year Plan" (Report No. 3309-BD, dated
February 23, 1981) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.         The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.
Its economy was disrupted -nd its infrastructure severely damaged by the
struggle for independence.  The country was afflicted by poor harvests and
devastating floods in the early 1970s. Production in both agriculture and
manufacturing fell drastically and only recovered to pre-independence levels
in the mid 1970s. The terms of trade deteriorated. Inflation, declining
real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and political instability
added to the difficulties. In these early years, Bangladesh's policy makers
were by necessity largely preoccupied with matters of relief and rehabili-
Lation and the need to shape a national government out of a provincial
administration. The First Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to be scrapped and
replaced by a scaled-down and ref ocussed three-year "Hardcore Programme"
(FY76-78) in response to the enormity of the country's difficulties.
4.         Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the past decade provided planners the opportunity to turn their
attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of devel-
opment.  Between FY75 and FY80, GDP increased by about 5.5% p.a. despite



- 2 -
several serious setbacks in agricultural production. Output in manufacturing
(as measured by the production index for large and medium-scale industries)
rose by about 7.5% annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking
place outside the jute industry. Although shortfalls in domestic foodgrain
supplies and increases in international petroleum prices led to a deteriora-
tion in the balance of payments in FY80, which was accompanied by some acceler-
ation in domestic inflation rate in FY81, the concluding years of the decade
witnessed a number of encouraging developments and positive policy measures
to attain longer-term development goals. These included a strengthening of
budgetary policies, improvements in agricultural and food distribution poli-
cies and steps to promote a more active role by the private sector in devel-
oping the economy.
5.        The past few years have also brought significant political change.
From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh was governed under martial law. In
elections held in February 1979, 29 political parties and groups contested
300 seats in the new National Assembly. Roughly two-thirds of the seats were
won by the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) headed by President Ziaur
Rahman, who had won the presidential election in June 1978. Thirty additional
seats, reserved for women, were subsequently filled by the BNP. Following the
convening of the new Parliament in March 1979, martial law was lifted and a
new cabinet appointed. In May 1981 President Ziaur Rahman was assassinated.
The Vice-President, Mr. Justice Abdus Sattar, was named Acting President
and subsequently won the presidential elections held on November 15, 1981.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        The economic consolidation during the second half of the past
decade was followed by continued improvements in production in FY81. Favorable
weather and several years of stepped-up provision of agricultural inputs
helped turn the foodgrain supply situation around. Rice production reached
a record 13.7 million tons--an increase of 9% over the disappointing FY80
level--while wheat production continued to expand rapidly, totalling 1.2
million tons. As output in industrial and service sectors also increased
substantially over their FY80 levels, overall GDP growth for the year is
estimated to have been of the order of 7.5%. While the recent increase in
agricultural production can be partly attributed to favorable weather, a
significant part of the increase is due to Government policies in increas-
ing investment in irrigation, improving distribution of inputs especially
through increased private sector involvement, and substantially increasing
the Government foodgrain procurement program.
7.        Notwithstanding these improvements in production, Bangladesh
experienced growing financial difficulties during FY81. Sharply higher
petroleum prices, declining export prices for jute goods and a shortfall
in cofmodity aid availabilities below the Government's expectations affected
the balance of payments. The shortfall in aid receipts, an unanticipated
shortrall iir debt service payments from public enterprises, and substantial
expenditures of food procurements which were necessary in order to maintain
incentive farmgate prices in a record crop year also affected the budget.
A budget deficit of Tk 5 billion, equivalent to about 2 1/2% of GNP at
market prices, emerged in FY81. As a result, credit ceilings for June 1981



- 3 -
established in consultation with the IMF in the context of the EFF arrangement
were exceeded by a substantial margin and the EFF arrangement was temporarily
suspended. An IMF mission visited Bangladesh in November/December 1981 and
a follow-up mission is scheduled for late January 1982, to review the Govern-
ment's plans to restore financial stability and to discuss the possible
resumption of Fund assistance.
The Balance of Payments
8.        Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive
structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid.  Export earn-
ings in FY81 represented a mere 6% of GDP and less than 30% of the import
bill.  Moreover, Bangladesh's exports continue to be dominated by raw jute
and jute goods, which together account for two thirds of total export earn-
ings. A sharp decline in export prices of raw jute and jute goods and of
major non-traditional exports, notably leather and fish products, meant that
exports in value terms stagnated in FY81, although increasing substantially
in volume terms. Imports, however, rose rapidly through FY81 in value terms,
as a result of increased costs of crude petroleum and petroleum products
(although the volume of these imports increased very slowly since the early
1970s they now account for 20% of import payments), and capital goods imports,
which have risen rapidly in recent years and currently account for 26% of
total imports. Bangladesh's terms of trade, mainly as a result of higher
petroleum import prices and the sharp decline in export prices noted earlier,
deteriorated in FY81.
9.        The current account deficit--US$1.45 billion in FY81--has been
considerably smaller than the trade deficit, due mainly to the rapid growth
of workers' remittances from the Middle East; these receipts are now the
second most important source of foreign exchange earnings. The payments
gap was largely covered by aid disbursements estimated at US$1.15 billion,
close to half of merchandise imports. Although project aid disbursements
increased substantially, reflecting in part the country's growing absorptive
capacity, there was, as noted earlier, a crucial shortfall in commodity aid
availabilities and new commitments. Bangladesh also made considerable use
of IMF resources, including initial drawings on a SDR 800 million EFF ar-
rangement which became effective in December 1980 and which was recently
temporarily suspended.
10.       The balance of payments outlook for FY82 remains difficult.  While
a significant increase in export earnings seems unlikely, Bangladesh again
faces the unwelcome prospect of limited commodity aid availabilities. Given
the tight foreign exchange position, imports will have to be reduced below
FY81 levels in real terms with consequent detrimental effects on production,
especially in the manufacturing sector. Gross reserves in October 1981 were
around US$130 million, the equivalent of three weeks imports; there appears
to be little scope for running down reserves further or for substantially
increasing short-term borrowing to tide-over present payment difficulties.
11.       Debt service payments totalled US$94 million in FY80 and US$110
million in FY81. Bangladesh's debt service ratio, about 11.6% in FY80 fol-
lowing some debt relief measures undertaken by various donors, increased



- 4 -
to about 13.2% in FY81. The debt service ratio might exceed 20% by the
mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued and aid is
provided on concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and disbursed
external public debt amounted to just under US$3.5 billion as of December 31,
1980 with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 28.1% of the
total. In FY81, the Bank Group accounted for 3% of the Bangladesh's total
debt service payments; because assistance is now entirely in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
Public Finance
12.        Government finances which had improved considerably in FY79 deter-
iorated in FY80 and FY81, partly as a result of expenditures for investments
in foodgrain stocks, and lower than expected contributions by the major public
sector corporations to the revenue budget. Faced with the choice of cutting
back development outlays or resorting to bank financing well in excess of
established credit ceilings, the Government chose to reduce the development
budget by about 13%. Nevertheless, the final deficit for FY81 substantially
exceeded revised forecasts and necessitated bank borrowing of about Taka 5
billion. The budgetary situation is expected to continue to be tight in FY82.
The severe balance of payments situation will have a substantial impact on
tax revenues while the continued need for large government foodgrain procure-
ments will add to financing requirements. Even with major efforts to mobilize
additional budgetary resources, a reduction in development expenditures of-at
least 15% below budgeted levels will be necessary to contain the budget deficit
to manageable proportions.
13.       The Government has shown a growing awareness of the need to improve
the financial performance of the public sector enterprises and utilities and
to reduce major subsidies. In recent years, GOB has raised foodgrain ration
prices and a number of utility rates and commodity sales prices of public
sector enterprises. In some cases, these price adjustments only kept pace
with inflation, but in others--notably fertilizer and foodgrains--they served
to reduce the unit subsidy in real terms. Petroleum product prices have been
raised by roughly 140% since November 1979. Nevertheless, following the
depreciation of the taka, further adjustments will be required to eliminate
the subsidy on this account.
14.        Foodgrain prices remained stable during FY81, but the cost of
other essentials continued to increase and pushed the general cost-of-living
index up by about 9% for FY81 as a whole. Measured by the implicit GDP
deflator, aggregate inflation--which had spurted from a rate of 6.5% in FY79
to 17.3% in FY80--declined substantially in FY81 to only about 8%. However,
as a result of the rapid expansion in credit in FY81 and the decline in food
production in FY82 inflation has accelerated during the first few months of
FY82 and is now running at an annual rate of about 15%. Tight controls were
placed on credit growth in the early part of FY82 in order to re-establish
financial stability and, as a consequence, the rate of inflation is expected
to slow down.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
15.        The Second Five-Year Plan (issued in draft form in May 1980)
accords high priority to three major goals: (i) achievement of self-
sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production



-5-
targeted to increase to 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the popu-
lation growth rate with a view to bringing down the net reproduction rate to
unity by 1990; and (iii) progress towards mass literacy through free universal
primary education. Priority is also to be given to energy development, partic-
ularly through accelerated exploitation of known reserves of natural gas.
16.       The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is
considerable. Yields and cropping intensities are well below potential levels,
fertilizer app]icti±on rates arc modzst, and surface and groundwater resources
permit a substantial expansion of irrigation. There is large unsatisfied
demand for irrigation. Where irrigation is available, the increase in fertil-
izer use and the shift to high-yielding varieties of rice and from dry season
rice to wheat have been widespread and rapid. The positive developments in
Bangladesh agriculture over the past few years justify some optimism concern-
ing the ability of the country to achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains in
the foreseeable future.
17.       The Government has formulated, with assistance from IDA, a Medium-
Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) which provides an investment portfolio
geared towards the attainment of the SFYP target of 20 million tons of food-
grains. While this target is feasible, its achievement will depend consider-
ably on the allocation of sufficient resources to provide needed inputs to
farmers and to permit the private sector to play an expanded role in the
provision and servicing of modern agricultural implements and inputs. Other
necessary requirements are adequate levels of foreign aid to finance imported
inputs, improved extension services and training, and appropriate producer
incentives.
18.       Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far, especially with regard to birth control efforts which have generally
suffered from poor implementation and have had only limited success. Recently,
however, birth control activities within the Government have been coordinated,
while training programs for field staff have been revised and are now, for the
first time, considered adequate. GOB is now preparing, with bank assistance,
a medium-term implementation plan for the population sector.
19.       The third major objective of the SFYP is the attainment of general
literacy. The planners recognize that it will take longer than five years,
but they have set themselves the ambitious target of introducing universal
primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of primary-school age
by 1985. This program is to be supplemented by a national non-formal mass
education scheme for those already past primary school age. IDA is assist-
ing GOB in preparing a medium-term plan for the education sector.
20.       A Plan aimed at effecting significant departures from past trends
will place severe strains on financial resources and managerial skills. A
major challenge which the Government is now facing is to translate the
objectives of the SFYP into an operational implementation program on an
annual basis. The Government is now revising the draft SFYP, but more work
and considerable discipline will be needed in identifying core programs and



- 6 -
projects and protecting them to the extent possible in a situation of resource
scarcity. A critical factor will also be the extent to which project imple-
mentation capabilities are improved. Although immediate improvements can be
made, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies alone would be ade-
quate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government recognizes that
in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed on the private
sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent, activities such as
education and rural development should be carried out in a decentralized
fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots partici-
pation. 1/
21.       Over the past few years, a series of studies undertaken by IDA,
GOB and other organizations have concluded that existing trade and industrial
policies have distortionary effects on resource allocations within the indus-
trial sector. The Government is now preparing a program for trade and indus-
trial policy reform which is expected to lead to a medium-term program of
actions to be pursued across a broad front, including modifications in the
tariff structure, the pattern of domestic indirect taxation, investment
incentives, export policies and the mechanism for industrial promotion and
planning.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
22.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$148.6 million, made originally to Pakistan
before 1971. In addition, as of October 31, 1981, 54 new credits have been
approved, totalling US$1632.7 million; of these, US$665 million have been
for import credits (ten imports program credits and two fertilizer imports
credits). Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and disburse-
ments as of September 30, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing proj-
ects. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and three
investments (for a shipbuilding company an investment promotion company and
a leather factory) have been approved.
23.       The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(18 of the 43 new projects approved since independence, and two fertilizer
imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the Govern-
ment's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on projects
that provide agricultural inputs, including fertlizer, fertilizer transport,
irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage facilities.
In addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being placed upon
complementary infrastructural projects in sectors which facilitate agricultural
development or which reduce bottlenecks interfering with the economy's overall
performance. In the power sector, for example, IDA plans to emphasize rural
electrification and elimination of shortages of generation capacity or distri-
bution facilities which have been a major impediment to utilization of existing
industrial capacity.
1/   A review of the (draft) Second Five-Year Plan is contained in the
Bank's 1981 economic report, No. 3309-BD, dated February 23, 1981.



- 7 -
24.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the ten imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the economy,
program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA operations
in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two fertilizer
production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project, several DFC
and small-scale industry projects and three IFC loans.
25.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this a high
priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive capacity. IDA has
made two credits available in support of the GOB's population program, which
is now making some progress. Improved education and availability of trained
manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field has emphasized agricul-
tural, technical and vocational training, and primary education.
26.       Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements have, however, lagged behind expectations,
owing largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays
are serious constraints that include a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. IDA and
GOB have given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision in
order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providiTfig assistance
both under specific projects and under technical assistance credits to improve
planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
27.       In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs; and in order to
direct IDA lending to sectors where the percentage of foreign exchange costs
is relatively low, local currency expenditures also are being financed in
certain priority areas such as agriculture and rural development, including
small-scale and cottage industries.
28.       Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on economic policy and
development strategy. It is also designed to enhance the coordination of
external assistance within the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent
activities have concentrated on food policy, irrigation strategy, industrial
investment strategy, and increased domestic resource mobilization and have
been undertaken in the context of the recent detailed review of the Govern-
ment's Second Five-Year Plan.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Structure of the Sector
29.       Although accounting for only 8% of GDP in FY81, the industrial
sector is an important element in the Bangladesh economy. It produces basic
consumer goods, supplies agriculture with key inputs, produces a substantial
part of the country's exports and is a major employer. The sector contributes



- 8 -
about 60% of export earnings and employs about five million people. Large and
medium scale units account for about 70% of the sector's contribution to GDP,
about 50% of the total manufacturing value added and employ about 350,000
people. The balance of GDP contribution, manufacturing value added and employ-
ment is generated by small-scale and cottage industries.
30.       As a result of nationalization of many of the country's industries
following independence, most of the large and medium-scale enterprises are
in the public sector, which now consists of approximately 300 units organized
under the administrative control of seven corporations (jute, textiles, chem-
icals, steel and engineering, food, cement and forestry). These account for
about 85% of the capital assets of the industrial sector, 65% of the value
added in manufacturing, 85% of manufactured exports, and about a quarter of
the industrial labor force. Although the number of industrial activities open
to private investment has been expanded, the public sector corporations con-
tinue to dominate basic industries. To date, denationalization/divestment
of industries in the public sector has been on a minor scale.
31.       The public industrial sector includes the country's largest export-
oriented industry (jute) and import substitution industries (textiles, chemi-
cals, pulp and paper). The jute manufacturing and cotton textile industries
constitute close to half of the industrial capacity in Bangladesh and have
essential links to the agricultural, rural, and cottage industry sectors of
the economy. In FY80 (July 1, 1979 to June 30, 1980), the jute industry
contributed about 30% of the value added in the organized manufacturing sec-
tor and about 50% of total exports, and employed 200,000 workers. The cotton
textile industry is the second largest industry in Bangladesh and plays an
important role in terms of employment and manufacturing value added and it
meets a substantial part of the country's yarn and cloth requirements.
Production and Capacity Utilization
32.       Since FY75 industrial production has improved, although slowly,
as a result of improved availability of raw materials, intermediate goods and
spare parts, and a higher domestic demand for manufacturing products. Private
sector manufacturing outputs grew at a rate of about 8% per annum. However,
industrial output of public enterprises grew at much slower rate of 3.5% per
annum because of the poor performance of sectors such as textiles and pulp
and paper. Many industrial enterprises suffer from low capacity utilization
which in FY80 averaged about 65%. The main factors affecting utilization were:
(i) irregular and insufficient raw materials supply; (ii) equipment breakdown
and poor maintenance; (iii) shortage of trained labor; (iv) frequent power
cuts; (v) inadequate transportation; (vi) lack of spare parts because of
foreign exchange shortage; (vii) insufficient working capital, which prevents
adequate procurement of spares and components and, in some cases, insufficient
raw materials.
33.       The mixed performance of the sector is also the result of a number
of Government policy and institutional weaknesses, including labor policies
inducing over-employment and low labor productivity due to inappropriate
incentive systems. These policy weaknesses are compounded by the weaknesses
in the administrative structures of the sector corporations, including over-
centralization of authority. Thus, low capacity utilization is only a symptom



- 9 -
of many serious problems affecting production efficiency. Under a series of
imports program credits, specific action programs were developed with GOB to
help rectify these problems, particularly in the jute, fertilizer, textile,
and pulp and paper industries. As a result, improvements in the production
efficiency of the jute and fertilizer industries have aided their conversion
into profitable industries. For the textile industry the foundations have
been laid for the next steps toward bringing the industry as a whole to
profitable operation.
GOB's Industrial Strategy
34.       While policy changes adopted by GOB since 1975 have contributed
towards greater participation by the private sector and an increased growth
rate in the manufacturing sector, little progress has been achieved in
rationalizing public industrial investment as an aid to improving efficiency
and capacity utilization. Since FY76, 65% of public industrial investment
has been concentrated in five large import-substitution projects. Some of
these investments, particularly those in the engineering sector, were poorly
conceived and have resulted in a waste of investible resources. The concen-
tration of investment has also meant that many long-needed investments for
rehabilitation (which includes balancing, modernization and replacement) of
existing plants have been unduly postponed. However, some progress has been
made over the past two years in redressing this imbalance, with major rehab-
ilitation programs being implemented in the jute and fertilizer sectors and
programs proposed for the cotton textile and pulp and paper sectors.
35.       Since 1978, GOB, with IDA assistance, has sought to develop a
comprehensive industrial strategy on the basis of the policies and objectives
that have been identified under the various lending and technical assistance
programs for the sector. A first step in this exercise was the formulation
of a comprehensive export development program (EDP), including removal of
supply constraints for non-traditional exports, increasing effectiveness of
export incentives, and improvement of data collection and analysis necessary
to monitor export performance.
36.       In the SFYP, GOB envisages a substantial improvement in capital
output ratios. However, if these improvements are to be achieved, there
is a need to increase the capacity utilization of existing facilities. In
sectors such as textiles, where capital stock has been allowed to deteriorate,
rehabilitation programs offer possibilities of high incremental returns for
relatively low levels of capital expenditures. Against this background, GOB
has allocated 13.6% (US$268.0 million) of SFYP expenditure for rehabilitation
programs. The priority accorded to rehabilitation programs and some mass
consumption items (such as cloth) is appropriate in view of both the country's
needs and comparative advantages.
37.       Although the SFYP recognizes the importance of private investment,
insufficient attention has been paid so far to the provision of a conducive
policy environment for a more vigorous growth of private investment in the
industrial sector. Since October 1980, GOB, with assistance from IDA, has
been in the process of formulating a reform program as a basis for major
corrective actions across a broad front of trade and industrial policies
(paragraph 21 above).



- 10 -
PART IV - THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY
Background
38.       The textile industry in Bangladesh accounts for about 30% of manufac-
tured value added, employs about 1.0 million people and provides about 85% of
the country's total consumption of cloth and finished fabric. While a signifi-
cant contributor to manufacturing value added, there is considerable scope for
improvement. Labor and machine productivity are low in comparison to other
countries in the region and significantly lower than those in the industrial-
ized countries.
39.       The textile industry is dominated by the large public sector mills
which were nationalized in 1972. These mills account for all the country's
spinning capacity, about 10% of the weaving capacity and about 60% of the
finishing capacity. The public sector mills employ about 70,000 workers (or
4% of the organized industrial workforce) in 60 operational mills, contribute
15% of manufacturing value added, produce about 70% of the country's yarn
requirements and about 11% of total cloth requirements. The public sector
mills are under the administrative control of the Bangladesh Textile Mills
Corporation (BTMC) which in turn is responsible to the Ministry of Jute and
Textiles (MOT). The private sector consists of three subsectors: the hand-
loom sector, the power loom sector and the garment manufacturing sector. Of
these subsectors the handloom sector is the largest. As of March 1979, there
were about 437,000 looms in the handloom sector, although about 177,000 were
idle for lack of working capital, spare parts or yarn. The sector provides
direct employment to about 0.9 million people, the majority of which are
family owners (57%), and the balance (42%) employed weavers. The average
loom production per year is about 1,700 yds. or a total of 440.0 million yds.
per annum, which meets about 70% of the country's medium/coarse grade cloth
consumption. In the power loom sector there are about 72,000 semi-automatic
looms, 120 automatic looms and 300 hosiery units. The weaving units are
all small-scale establishments with about 2 to 20 looms per establishment.
Although accurate details are not available, these units account for about
5% of the country's cloth production.
Supply and Demand for Textiles
40.       Availability of cloth in Bangladesh over the past few years has
averaged about 6 yards per capita. This is very low considering the 1972
cloth consumption per capita for South Asia was estimated at 20 yards per
annum. The SFYP has set a target of 12 yards per capita for cloth consump-
tion in FY85. Based on a projected population growth of 2.3% per annum, a
per capita income growth of about 4.5% and an income elasticity for cloth of
about 1, the annual increase in consumption during the SFYP period would be
about 6.8%. This implies a per capita consumption of cloth of about 9.5 yards
by FY85, a 44% increase over current levels of consumption.
41.       GOB's development strategy for the textile industry is based on the
findings of the various studies carried out under past IDA-financed import
program credits. GOB proposes to expand the number of spindles in the sector



- 11 -
by 712,500 with rehabilitation providing 175,000 spindles, mills under con-
struction 112,500 spindles and investment by the private sector in new mills
providing the balance of 425,000. In this expansion, the rehabilitation of
existing units would be given priority, followed by completion of mills
currently under construction. The construction of new spinning mills would
proceed in line with the growth of yarn demand.
IDA and the Textile Industry
42.       IDA has assisted the Bangladesh textile industry in a number of
ways. Under the Import Program Credits about US$210.0 million has been pro-
vided to the industry in foreign exchange for the procurement of raw cotton
and spare parts. This assistance has enabled the industry to improve its
capacity utilization and to implement needed programs of equipment maintenance
and repairs. Additionally, detailed action programs have been developed to
improve the public sector mills under the control of the Bangladesh Textile
Mills Corporation (BTMC). The programs have had mixed success, but overall
have resulted in significant improvements in the operation of BTMC: autonomy
and functional responsibilities have been improved; the range of product lines
has been rationalized and significantly reduced although more work remains to
be done; price increases and cash infusions have limited the erosion of the
Corporation's financial stability; and training centers have been established
and detailed training programs implemented. The private sector has also bene-
fitted from IDA financing through provision of funds through the Bangladesh
Shilpa Bank for specialized textile mills, hosiery units and garment produc-
tion. The proposed project would not only help rehabilitate 15 of the some
60 public sector mills, but would also help in removing constraints that
could prevent the textile sector from capitalizing fully on the comparative
advantage that Bangladesh enjoys vis-a-vis other textile producing countries.
These relate to four crucial areas: (i) GOB's pricing subsidy policy for
yarn and cloth; (ii) GOB's distribution system for textile prQducts; (iii)
GOB's policies toward the private sector; and (iv) the development of a medium-
term strategy for the expansion of the industry.
PART V - THE PROJECT
Background
43.       Following a survey of the cotton textile industry in 1975, it was
found that there was a need to implement short-term measures to improve the
operating efficiency of the public sector mills and to review the long-term
development strategy for the industry. Thus under the Fourth, Fifth and Sixth
Imports Probram Credits short-term actions were taken to improve raw material
and spare parts availability, upgrade maintenance programs and improve employee
capabilities. Under the Fifth and Sixth Imports Program Credits a number of
studies were undertaken to address such critical sectoral issues as (1) the
economic justification for the industry, (ii) long-term demand/supply projec-
tions, (iii) long-term facility requirements, (iv) pricing/subsidy policies,
(v) distribution mechanisms and (vi) the rehabilitation requirements of the
public sector mills.



- 12 -
44.       By 1978 BTMC engineers had completed an assessment of the rehabili-
tation requirements of the public sector mills, and in 1979 GOB/BTMC submitted
a project proposal to IDA for the rehabilitation of 50 mills. Following dis-
cussions with GOB it was concluded that investment in rehabilitation alone
could not bring about the needed improvements to the industry. Subsequently
the project proposal was expanded to include changes in sectoral policies and
GOB's long-term development strategy for the industry based on the findings
of the studies carried out under the Fifth and Sixth Imports Program Credits.
The revised Project proposal was appraised in March 1981. A post appraisal
mission visited Bangladesh in August 1981 to review the policy and procedural
changes developed by GOB. The staff appraisal report (No. 3568-BD, dated
January 4, 1982) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington in November/December 1981, with Mr. S. M.
Al-Husainy, Member, Planning Commission, as leader of the Bangladesh delega-
tion.
Project Objectives
45.       The main objectives of the project are to address:  (i) a number
of sectoral issues, such as pricing, distribution mechanisms and sectoral
planning affecting the future development and efficiency of the industry;
(ii) issues affecting the operation and profitability of the public sector
mills under the control of BTMC; and (iii) the rehabilitation needs of the
public sector mills. Thus the Project would help one of Bangladesh's major
industrial subsectors to increase its competitiveness vis-a-vis imported
yarn and cloth and help assure continued savings of foreign exchange.
Project Description
46.       The proposed credit consists of two components.  The first would
provide funding for technical assistance needed to assist: (i) the Ministry
of Jute and Textiles (MOT) in implementing policy and procedural changes and
establish a planning cell to formulate policies for the industry; and (ii)
BTMC in upgrading its management systems in the areas of marketing,
production planning and financial management. The second component would
finance the rehabilitation needs of the first phase of the FY82-88 rehabili-
tation program for the public sector mills. The first phase included in
this proposal would rehabilitate 15 mills over a 30 month period during
FY82-84; this component would also include quality control equipment for
all mills and for seven zonal quality control centers.
Project Implementation
47.       Responsibility for implementing the project components would be
split between MOT and BTMC. MOT would coordinate the sectoral policy aspects
of the project while BTMC would administer the rehabilitation funds, allocat-
ing them to the individual mills. Individual mills would be responsible, under
the general supervision of BTMC, for the rehabilitation of machinery. For
purposes of this project BTMC would, as a condition of credit effectiveness,
establish a Project Implementation Cell at BTMC headquarters (Section 2.03 of
the draft Project Agreement; Section 5.01(c) of the draft Development Credit



- 13 -
Agreement). The Project Manager, who would head this cell, would be a quali-
fied textile technologist with experience in the industry, including senior
management responsibility. Coordination of project activities will take place
at BTMC headquarters through a steering and coordinating committee of concerned
directors, and at mill level through a project manager who will report to mill
management. The Project Implementation Cell would be supported by technical
assistance from the existing UNDP/UNIDO Productivity Team 1/ on technical
matters and on general planning, execution and monitoring of the project.
Project Costs and Financing
48.       The total financing requirement of the project is estimated at
US$43.9 million (including US$3.7 million in duties and taxes). This estimate
is based on detailed rehabilitation plans for each mill covered by the project
and includes physical contingencies of 2.5% and price contingencies ranging
from 7.5 to 9.0% per annum for imported parts. Details of the costs are given
in the Credit and Project Summary. The total foreign exchange requirements
of the project are estimated at US$25.4 million. The proposed IDA Credit of
US$30.0 million equivalent would finance about 68% of the total project cost
net of taxes and duties, with the balance financed by individual mills (US$7.7
million) from internally generated funds and by GOB (US$6.2 million).
49.       US$29.7 million equivalent of the proposed credit would be made
available to BTMC under a subsidiary loan agreement. Of this amount US$25.6
million would be passed on by BTMC, as agent on behalf of GOB, to the 15
individual mills included in the project in the form of loans repayable to
GOB at interest rates of not less than 14% per annum and maturities of 15
years including a grace period of up to 4 years. BTMC would use US$4.1 mil-
lion for expenditures on quality control laboratories and consultant services.
This would also be repaid to GOB on the same terms and conditions as the
sub-loans to individual mills. The mills and BTMC would be required to bear
the foreign exchange risk on their respective sub-loans. The signing of the
subsidiary loan agreement between GOB and BTMC is a condition of disbursement
for these project components (Paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 1 to the draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement). The balance of US$0.3 million would be retained by
GOB for technical assistance to MOT. The foreign exchange risk on this part
would be borne by the Government.
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       Procurement of equipment, machinery and spares for the rehabilita-
tion component of the project (contracts over US$50,000) will be on the basis
of international competitive bidding, with the standard margin of preference
allowed to local bidders. In view of the rehabilitation nature of the project
exceptions to ICB will be allowed in the case of proprietary items relating
to spares and assemblies for existing equipment. Such items may be procured
through limited international tendering on the basis of at least 3 price
1/   A UNDP financed team established as a condition of the Fifth Imports
Program Credit (676-BD) to assist BTMC in reviewing and upgrading
production methods within the mills. UNIDO is the executing agency.



- 14 -
quotations, in which case a list of such items would be submitted to IDA for
prior approval. Given the small size of individual civil works projects
(maximum contract of Tk 2.5 million or US$0.13 million), civil works would
be contracted on the basis of local competitive bidding, in accordance with
standard GOB/BTMC procedures now in force which are satisfactory to IDA.
Items costing less than US$50,000 per contract may be procured through limited
international tendering on the basis of at least three price quotations. A
percentage of these contracts would be randomly selected for post award review
by IDA. Items costing less than US$20,000 per contract may be procured through
local shopping on the basis of at least three price quotations provided that
the aggregate of the items so procured shall not exceed US$500,000. To allow
for the procurement of critical spare parts identified during rehabilitation
but not on order, provision has been made for procurement from BTMC's or the
mills' own workshops provided that such procurement shall not exceed the
aggregate of US$250,000 and is made in accordance with specified procedures
ensuring cost-efficiency. The cost of such procurement would be reviewed by
IDA to determine that it has been competitive vis-a-vis other sources of
supply.
51.       For equipment and spare parts for rehabilitation and quality control,
IDA would disburse against 100% of the foreign cost, 100% of the local cost
ex-factory and 70% of other local expenditures. For civil works, erection and
installation of equipment and machinery, IDA would disburse against 90% of
total expenditures. For consultants' services, IDA would finance 100% of total
expenditures. Given the ready availability of spare parts and rehabilitation
equipment, and the intention to place bulk orders to cover the requirements of
all mills, the proposed credit is expected to be fully disbursed by the end of
FY84.
Sectoral Policies and Planning
52.       Pricing.  Since 1972 the financial viability of the industry, and
indirectly the level of investment in the powerloom and handloom subsectors
has been significantly affected by GOB's pricing and subsidy policies. Ex-mill
prices of yarn and cloth produced by the public sector mills are set by GOB at
cost or below cost with the aim of providing subsidized cloth to the consumer.
Although prices of public sector products are reviewed periodically (usually
annually), the subsequent adjustments are irregular, and usually partial and
delayed, with the result that many of the public sector units operate at a
loss. Moreover, the consumer subsidy implicit in the controlled prices of
public sector products, particularly yarn prices, does not reach the consumer
since cloth manufactured in the private sector from yarn produced in the
public sector is not subject to control. While price increases are necessary
to improve the profitability of public sector units and provide more incentive
to private entrepreneurs to invest in new spinning mills and weaving facilities,
any arbitrary increase in the domestic price of yarn, over and above the rate
of increase in the cost of imported yarn, would increase the attractiveness of
imported yarn and could lead to an increase in imports. The problems of the
industry can ultimately be solved only through increased productivity and
through significant improvements in the quality of the yarn produced. Finan-
cial and technical assistance provided under the proposed rehabilitation



- 15 -
project will help bring this about. However, competition from proposed private
mills and from imports will be an important element in providing the necessary
stimulus for such a modernization. This competition would be strengthened by
a move from controlled ex-mill prices to free market prices. A gradual move
to this objective over the 3-4 years of the rehabilitation program should help
the industry considerably. As a first stage in implementing this change, GOB
has already introduced free market pricing for 10 new efficient mills produc-
ing high quality yarn. It has also agreed to introduce a market determined
pricing system in accordance with a time schedule acceptable to IDA (Section
3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). It is expected that about
15 mills would come under the free pricing system each year to complete the
process before June 30, 1985.
53.       Yarn Distribution.  With its structure of assigned dealers and
limited product allocations, the country's yarn distribution system does
not provide for a smooth flow of yarn from the public sector spinning mills
to the private sector weaving units in the handloom and powerloom sectors.
There are too many dealers and allotments are too small. Dealers are required
to purchase a certain amount of poor-quality yarn and cloth along with their
purchases of high-quality yarn. This arrangement results in excessive mark-up
on average quality products, thus neutralizing GOB's attempts to subsidize
prices to final consumers. GOB and BTMC plan to adopt appropriate measures,
including the reduction of the number of dealers, the increase of yarn allot-
ments and the sale of slow-moving stocks through independent marketing efforts,
to improve the yarn and cloth distribution system. While the short-term
improvements in yarn distribution should minimize excessive product markups,
GOB recognizes that further changes in the distribution system are needed.
To formulate the required changes GOB would establish a Planning Cell within
the Ministry of Jute and Textiles (MOT) by July 31, 1982 which, among other
policy areas, will study and recommend medium-term strategies for distribution
of yarn and cloth (see paragraph 55 below).
54.       The Role of the Private Sector.  Currently GOB is adopting a policy
of divestment of nationalized mills together with a planned program of exten-
sive private sector investment in new spinning facilities. As of June 30,
1981 GOB has divested seven specialized mills to the private sector and has
now decided to wind up four unprofitable mills with a total capacity of 60,000
spindles. As this is one of the important steps in improving the overall
financial position of BTMC, the issuance of the necessary Government Order
enabling winding up has been made a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Govern-
ment licenses have been issued for construction of new mills in the private
sector with a total capacity of 425,000 spindles (paragraph 41).
55.       Sectoral Planning.  The public sector mills have little discretionary
powers in determining prices, distribution, production levels and employment.
The project is expected to result in greater autonomy for these mills. To
the extent that some of these decisions continue to be taken at the Government
level, these would have to be based on in-depth analysis and appropriate
planning. At present, this is not the case and there is a need to develop
the required policy/planning role within the Ministry of Textiles (MOT) to
(i) liaise closely with and assist the Planning Commission in its overall



- 16 -
planning efforts; (ii) formulate recommendations on policy; and (iii) assist
the public sector mills implement these policies. GOB/MOT recognize that MOT's
capabilities to perform these functions have to be strengthened and propose to
improve MOT's planning capability under the project by establishing a Planning
Cell within MOT (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
BTMC Organization, Management and Finances
56.       Organization.  BTMC has six functional directorates that administer
the operations of the individual mills. At mill level an enterprise board
headed by a BTMC Director or senior functional officer supervises general ope-
rations, with day-to-day operations monitored by a mill management committee.
While these arrangements give the appearance of coordinated control, extended
spans of control and poorly defined functional and line responsibilities weaken
the operation of the organization. To eliminate these shortcomings BTMC would
prepare, not later than December 31, 1982, a program for improving its organi-
zation and management systems which it will implement after consultation with
IDA (Section 2.05(a)(i) and Section 2.05(b) of the draft Project Agreement.)
57.       Quality Control.  While the quality of BTMC's raw materials (i.e.
raw cotton, fibre, etc.) influence significantly its production performance,
lack of technical knowledge by mill personnel, shortages of quality control
staff at mills and the absence of adequate equipment also influence produc-
tion performance. To overcome these weaknesses, BTMC proposes to establish
seven zonal quality control laboratories, upgrade existing facilities and
recruit and train about 200 science graduates to serve as quality controllers.
Financing for the equipment (US$2.5 million) has been provided under the
proposed credit.
58.       Production Control.  Up to 1975 BTMC produced about 100 different
varieties of yarn and cloth which created significant problems in procure-
ment, production planning and marketing. Under the Sixth Imports Program
Credit BTMC undertook to rationalize the number of products produced overall,
and by each mill. While significant progress has been made with the product
range reduced to about 30, many mills are still attempting to produce more
products than their facilities allow. BTMC will reexamine its product range
to identify areas for further rationalization and would employ a production
planning advisor to assist it to prepare and implement a program to improve
its existing production planning and control procedures (Sections 2.05(a)(ii)
and 2.06(a)(ii) of the draft Project Agreement).
59.       Financial Viability of BTMC.  At the end of FY76 the aggregated
balance sheets of BTMC and the mills under its control showed a positive
equity balance of Tk 295 million and a satisfactory working capital position.
By the end of FY81 successive deficits caused by rising costs and controlled
ex-mill prices had converted the equity balance to a negative balance of about
Tk 270 million and the working capital position to a deficit of about Tk 800
million. Currently, 25 of BTMC's 60 operational mills have significant nega-
tive equities and working capital balances, and rely on large working capital
loans from the banking system to remain operational. To compensate BTMC and
the mills for their revenue losses resulting from controlled pricing, GOB
agreed, under the Eighth Imports Program Credit (980-BD), to provide on an



- 17 -
annual basis sufficient infusions of cash and equity to give each mill a
debt/equity ratio of 60:40 by December 31, 1984. While GOB has converted
Tk 334 million (US$17.6 million) of loans into equity and has provided some
cash infusions, those actions have been irregular, delayed and the cash
infusions significantly below the amounts required. A revised phased program
of equity contributions has been prepared based on projected operations for
FY82-FY85. This program would allow each mill to establish and maintain an
adequate working capital balance to meet operating costs and debt servicing
obligations on the basis of a current asset/current liability ratio of at
least 1.5:1, and a debt servicing ratio of at least 1.2:1. Agreement on
these targets and an appropriate schedule of contributions by GOB has been
reached (Section 3.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section
4.04 of the draft Project Agreement); a contribution of Tk 250 million for
FY82 has already been made.
60.       Employment.  As of June 30, 1981 BTMC and the mills had a total
permanent work force of about 70,000. Studies carried out by the UNIDO/UNDP
Productivity Team indicate that on the basis of South Asian Industry norms
applied to BTMC's installed capacity, BTMC and the mills are overstaffed by
about 30%, although this overemployment hides a significant shortage at manage-
ment, supervisory and craftsmen level of about 1,400. To reduce overemployment
in the mills BTMC has placed an embargo upon recruitment of unskilled workers
for mill operations. However, because of social concerns in GOB's labor poli-
cies, BTMC has been unable to reduce the excess other than through attrition
and transfers to new mills in the public and private sectors as they come on
stream. As a result BTMC's production costs are increased by about 10%, making
BTMC's products less competitive. The overemployment also limits mill manage-
ment's ability to offer more attractive incentives to their productive workers
and has therefore contributed in part to low productivity and quality. GOB
and BTMC have accepted the principle of labor rationalization and will imple-
ment a phased program to gradually reduce labor to agreed levels by June 30,
1985 (Section 2.05(c) of the draft Project Agreement).
61.       Training.  Under the Sixth Imports Program Credit (Credit 752-BD),
BTMC initiated an extensive program of training for mill and BTMC staff. A
new mill of 25,000 spindles was designated as a central training mill, and
since FY79 about 3,000 unskilled workers have been graduated as skilled spin-
ning operators. A Textile Training Center for use as a specialized training
centre for textile technologists and supervisory staff is also under construc-
tion. Pending completion of the Training Institute, training activities are
focused on the retraining of technologists in the basic techniques of spinning,
weaving and finishing to fill gaps in the knowledge of these individuals who
have many years of operational experience but little or no formal training.
This program is being carried out, on site, in 16 mills (10 of which are
covered by the proposed rehabilitation project). BTMC's initial training
program is also being revised to reflect the need to train about 1,500 tech-
nologists/technicians by FY85 to meet the demands arising from the proposed
creation of new mills in the public and private sectors. These expanded
objectives, resulting from GOB's plans for the industry, have been made without
proper consideration of their effect on BTMC's organization, and on the promo-
tion prospects of senior officers moved from the mills to staff the training
institute and centers. In the area of organization, training responsibilities



- 18 -
are being fragmented over a number of directorates with resulting difficulties
in developing a coordinated approach to training. Further, no provision has
been made to provide promotion opportunities within the training function or
to develop a suitable salary structure. In order to remedy these deficiencies,
BTMC would prepare and implement a program to improve the organizational struc-
ture of its training function and career planning for the staff of training
institutes and centers (Section 2.05(a)(iii) and Section 2.05(b) of the draft
Project Agreement).
62.       Incentive Systems.  In FY78, BTMC implemented a number of incentive
systems to reduce worker absenteeism and improve productivity. The schemes
had a limited success but suffered from a major failing in that they were
not related to objectives to improve product quality or unit profitability.
An industrial engineer joining the UNDP/UNIDO Productivity Team will assist
BTMC review its incentive systems and introduce appropriate changes to the
existing incentive scheme.
63.       Manpower and Succession Planning.  The steps being taken by BTMC
to address organizational and labor issues are focused on short-term solutions
to the problems that exist, with little thought being given to medium- and
long-term needs arising from planned investment in new mills. The staffing
for these mills, in large part, will come from the BTMC and this would reduce
BTMC's excess workforce. However, BTMC has no formal plans for management
succession; it would therefore face severe problems in identifying and pro-
viding for the training of replacements to fill the resulting vacancies.
BTMC would therefore prepare and implement a program for management succes-
sion (Section 2.05(a)(i) and Section 2.05(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
64.       Marketing.  In spite of a protected environment, a comprehensive
distribution system and a continued shortage of yarn and cloth in the coun-
try, BTMC mills have experienced difficulties in disposing of their inven-
tories (especially at times when the supply of imported yarn/cloth is high).
This situation results from weaknesses in quality, product development and
market demand knowledge, weaknesses which must be removed if the mills are
to compete against the private sector or are to be able to export in the
long term. However, BTMC does not have the appropriate marketing research
and planning capabilities necessary to address these weaknesses. To streng-
then its capabilities in these areas, BTMC would appoint a Marketing Advisor
to assist it in establishing a Marketing Cell to assess (i) consumer needs,
(ii) potential for production diversification and (iii) necessary adjustments
to marketing inventory and production planning (Sections 2.04 and 2.06(a)(i)
of the draft Project Agreement).
65.       Financial Management and Control.  Under the Sixth Imports Program
Credit BTMC implemented a number of system and procedural changes in its
financial management and control systems which resulted in a significant
improvement in the quality of data available for management. A number
of weaknesses, however, still exist in the structure and operation of the
present financial control system, including lack of pre-determined cost data,
budgetary control and consolidation of BTMC and mill results. BTMC would
employ, by December 31, 1982, financial management consultants to prepare
and implement a program to improve BTMC's management information, reporting



- 19 -
and control systems (Sections 2.05(a)(iv) and 2.06(a)(iii) of the draft Proj-
ect Agreement). There is also need to speed up the statutory audits of BTMC
accounts. Accordingly BTMC would furnish to IDA by April 30, 1982 audited
accounts for fiscal year 1980 and by September 30, 1982 for fiscal year 1981
and, thereafter, within six months of the end of BTMC's financial year
(Sections 4.02 and 4.03(ii) of the draft Project Agreement).
66.       Health Safety and Environmental Aspects.  Provisions of GOB's
health and environmental ordinances are not being met by BTMC and the mills,
a fact reflected in high levels of accidents and industrial diseases among
BTMC workers. GOB will carry out a review of health, safety and environ-
mental impact of BTMC's operations and devise new guidelines for implementation
on the basis of the findings and recommendations of this review, taking into
account IDA's comments (Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits
67.       The financial and economic rates of return of the project are esti-
mated at 15.7% and 27.5% respectively; these rates do not, however, reflect
the benefits from increased prices resulting from the introduction of free
market pricing nor the benefits arising from improvements in BTMC's management
systems. Financial projections for each of the 15 mills have been prepared
assuming full production benefits of rehabilitation would flow from the end of
FY84. Improved results, however, would flow sooner as spare parts, components
and the Productivity Team assistance begin to yield improvements in efficiency.
With the improved profitability, aggregated internal cash flows are projected
to improve from about US$4.2 million in FY81 to US$9.2 million in FY86. More
important benefits of the project would come from the proposed policy changes;
these would not only lead to profitablity of the public sector mills and com-
petitiveness of their products but would also create a more conducive environ-
ment for the participation of the private gector in the textile industry.
Project Risks
68.       The project, with assistance from the UNDP/UNIDO Productivity Team,
should face little technical risk. The project is, however, sensitive to the
achievement of production and sales revenue targets. These can be affected by
the possible strains on the industry that might be created as a result of the
ambitious expansion program proposed for the textile industry under the SFYP.
Particular care must be taken to expand and improve the pool of trained tex-
tile managers along with the expansion of the industry, otherwise competent
management may not remain in the rehabilitated mills to exploit fully the
benefits of rehabilitation. This risk is being addressed by technical assist-
ance provided for management improvement, organizational changes and manpower
planning. The project projections and benefits are also sensitive to cost/
price relations. A 10% increase in raw material costs unaccompanied by a
sales price increase would reduce the financial rate of return to only 1.6%,
and the economic rate of return to about 13%. Therefore, it will be necessary
to monitor changes in the cost structure and adjust prices continually to
reflect these. However, it would be important also to ensure that prices
are not increased to such a level that would render local products less compe-
titive, thus forcing increased protective measures. The present negative
working capital and negative equity situation point to liquidity problems



- 20 -
for the mills, which, if unresolved, could lead to shortages of raw material
and operational spares, and an inability to meet production targets. With
the introduction of free market pricing, capital infusions by GOB, and other
measures taken under the project, risks should be contained to an acceptable
level.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and BTMC and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III. Additional conditions of credit effec-
tiveness would be: (a) that the Government Order for the winding up of selected
mills has been issued; and (b) that BTMC has established a Project Implementa-
tion Cell. The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOB and BTMC
would be a condition of disbursement.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
By: Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
January 13, 1982



- 21 -
Annex I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV'RaAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                      -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             144.0                                 MOST RECENT        LW INCOME                  MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      97.3               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC               ASIA 6 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    30.0        50.0       90.0               232.3                    1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         ..         32.0/e    40.8               499.4                     1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 53491.0       68117.0   88934.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  5.1           7.6       10.8               17.3                       40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION UN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       148.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         338.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       371.5        473.0     617.6               153.6                     373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    561.9         702.2     888.6               360.3                    2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.3         46.3      43.5                37.4                      39.8
15-64 YRS.                          52.5         51.0      53.9                59.2                      56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.2          2.7       2.6                 3.5                        3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9          2.4       3.0                 2.1                        2.3
URBAN                               3.6          6.3       6.8                 3.4                        3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      49.2         47.6      43.5                27.7                       29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      22.5         19.9       15.7                10.2                       7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5          3.1        2.8                2.5                        1.9
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        429.5    1143.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       8.9                20.4                      44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          106.0        101.0      88.0               107.1                     123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                    85.0         85.0      91.0                98.6                     112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           43.0         43.0      58.5                56.9                      62.5
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         9.0          9.0       9.0                14.2                      19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      24.9         23.5      18.7                14.6                       4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.6          44.9      48.8                57.7                      64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..       153.0     130.0                89.1                      50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                           45.0      53.0                30.1                      45.9
URBAN                                *-         13.0      15.0                65.8                      68.0
RURAL                                           47.0      55.0                20.1                      34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          6.0       5.0                17.6                      53.4
URBAN                                ..           ..      40.0                71.0                      71.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                 4.8                      42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..       8427.2/c  8775.0              3857.7                    4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      91872.9   56876.6              6411.8                    2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                ..       6610.0/d  4402.0              1132.8                     588.5
UR8AN                                ..           ..     637.6               322.3                     579.6
RURAL                                ..           ..   23754.3              5600.5                    1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.9/e                 5.9
URBAN                                 -          6.1T      6.1
RURAL                                            5.9W      5.9
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                * *
URBAN                                . .
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..
URBAN                                            3... ..O                          ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..



- 22 -
Annex I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
3ANGL4DnIr-S0CIAL INDICATOgS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                    ItUERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV,.RAGES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)a
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                 MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA 6 PACIFIC              ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PHIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0         52.0      72.0                85.9                     99.8
MALE                  66.0        68.0      103.0                94.4                    100.6
FEMALE                26.0        34.0       40.0               64.5                      98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  8.0         19.0      22.0                38.0/..                  53.5
MALE                  14.0        29.0       32.0                34.67a                   58.4
FEMALE                 1.0         8.0       11.0                i8.07a                   48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   1.0           1.0       1.0                 3.8                     21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              ..         49.0      44.0                32.8                     34.2
SECONDARY                            ..        26.0       24.0                19.9                     31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        21.6/f       23.0      26.0                52.8                     86.5
.CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ,.          0.4       0.4                 1.7                     12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
PoPULATION                           *           6.0       6.0                35.3                    174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..       0.4                 3.7                     50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           .,       4.3                14.6                    106.8
CINEHA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        .,                 3.4                      4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19251.6      23611.0   31390.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   15.2         16.6      17.4                29.3                     37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              86.8        85.9       74.0                69.8                     50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.3         3.5       11.0                14.1                     21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.0         34.7      35.3                39.7                     40.2
MALE                                 58.7         55.9      56.5                51.5                     49.8
FEHALE                               11.4         11.9      12.7                23.3                     31.1
ECUNOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3          1.4       1.3                 1.1                      1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3/&        16.7/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.54        42.37ii   38.0/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.97L         7.97ih    8.07.
LOWEST 40 FERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9L&        19.67i
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URbAN                                ..           ..     139.0               134.1                    248.6
RURAL                                ..           ..     111.0               111.6                    193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ,.                  ..                    249.8
RURAL                                ..           ..        ,.                  ..                    234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      86.0                41.7                     21.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      86.0                51.7                     32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-veighted arittletic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimte, betwean 1976 and 1979.
/c   Registered, nor all practicing in the country;  /d Governmnt hospital .stablishuants only;  /e 1973;
/f 1962;  /g 1963-64;  /h  1966-67;  /i  Etiated percent of national inecoe.
may, 1981



-23-
Annex I
Pae3
IAPFINITIONI OPF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Not..:  Although the data are dene  fros souce  general.ly judged the  -ee  authoriatt     ad reliable.  in shoud also he noted that they any non he lonter-
oontonellyoe-perable becaus  of the tech of standerdiced defliniione snd t--opne usad by diffeostcn                . ontrcee ic, -11-ating the dote.  The dots are, none-
thel..se,. usful no dee..ribe orders ofmantd,indicate trends, sod obhre-teiescrti   ajor d                               bfrec e ht...nc.etrte.s.
Thereferenre       . gr9par   IIIthee-amaro..trygro-yofeheeuhbletnc-uotyaed                If)actn   y  grtoyetthere.-h., tigthraoertg %i-..ntheo thrroun-y gr..
of the subject country(enceyn for "lapSed  tuplus Oilu tEpo--re  gru   hr  'fdl   ncm   ih Africa and Kiddie ~ tsrtroohgceofsrne
e tioolusafnhsi.In thereosc  erc   ae  h   vrgs   r   ootnn   eghe    rceei   er  for  ooadt-r-e  ad eh.- orly  Ihe
maoity of the cetries in  Irn  baaph.  deteforta   nictr    t th              th.rn,ag    f conties unong th  Io' loator  darorda or the aolecyc  dare
etd Isoonut..f.-m,re-tieceo tb heenerteedtnI.elat.ioun oena  ofnidicatortoo..torbe. Th.eaeeger  onroflorptcrnhcIloeof
Tot'al  To tel=fsurtscee  comyrceho  lsnd eraa end irland naue,uban, enod rur1) dioided by ithillrerocenutro  bostt   boos"
Aaiolnu-l-1 - Etletiete oferiutosae  need temporarily o  peraoncn,ly                                eniuiaieo...r riorgoru   n  nIhllie    b Iettl sndr'e
for rr.y.. ya--ne, -curhet nd kitchen gsrde.. rnolet.ln    I    ee                                habilitatinretd     a    roi ey i  are eetabd1ihebentn  rerdacntl.y eteffed
Gj.IE1.1   -.1111 1.T -Pit-   et        -lkf                               ~~~~~~by at  .. les  one  hybyti. OZ-VEttalihehont  pr-odidoo  rrtcipaliycusno
-eaa b   ae  onri-n method te Fod Book Atlee (1977-79 boats); 19 69.                      and  .ed i.a. .er..   nt      Resctly1 a.,tatfed  byup_n_     uc(otb
1970, and 1909 dana.                                                                                aend.dicneitar.nus,niol'tt.)ru                        fe   it-yaidntoctlao
"d  'S"t   ... 11--   hy                  .1 In.  y                     ~     ~~~~~~~damon and proride   ileited rang  cI  ee dic-lff .a.c.fea.  Persane
tricIty)   kin tlgrm    ofIdiqioln    or             itapr; 1960. 1970, snd 1909                    cehr.-eciue    orri   r    Incuddonl                       erttl
ICS                                                          P~~~~~~~~~~~~~fraheita1e dcttded by the  ubec ofbeda.'
POPULATIONg ANDI hOITAI iTATtiSd-h-IS
Tete  roruanlo.   OddTea  (touans   - af July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1909                           IOUSING
data.                                                                                            Arra  Smo   cunod(rros'tioeood     tnl oIn   ndrr
Iranpenaio   oernto  tta)- ainn  ubn  otoalrrueto;A  oerod   crinao  agoo   f  rindul  ncatn  iongIfnr
dfeetdefneoso   ra   ra   s   fetcmaeityo   esadthi   u    em                                                              ore   rlde   a   ntynrh   nlddi
ing  , life Y    20p00no  at Cbirth increasi_gwt   om       a   atai                       Acos   o   lority)oratof deel-ioe)- toaluracan-                           rra 
arel, P.o. feal  lf   endertony othilie  or                    l 07.   year. Th  pore-         Conertf hoe.eb"       osntheeti m inlotqetre at lg
fetityerrdn   to incoaei_avalCand pa,,,fatly  planning performanceI
tehcutr   stenaege  one o-fy "thes  tine n fbathrne of aoraitr                  tICATI
rh  terb raei   qa  t  h   et  rc,ed,s t                  he"'l   ag Itrcur_s                  Cnrilsert 1   of-il,, ogi t th  pr,imay lene  se  q--etae  ofreprt
ma flee Y ro -soedng th  in- acIe_dol.      anrfrilt            e  declie totrimar  acno-age..  pople dions; normllyin,udshjry    ae  61
esiatdh      ete  ehboiisprjctdchrterhAt   f  h  pyleie                                            ttr ot    eyl   rehlo   n  bnete  fica   abulae
monoleve._eurlyoeneufrsnr  eestfou  yeas .o a tpove   primayte rhn
tels  ba  ae  rnted.uulfo   2t  17 yeas     age  rrneyfnsc   ore   r   eesl
only  196.d 17 nd17  date.:-It- ~ h                                                           'oI-terr rat.io-ri hdo.,and  _eo 1ndor  -Tota  studet  enrolled  h
Pouato  hsitutuafenen)-  hlde   (-u  et.,P,hogee  1-Jrmayen   scrartensdiledb  nmer   f  srhr  i  h
lther;196d 170,seA197  daa.                                                                     dul lieray rte  ranert  -  iteat,aduts.ehidnoree  sn  nntl
ForultionIroeh tue IncenI- -.total -Th.un  gr     -htae  of. tetl  i-                          eaprtnng  of, total autf_  p Itulanio  aged 15year  and              t 0c..
pplto;1960, 1970, and 1979 data.                                                          auhitsrynebi...ciiets.tnd
plir;199,1970,le en197 978    dn.rednet  toY  gspltee                                                               t puli  pee   l ihone tnd o  pouaion; serlufidesee-
ni     19yraes 0sull  lve-d s  aeaesedngi996.1909nd17.dee  countries eh...Isdliesig
Pe 1yPenn-sn   rrrn   fartdcat   Pecetage f  married-                                         inonleedinybethenginaio                          ;fo    ens  aed len effeu.
almridmenIn 9eseag  grn             d IunPo.o   dail  geerl In terest .i. nnppr..del lea  asprn dicei
C--d- Birth   tt (Ill th ..... d) - ApubicaIonderoad  nimtllyrniecoringge.rsillts   Intefcn"iSte
CfOolt io   1960TIo                                                                                  to9he "daIly' dt'1h.O ht apysarsat las   ou2     lmseeh
Inden -t of    . Pon   Productio   -per      ..h  P,11   -eId ta911969-71 h..-.Ide   o.f per -capit                     thui Cnead o  Attndnc  ten c lo ta -s Aepllsd   nthtnmero
prdnio   fal- od-ty resod ifi h. -proucioneoue   ededfe   n                                 ikr   oddrn    b   a    Inldigdmshnnnrnetceea
is ontelenar yer bsis.  Cedts- . s.          pimrygode(eg  sugarcaneIend achil  unicts.                                            Y
nninesstg   podue  prneeghs  1961-61. 1970, ad1979 data1.                            bnelLaorPuce(teuads-ftemal.cospees,Onld
pe;tb-day.  Arai-al  eu-lue, ce.pnia. doeei  p.unn,ip                .n.ls                    net.. topaabe;  90   90ed17   aa
ma eta see eat 'n       t byPA  based d onpyilgclned-rno lani                              ihn    spernaeo   oa  labr  ore;190,190   ndi99  aa
nay and hesoth  etaug    t  euvino1 ete 4s4ertura  bod  elat   age                         Sduaer   lneet  -~ Labor. forc   hf inng                  lestutte,  i ma ffantutn
sadseadisrbto   of                    l poultin  an  blo ing1  pecen  for..  t.s   nadsetily    se   n   a  A   scnaeo   oa   ao   om    90
househld lest; 191-65  1900  and197  dae.                                                97-sa  199 dte
netD A   nppIyI offnfa a.Ntspl   ffn   sdfne    saoc    o                                           ciiysssso                tda "deel pmale  ed.fisoid  paentorsa
andeereioeerthaonhoee  ofolgnsIdmsnP.'fittI....otel penlenlmemo                    sasi Atsste..t. f            Ccmma teuathsnurc-s
entmal protein as an  rergsfurnb  mald tpopse y   PA   ntemcdtcoitnrne                                         thri   -.. atto    i. nppueI teudr11ed6  sdte
Pe  art proei Purd-- from   -ihte ed   le-                     Idel    19ppl  oftondOs
etred  from  enumela and pulees he gram 9 pe _sy6 96- 19 1900 and  197  dne     INOI ononnood
Clb  aces 14-h)  ortlin   aeln  hued     Ana   etspnt s    tofPrcenage-f Prvate Incm                                            fbth-Inat and htind             sevdb   ihs
ngenronnl-k      1  yer fnchlrninisg           gopfn stdeveloytLcoe-                           peuetnihat1            pecn-orel    percen               ...dp Iresnhnonen
peeedt d   deirdfy      nlie  ale;190  1900 end.bl   1909 data,y   l.pt                         ofe fousebelads.                 .t.l
il 'flPiu porn-                               IPldt,,   lt,.1.                               ...ny   liduer unpi.n
her.P.popl ('.  ltonl,b uran, end rural  tint resnabi.lebatoas to, safiafodale
mae  sc   e hnfrmprtcedbrho jlas,i- sp                    ..ge  ed. eanngr  malls  as           tualreltin   pvet   tan.lvl.eoetir .fergeptcpt
earn ..ednages    tiof  fbhreetr p oplsp     r. In aigeht ras    cbIr                            pesna"et"e th                  f-uty Tban leo  i* drv d                 Ite,th  rra
husdee   a  adgtibn ,ssnalasresofnanhnstIsnra   res                                    ttiandPtuenr  elecAseus  oerrInre  ee   lenati - g                           edmd
An not here to spend a disproportloontape  of,  thedadinfethg                         -per"
fsmtly' seater reeds,      ti_, 
noesoIntrald   ileusa   leane   of  e ultlnn-Ionl.turbn.tendr_rti
shbro   efl   ntl  ure,ga   ua) sacred.i bp             ... .eo   pet disposal as                    199 dt
tbolsnInad d      Islal, tNt erethu  tstao,ifbusseen
Peoul=no    nPyslln     oulto   dirfded by                 Wineds of prnilu  phys-                 ..iittay I.  .  fRJ  -9fp
casqatedfI         t tdoe   schol atutesiylvl
f. fdei    607c   Nurin   Paron    nplabinndhld by USDA abed   ofpstinlng90   90   n   97   .1                                     1   l:f,  L,l:ttPi
eesadfmaegautel  nurses, pracrinapl nursesand 20aSiat .   ii Ptorees.                                                                     .  f 1  Ib.~fl



- 24 -
Annex I
Page 4
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:            92.9 million (January 1981)
CNP Per Capita:        US$120 (FY80)
Amount          Average Annual Increase (%)        Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)
(million USS        (in constant FY75 prices)                  (in current prices)
Indicator                                       in current prices)
FY80           FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-80        FY60       FY70       FY75       FY80
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                              11,346            4.0      -0.6        5.7        100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
Agriculture /a                                      6,085             3.1      -1.3        3.6         59.9       56.9       62.5       53.6
Industry /a                                         1,383             7.9      -3.2        5.9          7.7        9.6       11.3       12.2
Services /a                                         3,877             4.9       3.3        9.0         30.1       30.0       26.2       34.2
Consumption                                            11,466            4.4      -0.7        5.2         92.4       92.8      100.0      101.1
Gross investment                                        1,660           10.9    -10.9        13.5          6.9       11.3        7.0       14.6
Exports of goods & nfs                                    820            0.8    -11.7         4.0         10.0        8.3        3.1        7.2
Imports of goods & nfs                                  2,600            8.8    -12.0         5.3          9.3       12.5       10.1       22.9
Gross national savings                                     36           26.5    -17.7        -8.4          0.9        6.1        0.6        0.3
Amount                                             Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)
(million US$                                                  (in current prices)
in current prices)
FY80                                             FY73       FY75       FY79       FY80
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                                   719.2                                              100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
Primary                                           198.0                                                40.6       34.2       35.7       32.1
Manufactures                                      521.2                                                59.4       65.8       64.3       67.9
Merchandise imports                                2,352.0                                               100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
Food                                              691.0                                                44.1       41.5       16.1      29.4
Petroleum                                         390.0                                                 3.2       11.1       11.5       16.6
Machinery & equipment                             491.0                                                13.8        9.6       25.0       20.9
Other                                             780.0                                                38.9       37.8       47.4       33.1
FY74       FY75       FY76       FY77       FY78       FY79      FY80
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE (1972/73=100)
GDP Deflator                                                            140.6      240.5      183.1      177.2      203.6      216.8      254.4
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                                  7.9661    8.8759   14.8521   15.4667   15.1215    15.2228   15.4779
Export price index                                                      104.4      126.0      108.3      118.7      129.6      165.6      207.1
Import price index                                                      153.0      186.5      179.4      173.7      172.7      205.5      241.5
Terms of trade index                                                     68.2       67.6       60.4       68.3       75.0       80.6       85.8
As % GDP
(at current prices)
FY73       FY75      FY77       FY80
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                                    5.0        5.4        9.5        10.4
Current expenditure                                                                6.5        4.5        7.8         7.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                        -1.5       +0.9       +1.7        +2.8
Capital expenditure                                                                8.8        3.1        9.5        13.3
Foreign financing                                                                  7.1        2.4        6.0         8.2
1960-70    1970-75    1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                                                     4.2       -0.7          5.8
GNP per capita growth rate(%)                                                            1.5      -3.3         3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (%)
/a At market prices.
= not available
not applicable
ASADD
Jul) 15, 1981



- 25 -
Annex I
Page 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million LS$, in current prices)
Actual                                              Est.             Projected
FY74       FY75         FY76      FY77         FY78        FY79          FY80         FY81          FY82         FY83
BALA4CE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods & services                          -573       -1,031      -  901       -426       -  870      -  947       -1,640        -1,859 *    -1,920        -2,180
Enports of goods & services                             403          453          454       514          559         690          809           833           980       1,120
Imports of goods & services                            -976      -1,484       -1,355       -940      -1,429       -1,637       -2,449       -2,692        -2,900       -3,300
Net transfers                                               19          34           62         81         113          140          163           219          262          320
Current account balance                                  -554         -997         -839      -345         -757         -807      -1,477        -1,640        -1,658      -1,860
Direct private investment                                   ..           ..          ..         .           ,,           ..           20            25           30           40
MLT loans (net)                                            276         498          498       238          398          420          581          659           750          850
Grants 6 grant-like flows                                 169          383          243       253          386          555         601           700           750          800
Other capital flows (net)                                   51         267           45       -65          -52          -44          133          236            97          220
Change in reserves (- - increase)                           58        -151           53       -81           25        -124           142           20            31          -50
lnteroational reserves (end of period)                    115          266          213       294          269          393         251           231           200         250
Reserves as months of imports of next year               0.93         2.36         2.72      2.47         1.97         1.93        1.12          0.96          0.73        0.83
Actual
FY74       FY75         FY76       FY77        F_Y78         FY79         FY80
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                         168.6        383.1      243.5       252.7        385.7       355.2        600.1
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                        287.4        518.9      563.5       268.3        435.3       476.8        631.4
Concessional                                            201.4        458.4      533.0       244.1        400.8       456.4        601.6
Bilateral                                             150.4       342.8       389.9       144.0       261.9        212.6        272.7
IDA                                                    51.0       112.5       127.8        86.1        88.2        152.5        152.1
Other multilateral                                       -           3.1       15.3        14.1         50.7        91.3        176.9
Non-concessional                                         86.0         60.4        30.4       24.1         34.5         20.4        29.8
Official export credits                                40.6         45.2       16.)         5.6          1.7         3.3         16.8
IBRD                                                     -            -          -           -            -           -            -
Other multilateral                                      5.4          0.3         1.1        0.5          0.5         0.1          0.3
Private                                                40.0         14.9       12.8        18.0        32.3         17.0         12.7
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and disbursed (end of period)   492.8            1,352.6   1,795.9    2,051.5        2,569.2      2,949.2      3,215.6
Official                                              383.3     1,232.8    1,689.0   1.939.8        2,435.6      2,808.3      3,068.8
IBRD                                                   -         54.9        54.9       54.9         54.9         54.9        54.9
IDA                                                105.6        255.3       379.8      465.9        554.2        706.7       858.8
Other                                              222.8        922.6    1,254.3   1,419.0        1,826.5     2,046.7      2,155.1
Private                                               109.5        119.8      106.9       111.6       133.6        140.9        146.8
Undisbursed Debt                                        580.8     1,019.4       947.5    1,015.8      1,335.4      1,659.1      1,716.7
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                              18.0         31.3       87.4        58.5         69.3        95.1         93.7
Interest                                                7.3         10.1       21.9        28.4        32.1         38.1         43.3
Payments as % exports                                     4.5          6.9       19.3        11.4         12.4        13.8         11.6
Paymenrt  as % GNP                                        0.2          0.2         1.2        0.9          0.8          1.0         0.8
Average interest rate on new loans (2)                    3.2          2.0         1.7        1.6          1.5          1.4         1.4
Official                                                2.9          2.0        1.6         1.5          1.3         1.4          1.2
Private                                                 5.1          2.3        7.8         6.4         6.2          6.1          6.9
Average maturity of new loans (years)                    26.1         35.5       41.6        40.1         37.7        35.9         33.6
Official                                               28.3         35.8       42.2        40.8        38.6         36.3         34.2
Private                                                13.3         15.3       11.3        11.0          9.5        14.8         19.3
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (%)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                         -           4.0         3.0        2.6          2.1         1.8          1.7
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements               -            -           -          -            -            -           -
IBRD debt service/total debt service                       -            -          1.8        5.6          4.8         4.1          3.7
IDA DOD/total DOD                                        21.4         18.8       21.1        22.7         21.6        24.0         26.7
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements              17.7         21.7       22.7        32.1         20.3        32.0         24.0
IDA debt service/total debt service                       1.3          3.1         2.5        5.3          5.4         4.6          6.0
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of FY80
TERM STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (X)
MaturitIes due within S yearn                                                        12.2
Matorities due within 10 years                                                       36.5
Interest structure of debt outstanding (%)
Interest due within first year                                                        1.6
not available.
ASADD
July 15, 1981



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                            US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                 Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 19 credits fully disbursed                    54.90   639.75       -
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                      -       14.00     0.85
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                         -       21.00     1.39
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)           -       25.00     2.77
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                      -       7.50      2.64
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II             -       20.00     7.04
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer               -      62.00      6.33
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                        -      15.00      4.22
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                -      27.00    14.86
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation              -      22.00      9.56
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training -        12.00      4.99
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                 -      16.00      6.90
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank            -      25.00      5.85
-724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                 -      16.00      3.66
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                 -      21.00    13.71
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research            -       10.00     5.36
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II         -        5.00     2.82
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                              -      21.00    14.81
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II              -      25.00    20.82
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                        US$ million /a _b
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II            -        7.00    4.20
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research              -        6.00    3.48
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control         -       19.00   15.58
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III           -       10.00    6.98
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries              -        6.00    5.32
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                -       25.00   22.39
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population &  Family Health II -           32.00   29.84
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -       28.00   27.81
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                    -       22.00   14.96
944    1979   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports                 -       25.00    0.03
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                  -       25.00   24.02
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                        -       10.00    9.56
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII               -       50.00    7.47
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                     -       37.00   23.20
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II         -       20.00   19.61
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                 -       29.00   29.00
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                 -       20.00   19.61
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation             -       11.00   10.87
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II              -       25.00    1.87
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                     -       40.00   38.97
Total                                                 54.90  1,451.25  443.35
of which has been repaid                                -         0.40    -
Total now outstanding                                 54.90  1,450.85  443.35
Amount sold                              0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                        54.90  1,450.85
Total undisbursed                                       -      443.35  443.35
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
7W   See Part B for IDA Credits expressed in SDRs.



- 28 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   STATEMIENIT OF IDA CREDITS EXPRESSED IN SDR (As of September 30, 1981)
Credit   Fiscal                                              Amount in SDR Million
Number    Year      Borrower      Purpose                     Original  Undisbursed
1065     1981       Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry III    26.7            26.7
1071     1981       Bangladesh   Imports Program IX             49.5         23.7
1091     1981       Bangladesh   Bakhrabad Gas Development   64.7            63.8
1096     1981       Bangladesh   Fertilizer Transport
Project                    19.1        19.0
1117     1981       Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II   40.2           40.2
1124     1981       Bangladesh   Technical Assistance IV        12.9         12.9
1140 1/  1981       Bangladesh   Hand Tubewells                 14.8         14.8
1147 2/  1981       Bangladesh   Agricultural Credit            32.6         32.6
Total                                                   260.50        233.7
of which has been repaid                                0.00           -
Total now outstanding                                   260.50        233.7
Amount sold                                  0*00
Total now held by IDA (in SDR)                          260.50
Total Undisbursed                                                     233.7
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   Became effective in October.
3/
C.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTKENTS - (as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ iillion
Year            Obligor                Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding          Ship-
and Heavy Engineering           building
Co. Ltd.                                          1.20    0.36    1.56
1980      IPDC                            DFC                -       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                      1.20.   1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -           -        -
Total commitments now held by IFC                            1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                            0.65    1.05    1.70
3/   The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1981    Asia Leather Industrial
Company Ltd.                Tannery            2.1       .2     2.3



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
D.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation of the tubewell component is complete and a PCR
has been issued. However, the credit remains open to permit completion of a
delayed pilot command area development component which is also being financed
under the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD).
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
Improvements have been made in procurement and installation of
processing equipment, and in completion of civil works and land development,
with the exception of 8,000 tons of additional storage, for which bids are
being evaluated.  Construction should be completed by December 1981.  Similar
progress is being made in completing the Seed Certification Agency (SCA) com-
ponent.  However, the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) component
remains behind schedule due to inadequate funding. The contract grower scheme
continues to make good progress: wheat seed sales have exceeded appraisal
estimates. However, paddy seed sales remain well below appraisal targets
because of poor marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved varie-
ties for multiplication. Consultants have already submitted recommendations
for improvements in seed distribution and marketing. The Seed Certification
Agency would be further strengthened through an intensive training programme
currently being prepared. GOB made full ADP allocations for SCA and BRRI to
permit completion of their FY81 work programs.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project design has been modified and the Closing Date extended
to June 30, 1984, to permit the irrigation of a wider area while retaining
the number of primary pumping stations and sluices included in the original
project. Civil works in the original project area are completed. About
735 low lift pumps were fielded in the FY80 boro season irrigating about
30,000 acres. However, extension and cooperatives staffing constraints
continue to inhibit full utilization of existing irrigation facilities.
They are, however, improving.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date:  February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall project implementation is about 2. 5 years behind schedule
with about 50 percent of works completed. Construction contracts for remaining
structures were awarded by WDB in early 1981. Works on embankments, a major
project component, have not started. The current project cost estimates
prepared by WDB are about 30 percent higher than the appraisal estimate.
WDB has been urged to adopt additional cost savirg measures, with particular
regard to the requirements for the embankments, which are likely to be sub-
stantially reduced and eliminated from the IDA Credit. Without embankment
construction, the project is expected to be completed in June 1983.
Cr. No. 631   Rural Development Project:  USS16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
After initial difficulties, project implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily with project management much improved. The supply of irrigation
equipment and inputs is now satisfactory and the rural works program is making
good physical progress. However, contract supervision and maintenance of com-
pleted works need improvement. GOB has requested that the credit closing date
be extended by one year to allow use of project savings (about US$5 million)
on an expansion of existing components in the present project area.
Cr. No. 724   Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress in procurement has been satisfactory. All 10,500 pumpsets
have been procured. About 55% of the pumpsets have already been sold. The
construction of workshops is proceeding with a modified program and workshop
equipment has been ordered.
Cr. No. 725 l4uhuri Irrigation Project: US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation is about two years behind schedule. Recent
delays were experienced because of equipment break downs, lack of heavy equip-
ment for excavation, and heavy rains. This has been resolved through the
purchase of new equipment and the renting of others. Construction works
of Feni Regulator considerably improved. Prequalification documents for the
closure dam and embankments, the only remaining major works, have been issued,
and tender documents are being finalized. A revised cost estimate shows a
10% increase over the appraisal estimates.



- 31-
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 729   Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977;  Effective Date:  January 6, 1978;  Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works construction is nearing completion. Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 60 to 100% in most areas. Main achievement
of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation throughout
Northwest. Some delays have been experienced due to late release of local
funds by the Government.
Cr. No. 765   Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Farmers have been encouraged to use higher quantities of fertilizer,
resulting in higher yields. As expected, higher jute production forced marginal
jute farmers to switch to rice production in the aus season. Consequently rice
production has increased. IDA credit on lending problem has also been solved.
Staff travel allowance is inadequate and that is hampering production credit
recovery effort. Local fund allocation is also inadequate. A review mission
is now in the field to evaluate the project's progress.
Cr. No. 787   Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project had a slow start due to administrative difficulties,
problems in land acquisition and material shortages. Implementation of the
project's 145,000 ton procurement storage component is now progressing satis-
factorily, but the storage rehabilitation and relief storage programs have
only now been taken up. Quality control operations are yet to be improved,
and paddy dryers still need to be procured. Consultants have been engaged for
engineering, quality control and paddy drying; and the pilot marketing project
is doing well at the Muktagacha Thana Central Cooperative Association, the
first one to participate in the project. The project is now anticipated to be
completed by December 31, 1982, six months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 828   Agricultural Research Project:  USS6 Million Credit of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation is satisfactory. The BARC headquarters
building has been completed and is occupied. Construction and farm develop-
ment at the three regional stations is progressing slowly. The BARC research
grant scheme is in operation and the consultants appointed to advise BARC on
procedures for financial planning and recording and for research monitoring
and evaluation have completed their work. A total of 31 students have been
sent abroad for PhD training.



- 32-
ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 864   Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Of the three sub-projects financed under the project, Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) are expected to be completed on schedule in
mid-1983. Delays have been experienced, however, in the implementation of the
Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE). Agreement has recently been reached on
retirement of the embankment and disbursement for this part of the project is
expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 890   Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
A 45 ha. site has been acquired for the construction of the central
carp hatchery facility, the designs for which have already been prepared and
approved by IDA.
Cr. No. 955   Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project:  US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
A total of 19 subprojects have been approved to date. Construction
has been completed on nine subprojects, and tendering is in progress on the
remainder.
Cr. No. 990   Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Orders placed for 3,000 two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs
(Phase I of the sales program) were delivered in October 1980. Orders have
also been placed on the remaining 4,000 LLPs. Sales for the first phase has
begun with about 1,000 LLPs sold. A detailed project Action Plan has also
been prepared.
Cr. No. 1042 Mangrove Afforestation Project: US$11.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall progress is satisfactory. The Project Director and all key
personnel are in post. The PTU consultant has been appointed; his first visit
is scheduled for August/September 1981. It has been agreed that SPARRSO (for-
merly Bangladesh Landset Programme) should undertake the 5 year Remote Sensing
Programme and a draft scheme has been prepared; Landset imagery tapes obtained
in February will be processed shortly; aerial photography will be completed at
the end of the year.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 1140 Hand Tubewells Project: US$18.0 Million Credit of July 8, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective. IDA has extended effectiveness
period and has established November 10, 1981 as later date. Progress towards
meeting conditions for effectiveness is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1147 Agricultural Credit Project: US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 9, 1981; Effective Date: October 6, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This Credit has become effective very recently.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527   Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland,
UK and US, for a total of about US$190 million equivalent, in addition to the
IDA credit. The project is about three years behind schedule because of the
additional site works required to protect the proposed plant from earthquake
risks and initial delays in the placement of orders and construction planning.
Because of the additional site works, the delays and currency fluctuations,
supplemental financing was necessary and has been obtained. Plant mechanically
practically completed. Despite continuing minor commissioning problems,
production of urea is expected to start around end 1981, slightly later than
anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, and total projects costs
are likely to be close to that approved at the time of IDA supplementary
financing.
Cr. No. 632   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 30, 1981, disbursements were about US$19.2 million.
Cr. No. 825   Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been significant improvement in institutional
capabilities of the commercial banks; and staff of the Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation have begun preparation of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion. The project was fully committed by the commer-
cial banks in July 1980.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 944   Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
As of September 30, 1981, disbursements were about US$24.97 million.
In total, the Credit will have financed the imports of about US$70,000 t urea
and 40,000 t TSP. The credit was closed on June 30, 1981 and payment for
commitments in the pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 980   Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
As of September 30, 1981, US$42.53 million had been disbursed.
Cr. No. 1023 Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$29 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Consultants for providing engineering services
have been selected and their contracts approved.
Cr. No. 1032 Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been fairly satisfactory though some
delay has been experienced in the recruitment of consultants. Tender Notices
for procurement of spares have been issued and those for the construction of
two new training centers are in preparation.
Cr. No. 1044 Second Fertilizer Imports Project: US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
As of September 30, 1981 US$23.13 million had been disbursed. The
credit was closed on June 30, 1981 and payment for commitments in the pipeline
will continue.
Cr. No. 1065 Small-Scale Industry III Project: US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit became effective on January 15, 1981. As of July 15,
1981 US$1.2 million had been committed.



-T5 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 1071  Ninth Imports Program:  US$65 Million Credit of October 17, 1980;
Effective Date; November 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
As of September 30, 1981 disbursements were about SDR 25.8 million.
Cr. No. 1117 Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project: US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: August 12, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
This Credit became effective on August 12, 1981.  As of September 30,
1981 US$21.7 million had been committed.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407   Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:  September 27, 1973; Closing Date:  December 31,
1980
The project financed completion of the construction of the Bangladesh
Agricultural University (BAU), a fellowship program for BAU and building of
five new and equipping of eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics).
The credit was closed on December 31, 1980. It is estimated that about US$1.4
million will be cancelled during November 1981 as soon as payments of existing
commitments in the pipeline are made. Project costs (in dollar terms) are
close to appraisal estimates due to currency devaluation. At credit closing
the technical education (polytechnics) component was completed in most respects
but the BAU continues with the construction of the auditorium, student hostels
and other non academic buildings. The government has committed itself to
the completion of this project from its own resources. Efforts to arrange
for architectural supervision financed under a T.A. credit are underway.
A Technical Education consultant is currently in the field assisting the
government to prepare a project completion report.
Cr. No. 621   Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of the civil works associated with the training
institutions is about 85% complete and about 95% of the equipment has been
procured, although training programs are running at 75% of trainee capacity.
The physical aspects of the project are generally on schedule. However,
the recruitment of consultants, to assist in implementation of studies and
in developing training programs has been delayed by about two years, largely
because of the ineffectiveness of the National Committee on Rural Training
(NCRT). IDA has agreed to finance the cost of local consultants to assist
the NCRT in performing its functions. These consultants have already produced
an interim report. Part I of the Agricultural Management Training Institute
courses, organized by Coverdale consultants for training staff has been
completed, and the program will continue to completion in March 1982.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 912   Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project was declared effective on November 5, 1979. Short
courses of about six months duration have replaced longer programs at four
technical training centers, and will be offered at the five TTCs to be
constructed and equipped under the project. A team of ILO trade training
consultants is assisting project development, and a project related fellowship
program of overseas training is available to Government and industrial officers.
Additional staff have been appointed to manage project implementation, though
some delays are occurring in reaching agreed staffing levels. Efforts are
also being made to increase recruitment and improve retention of skilled
instructors, which is essential to project success.
Cr. No. 1054 Fourth Education (Primary) Project: US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The project was declared effective on December 1, 1980. Activities
planned for the first year (1981), i.e. staff training, base-line evaluation,
materials production (textbook, girls uniforms) and distribution and the
formation of school Management Committees are underway and progressing
steadily. Delays in two areas, evaluation and physical construction, have
been identified. The remedial steps introduced by GOB and UNESCO (evaluation)
will, however, minimize the delays.
Population Project
Cr. No. 533   Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
Except for Part A (Training and Service Facilities), implementation
of five of the project's six main parts was completed in mid-1980. The only
major problem delaying project completion, in respect of which the original
Closing Date was extended by one year to December 31, 1981, is the slow
implementation of the Training and Service Facilities part of the project.
Although 6 of the 21 facilities are now fully completed and 7 more are
expected to be completed between July-September, 1981, a second extension
of the Closing Date may be needed to permit full project completion and full
disbursement of credit proceeds.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Cr. No. 921   Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Except for the first tranche (1979/80) of the Family Welfare
Centers' component, project execution effectively commenced only in July,
1980 and, in relation to the original four year implementation period, is
currently about one year behind schedule. While the impact of this delay
on two parts of the project (Information, Education and Motivation (IEN)
and Research and Evaluation) is not significant except in terms of credit
disbursements, the civil works components of the service delivery and
training parts of the project are experiencing problems owing not only to
delayed implementation but also to proposed budget cuts, revised building
design standards, and domestic and international price inflation. Solutions
to these problems are currently being discussed with the Government.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408   Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims is in progress. The Closing Date of
the credit extended to March 31, 1981 has been extended to December 31, 1982
to enable the use of uncommitted credit balance to cover short term protective
Feni Bypass pavement work, and to meet the cost of eligible components of the
arbitration. Significant failures have appeared on Feni Bypass. GOB and IDA
are investigating causes of the failures and possible remedies.
Cr. No. 735   Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit
of September 30, 1977; Effective Date:  March 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Credit effectiveness was three and a half months behind original
schedule. Spare parts for BIWTA vessels, navigation aids, hydrographic and
cargo handling have been ordered, and bid documents for telecommunications
equipment are ready and awaiting clearance by TTB. Lists of spare parts
for BIWTC cargo vessel have been prepared and most items have been ordered.
Consultants appointed to carry out studies on IWT sector, fleet scheduling
of BIWTC and accounting systems for BIWTA and BIWTC have submitted their
reports. Implementation of the recommendations of the accounting studies
is in progress. At the request of the Borrower the closing date has been
extended to December 31, 1982.



-38 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
Cr. No. 964   Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979;  Effective Date:  August 29, 1980;  Closing Date:  June 30,
1984.
Implementation of the project has been delayed as a result of the
Borrower's failure to make timely recommendations for award of construction
contracts. Since these contracts were scheduled to commence early October
1980, at the beginning of the construction season, the project has been
delayed by about two years and completion by the anticipated completion
date of May 1983 is no longer possible. Completion by the Credit Closing
Date of June 30, 1984 is possible but is dependent on much improved Borrower
performance and avoidance of further unnecessary delays.
Cr. No. 1096   Fertilizer Transport Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: July 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This Credit became effective on July 24, 1981. Contract for trial
dredging at Chittagong for which retroactive financing has been approved,
has been under execution since April 1981 and is progressing satisfactorily.
Telecommunications ProJects
Cr. No. 487   Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project execution is largely behind schedule due to previous
delays in procurement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone
cables and switching equipment factories. Difficulties were also experienced
in completing the local construction and installation of the systems. TTB, a
Goverument board since April 1979, is making significant progress in organizing
its finances and accounts, and in managing its operations and development. TTB
funds have until recently all been deposited in an overall Government account.
This was changed and, since July 1981, TTB has a designated bank account to
which all funds are deposited and withdrawn. Thus, TTB has achieved a level of
financial autonomy that will permit it to adjust its development program within
the overall framework of the agreed budget. Training on commercial accounts
is about to be completed and commercial accounts will be prepared from FY82/83
onward. In general, financial performance of TTB is reasonably good. Cove-
nants under the project are now being complied with. TTB has recently taken
final procurement action to commit the funds remaining under the project.
Works related to last procurement will be completed by June 1983. Adequate
actions as would be required to further improve TTB's management, operations
and development capability, will be considered under the proposed third tele-
communications project.



-39 9
ANNEX II
Page 14
Technical Assistance Credits
Cr. No. 872   Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
35 subprojects, totaling about $9.0 million have been approved and
a further 10 subprojects, totaling about $9 million have been approved in
principle. Those that are finalized first would be considered under this
credit (with the remainder being funded under the recently approved Fourth
Technical Assistance credit).
Cr. No. 1124 Fourth Technical Assistance.Project: US$16.0 Killion Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: June 10, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on June 10, 1981. A number of
proposed subprojects have been agreed in principle and steps are being taken
to secure consultant services.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934   Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Foreign consultants (Motor Columbus - Switzerland) have been ap-
pointed as scheduled and have begun design work. Project execution is about
one year behind schedule due to administrative difficulties in preparing maps
for the project areas and to the inability of the beneficiary (Power Develop-
ment Board) to provide adequate local staff for project implementation. To
improve the situation, local consultants have been appointed in September
1981.
Cr. No. 1091  Bakhrabad Gas Development Project:  US$85.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: June 16, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Pipeline design and preparation of procurement documents is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. After initial delays due to unseasonal rains and
materials shortages, BK-2 well has been completed. Production tests confirm
the adequacy of reserves of the Bakhrabad gas fields, and the procurement
of _i.-erials .nd services for the pipeline portion of the project has been
authorized. Pipeline materials and construction contracts are expected to
be awarded in time to complete crossings and other preliminary phases during
the 1981/82 dry season and the entire pipeline the following year.



- 40-
ANNEX II
Page 15
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941   Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  USS22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
DACCA WASA's consulting engineers have virtually completed design
and it is expected that procurement will be completed by end 1981. Physical
progress is one year behind schedule. Early delays resulted from slow start-
up and sluggish procurement but are currently due to land acquisition problems
and shortage of local currency with which to pay civil works contractors.
Cr. No. 1001  Second Chittagong Water Supply-Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Effective Date: April 9, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
After early delays in selecting consultants for the project a firm
is now in place and design is now progressing satisfactorily. Selection of
a second consultant for a sewerage/sanitation study is now in progress. An
expatriate financial adviser has taken post and is proving effective. Pro-
curement has started but implementation will be about 1 1/2 years behind
schedule.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
TEXTILE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION CREDIT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section 1:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: three years
(b) Agencies preparing the project: UNIDO/UNDP
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and date of first
mission to consider the project: March 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission: March 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: December 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: 90 days after signature
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions.
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) BTMC would establish a project implementation cell
(paragraph 47);
(b) GOB would issue the necessary Government Order for the
winding up of four selected mills (paragraph 54);



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Condition of disbursement:
Signing of subsidiary loan agreement between GOB and
BTMC (paragraph 49).
Other Conditions
(a) GOB would complete introduction of market determined
pricing system in accordance with a time schedule accept-
able to IDA (paragraph 52);
(b) BTMC would prepare and implement a program for improving its
organization and management systems and production planning
and control procedures (paragraphs 56 and 58); and
(c) GOB would provide sufficient cash infusions and equity to
enable BTMC and the mills to achieve agreed financial targets
(paragraph 59).



