CREDIT NUMBER 1205 BD
Project Agreement
(Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANGLADESH TEXTILE MILLS CORPORATION
Dated                        \       , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1205 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    \ (             , 1982,
between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association) and Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation (here-
inafter called BTMC).
WHEREAS by. the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-six million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 26,100,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and on condi-
tion that BTMC agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BTMC, parts of the proceeds of the
Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will
be made available to BTMC on terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS BTMC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the general Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BTMC  shall carry out or cause to be carried
out Parts A and C of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit' Agreement with due diligence and efficiency


﻿-2-
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices and in accordance with detailed plans and
schedules satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.02. (a) BTMC shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreevent. Except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, BTMC shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
(b) BTMC shall, not later than June 30, 1982, enter into a
contract as referred to in Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement with each of the Mills participating in
Part A of the Project, and shall furnish to the Association a
conformed copy of each such contract promptly upon its execution.
Section 2.03. For purposes of Part A of the Project, BTMC
shall promptly establish a Project Implementation Cell with
staffing, functions, powers and responsibilities satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. In order to improve the marketing system
and procedures of the textile sector, BTMC shall, not later
than June 30, 1982, establish within BTMC's headquarters a Market-
ing Cell which shall inter alia: (i) assess the consumer needs
and preferences to be reflected in production planning; (ii)
assess and test the possibilities for product diversification for
local and export markets; and (iii) monitor the effects of
market determined prices in selected Mills and advice on adjust-
ments in marketing, inventory and production planning, as neces-
sary.
Section 2.05. For the purpose of carrying out Part C of the
Project, BTMC shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1982, furnish to the
Borrower and the Association for review and comments the respect-
ive programs for the improvement of: (i) its organization and
management succession planning; (ii) the production planning
and control systems, including any necessary organizational
changes; (iii) the organizational structure of BTMC's training
function and the career planning for the staff of the training
institutes and centers; and (iv) the management information and


﻿-3-
control system, including financial planning and control and
management reporting procedures;
(b) carry out the programs referred to in paragraph (a)
above taking into account the comments made by the Borrower and
the Association and in accordance with the time schedule set
forth in such programs"; and
(c) carry out a program of labour rationalization so as to
achieve, by June 30, 1985 and thereafter not exceed, a spindle/
employee ratio of about 26:1 and a loom/employee ratio of about
0.8:1.
Section 2.06. In order to assist BTMC in carrying out Parts
A and C of the Project, BTMC shall employ consultants whose
selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, in accordance with the principles and procedures described
in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers ahd the World Bank as Executing Agency," published by
the Bank in August 1981, as follows:
(a) by July 31, 1982, (i) a marketing advisor to assist
BTMC establish a Marketing Cell and carry out its duties pursuant
to Section 2.04 of this Agreement; (ii) a production planning
advisor to assist BTMC prepare and implement the production
planning and control program referred to in Section 2.05 (a) (ii)
of this Agreement; and (iii) financial management advisors
necessary to assist BTMC prepare and implement the financial
management program referred to in Section 2.05 (a) (iv) of this
Agreement; and
(b) such other consultants or experts as the Borrower, the
Association and BTMC shall from time to time agree.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) BTMC undertakes to insure or cause the
Mills to insure, or make or cause to be made, adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and


﻿-4-
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such fisurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely Iusable by BTMC or the Mills to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, BTMC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.09. (a) BTMC shall furnish or cause to be fur-
nished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request.
(b) BTMC shall, or shall cause the Mills to: (i) maintain
records and procedures adequate to register and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and, where appro-
priate the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to
show their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit all plants, installations,
sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of BTMC and the
Mills and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such inform-
ation as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in
any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between BTMC
and the Association, BTMC shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by BTMC and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(d) Upon the award by BTMC of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿-5-
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
Section 2.10. (a) BTMC shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) BTMC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by BTMC of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BTMC
Section 3.01. BTMC shall at all times conduct its affairs
and operations in accordance with sound administrative, financial
and commercial practices.
Section 3.02. BTMC and the Mills shall at all times operate
and maintain their machinery, equipment and other property,
and *from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, administrative, financial and commercial practices.
Section 3.03. BTMC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. BTMC shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. BTMC shall furnish to the Association audited
balance sheets for BTMC and the Mills as follows:
(a) by April 30, 1982 for fiscal year 1979/1980; and
(b) by September 30, 1982 for fiscal year 1980/1981.
Section 4.03. BTMC shall: (i) have the accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) of BTMC and the Mills for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of the financial statements of BTMC and the Mills for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Asso-
ciation such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of BTMC or the Mills and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, BTMC shall, or shall cause the Mills to, achieve by
June 30, 1986, and thereafter maintain:
(i) a debt/equity ratio aot greater than 60:40;
(ii) a ratio of current assets to current liabilities
(hereinafter referred to as the current ratio) of
at least 1.5:1; and
(iii) a ratio of net revenues to debt service require-
ments of at least 1.2:1.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means any debt maturing by its
terms more than twelve months after the date on
which it is originally incurred;
(ii) the term "equity" means all unimpaired paid-in
share capital plus accumulated net earnings from
prior fiscal years not set apart for specific


﻿-7-
purposes and reserves not allocated to cover
specific liabilities;
(iii) the term "current assets" means cash (excluding
advances to contractors for construction of
facilities under the Project or any other capital
investment), assets readily convertible into cash
(excluding stocks of spares and advances from
customers), and all other assets which could in
the ordinary course of business be converted
within one year into cash or assets readily
convertible into cash;
(iv) the term "current liabilities" means liabilities
due and payable and all other liabilities which
would be due and payable, or could be called for
payment, within one year, including the portion of
debt falling due within one year;
(v) debt shall be deemed to be incurred under a loan
contract or agreement on the date the contract or
loan agreement providing for such debt is entered
into, and, in case of a guarantee, on the date of
execution and delivery of the agreement providing
for such guarantee;
(vi) the term "net revenues" means gross revenue from
all sources less operating and administrative
expenses, including taxes, surcharges and other
levies, if any, but before provision for deprecia-
tion and interest and other charges on debt;
and
(vii) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization, interest and
other charges in respect of debt.
(c) Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of this
Section to value in the currency of the Borrower debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of
the rate of exchange at which such other currency is obtainable
by BTMC or the Mills, at the time such valuation is made, for the
purposes of servicing such debt or, if such other currency is
not so obtainable, at such rate of exchange as shall be accept-
able to the Association.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of BTMC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 18 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
BTMC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement
between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice
or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-9-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BTMC:
Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation
33, Dilkhusa Commercial Area
Dacca 2
Bangladesh
Cable address:                      Telex:
CORTEX                             65806 TEX BJ
Dacca                              Dacca
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BTMC may be taken or executed by
its Director, Planning and Development or such other person or
persons as the Chairman of BTMC's Board of Directors shall
designate in writing, and BTMC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 10 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
BANGLADESH TEXTILE MILLS CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" dated
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, BTMC shall prepare and forward to the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days;prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods in question. BTMC shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so,long as any goods remain to be
procured.on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose, of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales
and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower
of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to-the place of their use or installation
shall be included.


﻿- 12 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(i) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Bangladesh if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of BTMC and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Bangladesh equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(ii) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(iii) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of
this further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount
of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of the goods


﻿- 13 -
offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price
of such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such
price. If the group A bid in such further comparison is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from
group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
(1) Proprietary items may be procured through negotiated
contracts or through limited international tendering on the basis
of at least 3 price quotations, all in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association provided, however, that prior
approval of the Association is obtained for the list of said
items so to be*procured.
(2) Items costing less than $50,000 equivalent per con-
tract may be procured through limited international tendering
on the basis of at least 3 price quotations.
(3) Items costing less than $20,000 equivalent per con-
tract may be procured through local shopping on the basis of at
least three price quotations provided that the aggregate of
all items so procured shall not exceed $500,000 equivalent.
(4) Equipment and spare parts may be procured from the
workshops of BTMC or the Mills provided that: (i) the said
items. shall meet the specifications required for the Project;
(ii) the procurement cost shall be adjudged competitive by BTMC
on the basis of at least three quotations from other sources of
supply or other criteria acceptable to the Association; (iii) the
cost of production shall be determined on the basis of accounting
principles acceptable to the Borrower and the Association; (iv)
the system of recording production costs shall be acceptable to
the Association; (v) such procurement shall not exceed an aggre-
gate of $250,000 equivalent; and (vi) applications for withdrawal
of Credit proceeds on account of items so procured shall be made
by way of proforma invoices.
(5) Contracts for works  shall be awarded on the basis of
local competitive -bidding in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association.


﻿- 14 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of US$50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, BTMC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Association shall reason-
ably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents
shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, BTMC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform BTMC and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, BTMC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such


﻿- 15 -
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform BTMC and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, BTMC shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform BTMC and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198  .
FOR SECRETARY


