Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2058 KE
          (Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                       CENTRAL BANK OF KENYA
                        Dated July 12, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2058 KE
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  July   12,   1989,  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)  and  CENTRAL  BANK OF
KENYA (CBK).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Kenya (the Borrower) and the Associa-
tion, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies  equivalent to three million eight
hundred    seventy-one    thousand    Special    Drawing    Rights
(SDR 3,871,000), on  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that CBK agree
to undertake such obligations  toward  the  Association as are set
forth in this Agreement; and
     (B)  WHEREAS  CBK,  in  consideration  of  the  Association's
entering into the Development  Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has  agreed  to  undertake  the  obligations  set  forth  in  this
Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. CBK declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to  this  end,  shall  carry out the Project
with due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appro-
priate   administrative,   financial,   banking   and  engineering
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. CBK shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03 through 9.08  of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use  of  goods  and  services,  plans and schedules,
records   and   reports,   maintenance   and   land   acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04. (a) CBK shall,  at  the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange  views  with  the  Association  with  regard to the
progress of the Project, the  performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters  relating  to the purposes of the
Credit.
     (b)  CBK shall promptly inform  the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment  of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by CBK of its obligations under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of CBK
     Section 3.01. CBK shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
banking  practices  under   the   supervision   of  qualified  and
experienced management  assisted  by  competent  staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. CBK shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all  in  accordance  with  sound  banking,  financial and
engineering practices.
     Section 3.03. CBK shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other  provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such  risks  and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
Page  3
     Section 4.01. (a)  CBK  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  CBK shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   including  the  Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate  auditing  principles consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such  year  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of CBK  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with  its  terms  before  the  date  specified in para-
graph (a) (ii)  of  this  Section,  the Association shall promptly
notify CBK of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
Page  4
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                       Telex:
          INDEVAS                                440098 (ITT)
          Washington, D.C.                       248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For CBK:
          P.O. Box 60000
          Nairobi
          Kenya
          Cable address:                       Telex:
                                                 22324
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of CBK,  or  by  CBK on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit  Agreement,  may be taken or executed
by the Governor of  CBK  or  such  other  person or persons as the
Governor of CBK shall designate  in writing, and CBK shall furnish
to the Association sufficient  evidence  of  the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    CENTRAL BANK OF KENYA
                    By /s/ D. D. Afande
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
Page  5
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   (a)  To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment shall
be grouped in bid  packages  estimated  to  cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more each.
     (b)  Bidding packages  for  vehicles  and  equipment shall be
prepared on an annual basis.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, CBK may grant a margin of preference
to domestic contractors in  accordance  with,  and subject to, the
provisions of  paragraphs  2.55  and  2.56  of  the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Contracts for vehicles  and  equipment  may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with  procedures  satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   (a)  With respect to each contract for vehicles and equipment
estimated to cost the  equivalent  of  $50,000 or more, the proce-
dures set forth  in  paragraphs  2  and  4  of  Appendix  1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two  conformed  copies of the contract required
to be furnished to  the  Association  pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to  the  Association prior to the making of
the first payment out of  the  Special  Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (a) (ii) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist CBK in carrying out the Project, CBK shall
employ banking  and  financial  consultants  whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be selected in
accordance with  principles  and  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers  and  by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Page  6
