Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
Report No.:      19955
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
HEALTH IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2348-EG)
December 17, 1999
Human Development 2
Africa Region
This Document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance ofl
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: CFA Francs (XAF)
US$1.00    = CFAF 263 (1992)
US$1.00    = CFAF 288 (1993)
US$1.00       CFAF 536 (1994)
US$1.00    = CFAF 512 (1995)
US$1.00    = CFAF 512 (1996)
US$1.00    = CFAF 583 (1997)
US$1.00    = CFAF 590 (1998)
MEASURES
I m        = 1.09 yd
Im2       = 10.76 sq ft
I km2      = 0.38 sq mi
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFU            Administrative and Financial Unit
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
DRF            Drug Revolving Fund
BMIS           Health Management Information System
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
MC             Managing Committee
MCH / FP       Maternal and Child Health / Family Planning
MOH            Ministry of Health
MTR            Mid - Tenn Review
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
PHC            Primary Health Care
PROMESSA       (Proyecto de Mejoramiento del Sector Salud)
Health Improvement Project
PU             Planning Unit
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
STD            Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TA             Technical Assistance
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA          United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
WHO            World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Vice President   : Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFRVP
Country Director    : Serge Michailof, AFC07
Sector Manager   : Nicholas Burnett, AFTH2
Cluster Leader   : Michele Lioy, AFTH2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
HEALTH IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CR. 2348-EG)
CONTENTS
PREFACE  ..............................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ............................................................. ii
PART I.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives ..................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ..................................................2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................7
D. Project Sustainability ..................................................9
E. Bank Performance ...................                                            10
F. Borrower Performance ...................                                       11
G. Assessment of Outcomes ...................                                     12
H. Future Operation ...................                                           13
I. Key Lessons Learned ...................                                        13
PART II.   STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .15
Table 2: Related Bank Credits .16
Table 3: Project Timetable .16
Table 4:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .               17
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation .17
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .18
Table 8A.1:Project Costs by component             ..................................... 19
Table 8A.2: Project Costs by category           ........................................ 20
Table 8B:  Project Financing ............................................         21
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ............................................   21
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ............................................  22
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ......................... 28
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .................................  ........... 28
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ............................................  29
Appendices:   A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C. Map of Equatorial Guinea
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
HEALTH IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CR. 2348-EG)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Health Improvement
Project in Equatorial Guinea (EQG), for which Credit 2348-EG in the amount of SDR 3.9
million (US$5.5million) was approved on March 26, 1992 and made effective on
September 15, 1992.
The Credit was extended twice from the original closing date of December 31,
1996. The final closing date is August 31, 1999. Final disbursement took place on
December 9, 1999, at which time a balance of US$1,119,298.60 (SDR 812,375.19) was
canceled. The project did not involve any cofinancing.
The ICR was prepared by Seung-Hee F. Lee (AFTH2) and Michele Lioy, Health
Cluster Leader (AFTH2) on the basis of a draft written by Carlos M. Sarmiento
(Consultant) and Wendy Ravaonoromalala, Health and Population Specialist (AFTH2)
who led the ICR mission, and comments from Angelika Pradel, Task Manager (July 1998
-May 1999). Myrina McCullough (AFHT2) and Eavan O'Halloran (ATC07) assisted
with its preparation. It was reviewed by Nicholas Burnett, Sector Manager (AFTH2) and
Serge Michailof, Country Director for Equatorial Guinea (AFC07). The Borrower
contributed to the report by providing its own evaluation of the project (see Appendix B)
and by commenting on the Bank's evaluation. These comments are incorporated into this
report.
Preparation of this ICR was begun one month before the Bank's ICR mission of
April 1999. It is based on the assessment carried out during the ICR mission, the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Borrower and the Bank, and other relevant material from the
project files.



- ii -
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.  The Health Improvement Project -- Proyecto de Mejoramiento del Sector Salud
(PROMESSA) -- was the first IDA financed health project in EQG. This project was
approved on March 26, 1992, and made effective on September 15, 1992. Two Project
Preparation Facilities (PPF) funds were provided to the Ministry of Health (MOH) in
1988 and 1990 to do a health sector needs assessment that was to be used in designing
this project.
Project Objectives
2.  According to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the project objective was
to strengthen the Borrower's capacity in planning, coordinating and monitoring health
sector activities.  Additionally, according to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
PROMESSA proposed to improve service delivery of priority health programs.
3.   The objectives were to be achieved by implementing the following components: (i)
institutional strengthening of the health sector management capacity at the central level
and at the hospital management level via establishment of managerial units; (ii)
improving MOH's health strategy development and implementation planning capacity by
establishing a health information management system (HMIS); (iii) strengthening priority
health programs through: (a) malaria control; (b) mother and child health/family planning
(MCH/FP); (c) sexually-transmitted diseases (STD) control; and (d) essential drugs. Not
specified in the DCA but included in the SAR, was a fourth component: (iv) developing
human resources by training staff at all levels of the health system.
4.   The objectives were appropriate for the country's needs but the implementation
plan was too complex for the level of institutional capacity of the Borrower. The
implementation plan also relied heavily on the newly created managerial committee
(MC) of the MOH that had no experience in managing a project. Additionally, the
project lacked adequate monitoring indicators. Other weaknesses that were not identified
or were not adequately addressed ultimately adversely affected the project.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.   The overall project outcome was unsatisfactory.  The tangible project
achievements were limited to the construction of four health centers, the extension of the
health school in Bata, and the rehabilitation of MOH buildings and drug warehouses. Yet
at the end of the project, all of these were found to be underutilized and deteriorating.
The project failed to strengthen management capacity at central, regional and delivery
levels. The HMIS never became operational so that the health strategy and decision
capacity at central and decentralized levels of the MOH did not improve. The priority
programs, such as Malaria control, Mother and Child Health/Family Planning (MCH/FP),
and Sexually-Transmitted Diseases (STD) control, received little support from the



- iii -
project. Finally, much resources (US$650,000) were expended in establishing a public
system for essential drug. However, at project close there was a shortage of essential
drugs in the entire public health system which is blamed on the Bank by the Borrower.
6.   Timely and quantified outputs and outcomes that could demonstrate the
achievements were not recorded.  However, secondary data from  the UNICEF
information system show that morbidity and mortality trends and patterns remain almost
identical to those of 1992-1993, the year the project implementation began. Therefore, it
seems that the project had no known positive impact on the overall health status of the
population of EQG.
7.   There were numerous factors that contributed to the poor outcome of this project.
The critical factors were within the control of the two main actors: the Borrower (the
Government/MOH) and the Bank. Conclusive assessments could not be made about the
level of performance of the Bank and Borrower during preparation because of insufficient
information, but available evidence and testimonials suggest that both Bank and
Borrower performances were substandard during preparation. Much more definitive and
critical assessments can be made about their performances during implementation.
8.  Bank performance was negligent during negotiations and supervision. During
negotiations, Bank failed to address the Borrower's inability to pay the counterpart funds,
therefore, the DCA included difficult counterpart fund requirements that effectively
blocked project implementation. Quality of Bank performance was highly unsatisfactory
during project supervision. During supervision missions, poor project performance was
neither addressed nor rectified, and no suggestions (for examples, technical assistance
(TA) or training) were made to improve the management of the project. Furthermore, the
Task Team Leader (TTL) made agreements with the Borrower and did not follow up on
the agreements. Finally, Bank management failed to notice the lapses in project
supervision by the TTL.
9.   Borrower performance was deficient during implementation and non-compliant
of DCA clauses. It was noted by Bank staff and in documents that Borrower capacity
was very low and there is no record that MOH supervised or monitored the project
activities as agreed during implementation. The Borrower failed to employ sufficient
health personnel, did not recruit all the needed advisers, did not have a manual of
procedures, and files and records were not properly kept. Finally, the Borrower had great
difficulty meeting counterpart funding requirements that delayed project effectiveness
and the Borrower's continued inability to meet these requirements during implementation
effectively shut down the project.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10. Very few if any structures were established during the project to ensure
sustainability. There is no evidence of improved health in Equatorial Guinea and the
Borrower is indebted to the Bank for over US$ 4 million. No Bank funded operation is
foreseen in the near future for the health sector in EQG.



- iv -
11.  The following lessons, relevant for health projects everywhere, for other projects in
EQG, and for Bank management, can be learned from the failed Health Improvement
Project.
*  Once a risk has been identified, such as the poor capacity for management and
implementation of the Borrower, adequate TA and institutional support should be
planned and implemented by the project. Although TA is not a panacea, as
underlined by the Borrower, appropriate TA could have been useful. However,
technical assistants should work in close collaboration with and transfer skills to
qualified national counterparts/experts who are committed to the success of the
project. As this was the first IDA-financed health project in EQG, the project
administration or project implementation unit's need for TA should have been
better assessed and appropriate TA provided and committed counterparts should
have been identified during project preparation.
*  As much as possible, the project implementation team should be staffed by the
same people as the preparation team to ensure ownership of the project. The
same people from the Ministry should be involved in the project during all stages
of project development and implementation. Good plans developed during
preparation were not implemented because the implementers did not take
ownership of the plans. Good plans are not enough for success without proper
follow-up.
*  Effective and adequate supervision by Bank staff is as vital to the success of a
project as a good appraisal. Although the preparation seems to have included
MOH staff and addressed possible risks, intensive supervision, as indicated in
SAR, should have been provided to address quickly and appropriately difficulties
in implementation, especially with a project of this complexity and a Borrower
with weak capacity.
*  The continued lack of reaction by Bank management to the lapses in project
supervision by the TTL indicates an institutional weakness of the Bank. Bank
management needs to monitor better its staff. The credibility of the Bank has
been severely compromised in EQG by the unmonitored activities of the TTL. As
indicated, the Borrower still holds the Bank accountable for some of the
inappropriate agreements made by the TTL.
*  Counterpart funds should be negotiated on realistic terms. Unrealistic demands
that could not be fulfilled led to disbursement suspensions that impeded this
project critically.
*  Good indicators and reports are needed to monitor and evaluate project activities.
Obtaining the baseline data for these indicators should be included in the
preparation of the project and monitoring of these indicators should be an
integrated activity during supervision of the project. Accurate assessment of the
impact of this project was virtually impossible.



- v -
Physical rehabilitation or construction of health centers will not necessary lead to
better or more service delivery. The four health centers built did not change the
practices of the population to seek quality health service elsewhere. None of the
civil-works made an observable impact on the health sector. The Borrower must
realize the importance of training and capacity building for improving health
services rather than rely solely on physical construction.  Additionally, the
Borrower must also consider numerous other factors that affect service delivery.
Some other factors are motivation of personnel, location and hours of operation of
health centers, availability of drugs and quality of services offered.






EQUATORIAL GUINEA
HEALTH IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CR. 2348-EG)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.  The objective of the Health Improvement Project in Equatorial Guinea -- Proyecto
de Mejoramiento del Sector Salud (PROMESSA) -- was to strengthen the Borrower's
capacity in planning, coordinating and monitoring health sector activities. Additionally,
PROMESSA aimed at improving service delivery of priority health programs. The
project was the main instrument for achieving the Borrower's new national strategy for
the health sector, which was developed during the project preparation period and which
focused on delivering primary health care to all.
2.  The objectives were to be accomplished by implementing the following
components:
(i) institutional strengthening of the health sector management capacity at the central
level (health policies, planning and coordination of health sector activities and
investments, decentralization, accounting and management) and at the hospital
management level by establishment of managerial units in the Ministry of Health
(MOH) -- the Managing Committee (MC), the Planning Unit (PU), the
Administrative and Financial Unit (AFU);
(ii) improving MOH's health strategy development and implementation planning
capacity by establishing a health management information system (HMIS);
(iii) strengthening priority health programs: (a) malaria control, including training and
vector control; (b) mother and child health/family planning (MCH/FP), including
the construction of four health centers and provision of technical and management
training and equipment; (c) control of sexually transmitted diseases (STD) by
establishing a national STD control center in Bata; (d) provision of essential drugs
by establishing a more sustainable drug supply via the introduction of a cost
recovery system, a central drug supply unit and a therapeutic committee.
Not specified in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) but included in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), was a fourth component:
(iv) developing human resources by training staff at all levels of the health system.
The training activities were integrated into the other three components of the
project.



-2-
3.   The objectives and components of the project were not changed during project
implementation. There was no retrofitting of the objectives during the mid-term review
(MTR) which had been indicated as a possibility in the SAR.
4.   Based on the assumption that MOH's weak capacity for management and
implementation was the key obstacle to the delivery of adequate health services, the
project planned to mitigate this weakness by creating managerial committees within the
MOH and by recommending intensive technical assistance to compensate for the
weakness and to assist in the increased delivery of services in key sub-sectors.
5.  Assessment of Project Objectives: The objectives were appropriate for the
country's needs but the implementation plan was too complex for the level of institutional
capacity of the Borrower. Although the SAR claimed to mitigate the risk implied by the
low capacity of the Borrower by simplifying the project and by including continuous
technical support during the project, the objectives were ultimately overly ambitious for
the capacities of the Borrower. During pre-appraisal, concern about the scope of the
project, among other issues, was raised within the Bank's review committee and one of
the components (health and nutrition education) was subsequently dropped in an effort to
simplify the project. The implementation plan -- without contingency plans -- also relied
heavily on the newly created Managing Committee (MC) of the MOH that had not yet
proven capable of managing such a complex and comprehensive project.
6.   The project lacked adequate monitoring indicators: indicators for the service
delivery objective (malaria control, MCH/FP, essential drug supply) and for human
resources development were defined but not quantified in the SAR, and there were no
performance indicators for the achievement of the development objectives. The general
national strategic outcome goals outlined in the SAR were quantified, but the link
between the national outcome indicators and the project goals was not established.
Finally, quantitative and more qualitative indicators were added to supervision reports in
1998, but no records exist of these indicators being monitored by the project or by Bank
supervision.
7.  Finally, other weaknesses were not identified or were inadequately addressed that
ultimately adversely affected the project such as lack of ownership of the project by
MOH mid-level and technical staff and insufficient capacity to meet counterpart fund
requirements.
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.   The project's achievements are rated as unsatisfactory. After a period of over
seven years and an investment of US$4.4 million: (i) the institutional strengthening
component was not achieved; (ii) the development and implementation of a health
strategy have not been realized; (iii) the MOH's capacity to deliver priority health
programs is still very weak and appears not to have been strengthened; and (iv) the
development of the health sector's human resources was very limited.



- 3 -
9.  According to the available financial statements, the project spent only about 80
percent of its original credit of SDR 3,900,000 (considered to be equivalent to US$5.5
million at DCA signing. Actual expenditures for civil works, and furniture and equipment
were much higher than the original allocations (165 percent and 108 percent
respectively). They were much lower, on the other hand, for drugs, and consulting
services and training (62 percent and 44 percent respectively). Part of the unallocated
funds -- an amount of SDR171,590 of the original SDR620,000 -- were not utilized. The
balance of the unallocated funds was reallocated to civil works and furniture and
equipment categories. This reallocation appears to have been discussed and authorized
in the field between the Borrower and the Bank supervision staff, which explains the
increased spending in these two categories. Although a reallocation of unallocated funds
to drug purchase was also requested, this was not authorized officially and was ultimately
considered unnecessary. There was disagreement between the Borrower and the Bank on
this, which is further explained in paragraph 20.
10. The first component -- strengthening institutional capacity of health sector
management -- was not achieved. This component was composed of three sub-
components: the creation and operation of core units in the MOH, the general support of
MOH, and the improved management of the two major hospitals.
According to the SAR, the managing committee (MC) was formned and
functioning during project preparation under a PPF advance. However after the
mid-term review (MTR), records of any activities of the MC ceased to exist
despite the fact that the MC was to be the core managerial and strategic planning
unit for MOH and the project itself.  Additionally, it is unclear if the
administrative and financial unit (AFU) was ever staffed. The MC, the planning
unit (PU) and the AFU seem not to have functioned continuously during the life
of the project as agreed in the DCA.
* PROMESSA financed some questionable (low quality and low priority) civil-
works and procurement of vehicles and other equipment for MOH that were either
misused and/or ill-maintained. The project did some rehabilitation work on the
MOH central building in Malabo in 1993-1994 but, by credit closing, the building
still had structural weaknesses, which caused it to be flooded during heavy rains.
In Bata, the project financed the expansion of regional delegation offices to
include two rooms that were needed for the project and also an office for the
exclusive use of the Minister during his infrequent visits on the continent. The
project also supplied the MOH with office furniture and equipment, whose
location and present condition were not recorded and records of purchase were
not available. Some of the furniture and equipment found on-site during the ICR
mission were identified with World Bank labels but again, without any inventory
documents, these items could not be verified as part of the project procurement.
During its life, the project provided MOH with 13 vehicles of which only 5 were
seen during the ICR mission. During supervision missions, the Bank staff raised
questions about the use of the vehicles for non-project use : MOH confirmed that
vehicles were being used only for the project, however, only one was seen by the
ICR mission team remained for project use.



-4-
* No evidence was available that the two major hospitals of Malabo and Bata
received any systematic technical assistance (TA) from the project that could have
led to financial and management autonomy. The project also reported that it
supplied 1000 mattresses for public hospitals, some of which were found in these
two hospitals visited by the mission. But no inventory was available.
*  Additionally, PROMESSA was responsible for the coordination of existing donor
programs (WHO, Spain, France, UNICEF and UNFPA) to avoid duplication.
However, by the end of the project, there had been almost no coordination of
activities initiated by the project with these agencies.
11. The second component -- the development of a health strategy and its
implementation by establishing a HMIS -- was not achieved. The Planning Unit (PU) at
the MOH was created in 1994 and staffed including an HMIS director who designed a
well-structured prograrn to set up an HMIS. However, no evidence was available that
indicates that PROMESSA supplied the resources and support needed for the system to
become operational. According to MOH technicians and the HMIS director, the support
was not provided because of frequent turnover of policy-makers in the upper echelons of
MOH that needed to make key decisions concerning the implementation of HMIS. At
the end of the project, the HMIS was unable to collect, process, or analyze health data
due to lack of support. The only equipment observed by the ICR mission was a
typewriter, which may or may not have been purchased with project funds.
12. The third component -- strengthening priority health programs -- was achieved
only in regard to questionable civil-works for one of the four targeted programs. The
construction was of non-priority items and inappropriately expensive. (See the third
point below.) None of the priority programs seem to have had any known impact on the
health status of the Equato-Guineans.
* The first program, "Malaria Control," did not receive consistent or medium and
long-term support from the project, lacked coordination with other programs and
showed no visible impact on the population's health status. (a) Before the MTR,
the project presumably supplied health centers with 25 microscopes and basic
equipment for malaria control, but their location and physical inventory were not
available to the ICR mission. The ICR mission did observe few examples of said
microscopes during field visits but could not, however, verify the presence of all
25. Technical assistance financed by the project was used very little. For
instance, the services of a malariologist were used for two months instead of the
twelve months projected in the SAR. No further support was given to this
program by the project after 1995. (b) The Malaria Technical Assistance Project,
financed by the Spanish Government, and which was on-going during
PROMESSA project life, was not informed of the support given by the
PROMESSA to this program. (This is another evidence that PROMESSA did not
coordinate with other donors as required.) (c) Strong evidence of endemic
malaria still persists on Bioko Island where the program was to be piloted. At the
end of the project, malaria due to Plasmodium Falciparum was severe; 75 percent
of existing cases were resistant to Chloroquine; and malaria was responsible for



-5-
38 percent of the morbidity of children under 5, and 34 percent of the morbidity
among the general population on Bioko, according to data collected by University
of Madrid.
* The second program, "Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning" (MCH/FP),
which included the construction and equipment of four health centers and
technical and management training, was partially completed. The four MCH/FP
centers were constructed in Beayop (Micomeseng District), Oveng and Ngolosoc
(Acurenarn District) and Mongomeyen (Mongomo District). They were not
finished until 1997. The selection criteria for the location of these centers were
more political than technical or epidemiological, which contributed to their
current low utilization and their higher than expected construction cost. The
construction cost estimated in the SAR was US$80,000 per unit, but the actual
cost was $228,841 per health center, which can be partially accounted for by the
geographical remoteness of the health centers. The cost estimates were based on
more accessible locations than were actually chosen during implementation. The
centers and the quarters for the directors of each center were also unnecessarily
expensively equipped (e.g. the clinics are equipped with orthopedic beds and
imported tiles from Spain). The existence and operation of the health centers
which lack medical supplies have not reduced the incidences of local community
members seeking medical attention in the district hospital or even in neighboring
countries. The centers have already begun deteriorating physically and have an
unsustainably low level of activity. The rate was around 1.1 patients/day over a
15-month period for one of the centers, according to the health center's log sheet
from 1997 to 1998.
The third program, establishment of a national STD control center in Bata, may
have been completed, but it is no longer operational. According to the SAR, the
STD control center did not exist and needed to be established. But MOH staff
stated that a center had been functioning with support from other donors and that
these donors withdrew their support in anticipation of support from PROMESSA.
The project did not provide adequate support, therefore, the center was not in
operation at project close. Preparation and publication of a useful booklet on
treatment of STDs was financed by the project and was reported to be in use in
health clinics in 1995. Copies were observed in clinics by the ICR mission. A
clinical survey performed by WHO among young adults in 1997 showed that a
very high percentage of them have STD symptoms. The method of survey used is
not known.
* The fourth program, essential drugs, including (i) the establishment of a more
sustainable drug supply by introduction of a cost-recovery system, (ii) a central
drug supply unit, and (iii) a therapeutic committee that would establish norms and
minimum quality standards for imported drugs and for the training of local
pharmacists was not successful.
(a) The PROMESSA project disbursed approximately US$400,000 for drug
purchases and US$250,000 for warehouse rehabilitation and equipment to



- 6 -
protect the drugs. At the end of the project, the drug warehouses in Malabo
and Bata were practically empty, and there were no power generators or air
cooling systems to protect drugs from high temperatures and humidity.
Moreover, in spite of the high investment in warehouse rehabilitation, the
physical conditions of the Malabo warehouses and the project offices, which
are in the warehouses, were well below acceptable standards. The Bata
warehouse was in an acceptable condition.
(b) During project preparation, Drug Revolving Fund (DRF) procedural
guidelines  were  written  for the  cost-recovery  program.   Under
implementation, however, the fund was not managed according to the plan,
or to generally accepted management procedures, which resulted in high risk
of financial fraud and misuse., There are also no reliable accounts of drug
sales or revenues, and funds were deposited in a bank account separate from
other project accounts. The ICR mission had trouble obtaining pertinent and
objective information on this separate account. The mission also heard
contradictory statements about mark-ups on drug sales: although financial
statements tend to indicate that drugs were sold at purchasing price, sources
who worked in the pharmaceutical unit of the MOH claim drugs were sold
with a 30-50 percent mark-up.
(c) Before the MTR, the Therapeutic Committee produced and published, with
project support, the National Essential Drugs List, revised in August 1996,
covering the three health service levels -- primary, secondary and tertiary
(hospital). However, the Therapeutic Committee has not met since 1995 and
is no longer functioning because of lack of financial support from the project.
The MOH Pharmacy Directorate did not participate in project
implementation with the result that, during emergency epidemic situations,
drugs were purchased by the project unit without technical advice from MOH
or WHO, thereby inflating inventories of some drugs to levels greater than a
normal 10-year consumption rate (e.g. ringher lactate and glucosaline
solution). These drugs were destroyed after expiration. The total amounts of
drugs destroyed are unknown and the figures in the final audit are not
reliable. The lack of collaboration between the project and the MOH's
pharmacy unit was a continuous problem and, according to MOH staff, there
was little or no support of this unit since 1995.
13. The fourth component, human resource development, was partially achieved. A
1996 supervision report recorded that 50 nurses, 40 traditional birth attendants and 18
hospital administrators were trained. Furthermore, the ICR mission learned from
available records and from the MOH staff that two training courses for mid-level
administrators were held in 1993 and 1997 and one training course for pharmacy
administrators was held in 1998. Records about training courses such as curricula,
participant lists, current status of participants are not complete and, therefore, total
number of participants and curricula are unknown. For the MCH/FP program two
auxiliary nursing courses took place (in Malabo and Bata in 1998) which trained an
additional 97 nurses; however, four other similar courses planned by the MOH human



- 7 -
resources department were not carried out. It is unclear if the training had any positive
effect on the quality of health services and whether the trained nurses are still serving the
communities. Based on anecdotal evidence, it is unlikely that the trained staff members
have remained in the same communities. Also according to the director of planning of
MOH, he requested training courses in early 1997 for high level MOH staff but these
courses were not provided. Finally, the National School of Health building in Bata was
extended for the purpose of increasing its capacity to train more health staff, but the
extension has not been used or equipped since its construction in 1997. The physical
extension was not necessary as there were very few training courses that occurred even
before the extension. Since the extension, there has been no financial support for the
school and the courses have ceased. According to the SAR, the rehabilitation of this
school was to be coordinated by the Spanish aid mission and the project planned to
utilized the school for some of its programmed training. The project did not follow-up
with the training courses and it is unknown what became of the Spanish support with
whom the ICR mission did not meet.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
14. There were numerous factors that contributed to the poor outcome of this project.
The critical factors were the responsibility of the two main actors: the Borrower (the
Government/MOH) and Bank staff.
15. Project Financing: Although the Bank noted the high possibility of the Borrower
not being able to meet its counterpart funding requirements based on experience from
previous agreements between the Borrower and the Bank and other donors, the DCA
included difficult counterpart fund requirements. The total cost of the project was
estimated to be US$6 million, and the Borrower was expected to provide US$500,000
(see the financing plan in Annex: Table 8B). Yet, according to the DCA, the Borrower's
financial responsibilities included the annual payment of counterpart funds of "at least
CFAF 150.8 million (about US$ 270,000) in four quarterly installments of CFAF
37,700,000 to cover incremental costs and increases in operating costs in the Ministry as
a whole. The SAR states that the counterpart fund requirements were based on a
"structural increase of CFAF 115 million (about US$400,000 equivalent) in the budget of
MOH" and "an additional US$500,000 (or about US$125,000 annually) to cover [the
Government's] share of the project incremental recurrent costs." These calculations and
rationale differ from normal practices: it is unusual to include the structural increase to
MOH budget into the project counterpart funds and US$500,000 does not equal
US$125,000 annually since the project was planned to last 6 years according to the SAR.
(However, the DCA recorded that the "project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1996" -- an unrealistic 4 years - which would account for the calculation of US$500,000
being US$125,000 per annum.) Based on these assumptions, the counterpart fund
requirements of CFAF 150.8 million (approximately US$525,000) per year was
determined. Additionally, the Borrower was responsible for the co-financing of drug
purchases (at 10 percent through December 31, 1994, and at 40 percent thereafter), and
incremental operating costs (at 10 percent through December 31, 1993, 40 percent
through December 31, 1995, and 70 percent thereafter) which included the project staff
salaries.



8-
16. Counterpart Funds: The lack of provision of counterpart funds effectively
blocked project implementation. The Borrower paid its counterpart funds only once --
for the first quarter of the project -- and still owes its share of 10 percent and 40 percent
to the drug suppliers. It recently paid its share of the staff salaries (70 percent) for the
period from April to December 1998 after a request from the Bank to fulfill this
commitment as part of the closing procedures. The counterpart funds were intended to
cover "incremental operating costs" according to Schedule 1 of the DCA so, in their
absence, the project was in perpetual deficit and could not cover its recurrent costs or
pay the project staff. In addition, the Borrower's delays in paying its arrears to the Bank
led to frequent country-wide disbursement suspensions that impeded project
implementation.
17. Although situations outside the Borrower's control - such as the devaluation of the
CFA franc in early 1993 and the unstable political situation in EQG in 1995- contributed
to the Borrower's inability to provide the counterpart funds and arrears, the situation was
not remedied once EQG began earning oil revenue in 1996 and was in a position to pay
its arrears to the Bank.
18. Institutional Set-Up: Contrary to what was recorded in the SAR, the project was
not viewed as an integral part of the MOH or as bringing resources and investments to the
health sector by the MOH's technical managers and by the international assistance
community such as UNICEF, WHO, France and Spain. Reinforcing this lack of
ownership by MOH, the project was managed by staff outside the MOH. According to
the DCA, the project should have been managed by the Managing Committee with the
MOH Secretary General as chairman. However, this committee was not operational and
instead the project was managed by the project administrator himself. Although he was
supposed to report directly to the Secretary-General of the MOH, each project
administrator managed the project independently of MOH.  Implementation plans
developed during preparation were not followed: for example, a technical assistance
expert and MOH staff developed several well-designed procedural documents (especially
those related to the Drug Revolving Fund (DRF) management) but these documents were
not complied with by the project administrators during implementation. The Borrower
also did not fully utilize the on-site technical assistance which was to mitigate the low
capacity for management as planned in the SAR, e.g. the utilization of the international
malariologist for fewer than allocated months. Technical assistance from international
donors was widely available but the project was reluctant to request the technical
assistance even though it was a key component of the project plan and budget.
Unfortunately, as noted by the Borrower, when international technical assistance was
utilized, it was not done in collaboration with local staff and appropriate knowledge and
skills were not transferred to local counterparts.
19. Furthermore the high turnover of the Borrower's staff (7 Health Ministers, 5 MOH
General Secretaries, and 3 Project Administrators in 7 years of the project's life)
undermined consistency and continuity of the project and diluted any ownership of the
project by MOH that may have existed. The turnover also added many delays to
decision-making that effectively shut down key components.



- 9 -
20. Management and Communication Problems: There were many lapses in
communication between the Bank and the Borrower during the life of the project, which
led to implementation delays and hampered project performance. There were also some
serious breaches of Bank procedure by the Task Team Leader (TTL), which caused great
confusion and many problems. Due to the difficulty that the Borrower was facing in
meeting its financial requirements as outlined in the DCA, in March 1994 the TTL
granted a one-year waiver of the counterpart obligation and also allowed that the
revenues from drug sales be used as counterpart funds. These arrangements represented
substantial changes from the obligations outlined in the DCA and, according to Bank
procedures, required formal amendments to the DCA. However, this formal amendment
to the DCA was never processed by the TTL and, therefore, it never became effective.
However, the Borrower assumed it was effective, which created much resentment on the
Borrower's part when it became apparent that the arrangements could not be
implemented. The Borrower also had continued problems with processing Withdrawal
Applications (WA) due to poor knowledge of Bank procedures by the project staff and to
lack of proper support and guidance from the TTL. In 1997, after almost five years of
inability to execute WAs causing a total drug shortage in the country's public health
sector, the project redesigned the revolving fund procedures and requested a reallocation
of US$200,000 from the unallocated budget for drug purchases and Bank financing of
100 percent of the drug purchase. This was again accepted by the TTL without duly
amending the DCA. Based on this agreement with the TTL, the Borrower believed that
the Bank would fund 100 percent of the drug purchases: this was contrary to the
conditions stated in the DCA which specified that the country would cover 40 percent of
this category after 1994. The Borrower did not realize that the Bank had not agreed
formally to these changes (the TTL did not process an amendment to the DCA). The
Bank, therefore, was legally blocked from providing the 100 percent financing. To date,
the Borrower contends that the Bank is responsible for the drug shortage in the country,
as the Bank did not comply with the agreement made with the TTL.
21. Moreover, there were physical difficulties such as the frequently non-functioning
telecommunications system in EQG that contributed to the lack of prompt
communication between the two main actors that impeded project implementation.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22. Very few if any structures were established by the project to ensure sustainability.
The absence of an operating HMIS at central level hinders the decision-making process.
Central staff were not trained in management, and decentralized management still
requires capacity building. No sustainable public system for essential drugs was
developed. In fact, at project close there was a shortage of essential drugs in the entire
public health system. As stated previously, the four health centers built by the project are
barely operational with insufficient supplies and low utility and similarly, the extended
Bata health school has not been used since 1997. There is evidence that over 200 health
personnel took courses organized and paid by the project, however, no records were
found concerning the quality of training or the current competence of the trained staff
(See paragraph 13).



- 10 -
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
23.  Overall, Bank perfornance is rated as unsatisfactory at nearly all stages of the
project life-cycle. Despite the fact that it was difficult to assess Bank performance during
identification, preparation, and supervision stages because the ICR team was unable to
interview most of the various team members responsible for these, it can be concluded,
without a doubt, that Bank performance was at best negligent and at worst highly
unsatisfactory.
24. A review of Bank documents indicates that the preparation team worked with
MOH, other donors in EQG, and peer reviewers at the Bank. It is recorded that Bank
staff expressed reserved satisfaction with the appraisal documents. Identification and
preparation correctly focused on the most relevant health problems affecting the
population of EQG. The SAR, appeared to be of acceptable quality, identified most of
the major risks, and attempted to mitigate them: however it outlined no contingency plans
or adequate indicators as noted in paragraph 5. These and other deficiencies, in particular
the unusual and unrealistic calculation of counterpart fund requirements, indicate that the
project could have been better prepared. The Bank's performance during negotiations can
also be determined to be unsatisfactory from available documents. Although the Bank
noted the high possibility of the Borrower not being able to meet its counterpart funding
requirements, the DCA included difficult counterpart fund requirements that effectively
blocked project implementation (see paragraph 15). This negative assessment was
collaborated during interviews with members of the SAR review committee and appraisal
team who felt that the project had been rushed to meet the Bank's internal administrative
deadline.
25.  The quality of Bank performance was highly unsatisfactory during project
supervision. As shown in Table 13, for most years only one supervision mission was
carried out by the TTL. Out of nine supervision missions performed during the project's
life, eight were performed solely by the TTL. The ninth mission, carried out in 1998 with
technical support from LOAAF, was the first one that identified many irregularities.
Given the diagnosed weak institutional capacity of the Borrower, the Bank should have
provided more frequent technical, legal and financial support to identify problems
quickly and advise appropriate solutions as suggested in the SAR. Annual reviews of
health sector investment expenditures was requested in the DCA but the TTL did not
request them during his supervision missions. Agreements reached during supervision
were not followed up on; poor project performance was rarely addressed and, when
addressed, was not formally rectified; and no technical assistance was suggested to
improve project management during the annual supervision missions and MTR. The
project status reports consistently rated the project as satisfactory and were similar
throughout several years even though lack of counterpart funding and other problems
remained unresolved. The TTL also did not follow the Bank procedures, which caused
serious negative impacts on the project as explained in paragraph 20.
26. Bank management failed to notice the serious lapses in project supervision by the
TTL who was responsible during the majority of the project's life. Bank management
did not discern the numerous shortcomings of the supervision by the TTL or detect the



- 11 -
misguided advice given by TTL as recorded on supervision reports. Many problems
were mentioned in the supervision reports, but the project was still rated as satisfactory.
This contradiction in the rating and the assessment should have caused concern.
Although there was only one TTL from identification in 1988 until July 1998, there was
high turnover of Bank management as evident in the various supervision reports that
were signed off by at least five different managers during the life of the project that
contributed to the lack of adequate oversight of the TTL's performance.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
27. It is difficult to assess the Borrower performance conclusively during the
preparation stages of the project without input from previous Bank TTLs. However, it is
evident that Borrower performance was deficient during implementation and was non-
compliant with DCA clauses.
28. Appraisal and SAR review team members questioned the readiness of the Borrower
to implement this rather complicated project and noted that the low capacity of the
Borrower during all stages of preparation was a problem. During preparation, MOH staff
participated in project design and start-up activities under two Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) advances.  The two PPF advances granted totaled US$750,000:
US$500,000 in 1988 and US$250,000 in 1990. This total amount seems to be excessive
since it represents one fifth of the total credit amount and the impact of these advances is
unclear. Of the 1988 amount of $500,000, $207,000 was earmarked for a joint
Bank/UNDP/WHO malaria control project. PROMESSA's malaria control activities
were to be implemented by the same unit that also implemented this joint
Bank/UJNDP/WHO project. The remaining $293,000 was to cover several activities
including: 1) studies on (a) the institutional framework of the sector including the
organization and functioning of the MOH, (b) training needs for the health staff, (c) the
prevalence of malaria in the general population and the nesting and breeding sites of the
mosquito vector of malaria; 2) an inventory of health facilities and the assessment of
rehabilitation needs, 3) a review of the Malabo and Bata hospitals' finances and
operation; and 4) support for the project unit. According to a memo of May 1990
requesting a supplemental PPF advance, these studies were being carried out. The
additional US$250,000 was requested and granted for: 1) continued support of the project
unit (including the salary of the expatriate administrator), 2) consultant services to
prepare the recommendations and an action plan for limited cost recovery at the main
hospitals of Malabo and Bata; and 3) proposals for the storage and distribution of
essential drugs to project-financed health centers. Although most of the studies have not
been recovered, some activities could be linked to these studies: the re-organization of the
MOH which was an effectiveness conditionality can be assumed to have been a result of
one of the studies: the inventory must have contributed to the project plan for
rehabilitation and the DRF plan was observed as well-planned and detailed. The project
administrator during preparation was an expatriate who provided valuable technical
assistance funded by the PPF advance. Although it is evident that some of the studies
were carried out, it is unclear how many of the studies were completed. But it is also
clear that none had any impact after preparation (See table 7).



- 12 -
29. During implementation, there is no record that MOH supervised or monitored the
project activities as agreed in the SAR and DCA. The Borrower failed to employ
sufficient health personnel and did not recruit all the needed advisers as agreed.
Therefore, the Borrower could not ensure appropriate technical levels in management,
administrative or financial practices and, at project close, there was no accuracy in the
project records. For instance, there was no accurate accounting of project assets and
physical inventories. The project did not have a manual of procedures, the human
resources management was highly deficient, and files and records were not properly kept.
Annual audits required by the DCA were often delayed so that a multi-year audit was
required: there were three audits completed during the life of the project (one for 1993,
one for 1994, 1995 & 1996, and one for 1997). The final audit covering 1998 and part of
1999 was received late in December 1999. The auditors (an international firm) have
been unable to express an opinion on the state of the project financial situation since
1993. Moreover, the non-reliability of drug inventories and recorded sales led to the
1997, 1998 and 1999 audits containing a disclaimer. Despite recurrent recommendations
and agreements reached during supervision missions, the project's bank accounts,
particularly the Special Account opened in a commercial bank, were not managed under
the terms and conditions of Schedule 4 of the DCA.
30. Finally, the Borrower's non-compliance with counterpart funding requirements,
which delayed effectiveness, continued during implementation which had dire effects on
the project (See paragraphs 16 & 17).
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
31.  The overall project outcome is highly unsatisfactory.  The tangible project
achievements were limited to the construction of four health centers, the extension of the
health school in Bata, and the rehabilitation of MOH buildings and drug warehouses. Yet
at the end of the project, all of these were found to be underutilized and deteriorating.
The project failed to strengthen management capacity at central, regional and delivery
levels, including in the major hospitals. The HMIS never became operational so that the
health strategy and decision capacity at central and decentralized levels of the MOH did
not improve. The priority programs, Malaria control, Mother Child Health/Family
Planning (MCH/FP) and Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD), received little support
from the project. Furthermore, there is little evidence that the project support had any
effect on these programs.
32. Timely and quantifiable outputs and outcomes that could demonstrate the
achievements were not recorded. Performance indicators monitored during the mid-term
review in November 1995 were mostly qualitative. Trends in morbidity and mortality
could not be assessed since the unique source of monitoring was the 1994 census results
published in November 1997. However, secondary data from the UNICEF information
system show that morbidity and mortality trends and patterns remain almost identical to
those of 1992 the year the project implementation began. Therefore, it seems that the
project had no known positive impact on the overall health status of the population of
EQG.



- 13 -
H.  FUTURE OPERATION
33. No Bank funded operation is foreseen in the near future for the health sector in
EQG.
I.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
34.  The following lessons, relevant for health projects everywhere, for other projects in
EQG and for Bank management, can be drawn from the failed Health Improvement
Project.
*  Once a risk has been identified, such as the poor capacity for management and
implementation of the Borrower, adequate TA and institutional support should be
planned and implemented by the project. Although TA is not a panacea, as
underlined by the Borrower, appropriate TA could have been useful. However,
technical assistants should work in close collaboration with and transfer skills to
qualified national counterparts/experts who are committed to the success of the
project. As this was the first IDA-financed health project in EQG, the project
administration or project implementation unit's need for TA should have been
better assessed and appropriate TA provided and committed counterparts should
have been identified during project preparation.
*  As much as possible, the project implementation team should be staffed by the
same people as the preparation team to ensure ownership of the project. The
same people from the Ministry should be involved in the project during all stages
of project development and implementation. Good plans developed during
preparation were not implemented because the implementers did not take
ownership of the plans. Good plans are not enough for success without proper
follow-up.
-  Effective and adequate supervision by Bank staff is as vital to the success of a
project as a good appraisal. Although the preparation seem to have included
MOH staff and addressed possible risks, intensive supervision, as indicated in
SAR, should have been provided to address quickly and appropriately difficulties
in implementation, especially with a project of this complexity and a Borrower
with weak capacity.
*  The continued lack of reaction by Bank management to the lapses in project
supervision by the TTL indicates an institutional weakness of the Bank. Bank
management needs to monitor better its staff. The credibility of the Bank has
been severely compromised in EQG by the unmonitored activities of the TTL. As
indicated, the Borrower still holds the Bank accountable for some of the
inappropriate agreements made by the TTL.
*  Counterpart funds should be negotiated on realistic terms. Unrealistic demands
that could not be fulfilled led to disbursement suspensions that impeded this
project critically.



- 14 -
* Good indicators and reports are needed to monitor and evaluate project activities.
Obtaining the baseline data for these indicators should be included in the
preparation of the project and monitoring of these indicators should be an
integrated activity during supervision of the project. Accurate assessment of the
impact of this project was virtually impossible.
* Physical rehabilitation or construction of health centers will not necessary lead to
better or more service delivery. The four health centers built did not change the
practices of the population to seek quality health service elsewhere. None of the
civil-works made an observable impact on the health sector. The Borrower must
realize the importance of training and capacity building for improving health
services rather than rely solely on physical construction.  Additionally, the
Borrower must also consider numerous other factors that affect service delivery.
Some other factors are motivation of personnel, location and hours of operation of
health centers, availability of drugs and quality of services offered.



- 15 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of
Objectives                         Substantial  Partial         Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                       [                 I [  ]     I  I           [X]
Sector policies                      [  ]          [  I           [X]            [  I
Financial objectives                 [  ]          [  ]           [X ]           [  I
Institutional development            [  ]          [  ]           [IX            [  ]
Physical objectives                  [  ]          [X]            [  I           I  I
Poverty reduction                    [  ]          [  ]           [  ]           [X]
Gender issues                        []            [3             [3             [X]
Other social objectives              [  ]          [  ]           [  ]           [X]
Environmental objectives             [  ]          [  ]           [  ]           [X 3
Public sector management                               I ]  [  I  [X]            I  ]
Private sector development           [  ]          [              I  I           [X I
Other (specify)                                        I ]   [    I  I           [XI
B. Project Sustainability           Likely                 Unlikely      Uncertain
[ I                  [XI            [I 
C. Bank Performance                 Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                       [  I                  [X            I  I
Preparation Assistance                                        I 3  [  I  [XI
Appraisal                            [                     [  ]          [ X 
Supervision                          [  ]                      ]        [X]
D. Borrower Performance             Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                          [  I                  [  ]           [X]
Implementation                                             [  I          [XI
Covenant Compliance                  [                     [  I          [ X 
E. Assessment of Outcome            Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
[I                    []             [X]



- 16 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Credit Title                       Purpose                      Year of     Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
Not applicable
Following Operations
No operations planned
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned            Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification                                April 4, 1988       December 1988
Preparation                                                       June 1990
Appraisal                                     January 1991        October 17, 1991
Negotiations                                  April 1991          January 27, 1992
Board Presentation                            June/July 1991      March 26, 1992
Signing                                                           April 6, 1992
Effectiveness                                 June 30, 1992       September 15, 1992
Midterm review/Re-launch mission              June 30, 1994       November 11, 1995
Project Completion                            June 30, 1996       December31, 1998
Credit Closing                                December 31, 1998   August 31, 1999



- 17 -
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL (IN US$ THOUSAND)
Fiscal
Year       FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99   FY00    FY01
Appraisal    2.00    3.59    4.59    5.28    5.48    5.50
Estimate
Actual       1.04    1.42    2.69    3.24   3.61    4.35  (4.39)   (4.46)   (5.50)
Actual as
%of           52    39.6   58.6   61.4    65.9   79.1
Estimate
Date of final disbursement: December 9, 1999
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key indicators for project implementation were not provided.
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Key indicators for project implementation were not provided.



- 18 -
TABLE 7:  STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT - PPF FUNDED (US$ 750,000)
Study           Purpose as defined at       Status           Impact of the study
__ __________________   appraisal/redefined
1. The institutional    To identify required   Completed.        New MOH organizational
framework of the sector   institutional reforms.                  structured adopted as part of
including the                                                    credit effectiveness
organization and                                                  conditionality on April 1992.
functioning of the MOH.                                           However, unclear if there
has been lasting impact.
2 The training needs for   To redefine manpower   Completed but not  None.
the health staff.       policies, and to       implemented.
rationalize skills mix
and staff development.
3. The prevalence of    To help design a       Status unknown.    N/A
malaria in the general  medium-term program
population and the      to combat malaria a
nesting and breeding sites  major cause of
of the mosquito vector of  morbidity and
malaria.                mortality.
4. An inventory of health  To determine MOH's    Status of actual  Several centers were built or
facilities and the      civil-work needs to    report unknown     reconstructed, however, no
assessment of           improve basic health   but project       measurable impact on health
rehabilitation needs.   services delivery.     included           services observed.
rehabilitation and
construction of
health centers.
5. a) A review of the   To improve quality and   Status unknown.    N/A
Malabo and Bata         cost-effectiveness of
hospitals' finances and  services and to improve
operation; b)           hospital management.
recommendations and an
action plan for limited
cost recovery at the main
hospitals of Malabo and
Bata
6. Proposals for the    To built the foundations  Completed, but not None
storage and distribution    of a sustainable   used.
of essential drugs to   essential drug supply
project-financed health    program.
centers



- 19 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
1. By component
Appraisal Estimate (US$000)      Actual (US$000)
Item                              Local   Foreign    Total                        Total
Costs    Costs
1. Institutional Strengthening of
MOH
1. (a) MOH's organization planning   435        353     788                       N/A
and management
1. (b) Rehabilitation of MOH offices  61        148     209                       N/A
in Malabo and Bata
2. Health Strategy Development and   266         41     307                       N/A
Implementation
3. Strengthening Priority Health
Programs
3. (a) Malaria Control                94        210     304                       N/A
3. (b) PHC and MCH/FP Centers         35       1,137   1,172                      N/A
(works and equipment)
3. (c) Sexually Transmitted Diseases  60        166     226                       N/A
3. (d) Pilot Program for Essential    33        967   1,000                       N/A
Drugs (including repairs to drug
warehouses)
4. Human Resource Development        235         70     305                       N/A
Training Fellowships and Studies
5. Project Preparation Advance          0       750     750                       N/A
Total Base Costs                    1,219     3,842   5,061
Physical Contingencies                122       309     431
Price Contingencies                   149       359     508
TOTAL                               1,490     4,510   6,000                       N/A
N/A: Not Available.



- 20 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
2. By category
Appraisal        Actual           Actual
Estimate       (US$000)        (US$000) 2
(US$000)
Item                                                           Total            Total            Total
1 Civil Works                                                  1,020            1,551           1,602
2. Furniture, Equipment, Vehicles and Materials                  943            1,005            1,034
3. Drugs                                                         631             385              396
4. Consultants' Services Training and Fellowships              1,093             522              474
5. Incremental Operating Costs                                   273             274              154
6. Refunding of Project Preparation Advance                      750            733 3            763 3
7. Unallocated                                                   790
Special Account A                                                                                  26
TOTAL                                                          5,500           4,470           4451 4
(1) NOTE:  Actual data according to project financial statements submitted by national consultants report, and include the
salaries and severance payment calculated expense.
(2) NOTE:  Actual data in Bank's Controller' Systems, Items 1, 2, 4, 6 were financed 100% by the Bank so should
correspond to project financial statements. Some or all the difference may be accounted by exchange rate
differences, possible misallocation at project level may also explain some of the difference. Figures from
October 19, 1999.
(3) NOTE:  According to Bank's Controller' Systems, the PPF was repaid in full in SDR - SDR520,000 for SDR
520,089.42. The difference may be accounted for by exchange rate differences.
(4) NOTE:  Total is not the sum of 1-Special Account because of rounding of figures.



- 21 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual (US$M)*
Source                          Local    Foreign    Total      Local    Foreign    Total
Costs     Costs               Costs      Costs
IDA                              1.17      4.23      5.50                           4.47
Government of EQG               0.18       0.32      0.50                          (0.2)
Total                            1.35      4.65      6.00                           4:67
* These figures are based on project financial statements.
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Cost-benefit analyses were not undertaken, and a net present value or an economic rate of return were not
calculated.



- 22 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement  Section  Covenant  Present    Original      Revised                Description of                 Comments
type    Status    fulfillment  fulfillment date           Covenant
date
2348-EG    2.02 (a)    4        CP                                 The amount of the Credit may be    The project did not use most
withdrawn from the Credit Account in  of the training expenditures,
accordance with the provisions of  nor the consultant services.
Schedule I to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the
project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
2.02 (b)    3       CP                                  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of  There have been 36 rejected
the project, open and maintain in CFAF  withdrawal applications for
a special deposit account in a     ineligible expenditures.
commercial bank on termns and
conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2.02 (c)    2        C                                  Promptly after the Effective Date, the    Complied with.
Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount
required to repay the principal amount
of the project Preparation Advance
withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of
the authorized amount of the project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
cancelled.
2.03       10        C                                  The Closing Date shall be June 30,  Closing date extended to
1996, or such later date as the   August31, 1999.
Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
3.01        5       PC                                  The Borrower declares its commitment  The Management
to the objectives of the project as set    Committee was only
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement   effective during the first
and, to this end, shall carry out the  phase of the project. High
project through its Ministry responsible  turnover of MOH officials
for Health with due diligence and  and project Administrators
efficiency and in conformity with  hindered the project
appropriate administrative, financial and implementation. MOH was
health practices, and shall provide,  not as involved as should
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, have been and there was no
services and other resources required for due diligence.
the project.



- 23 -
Agreement  Section  Covenant  Present    Original        Revised                Description of                  Comments
type     Status    fulfillment   fulfillment date          Covenant
date
3.02        5       UN-                                  Except as the Association shall     The ICR Mission could not
KNOWN                                  otherwise agree, procurement of the  confirm the compliance as it
goods, works and consultants' services   had no access to the
required for the project and to be  documents. The final audit
financed out of the proceeds of the  of the project should review
Credit shall be governed by the     the compliance.
provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
3.03        5        NC                                  The Borrower shall prepare and submit  The Mission could not see
to the Association by December 31,  any Plan related to the fee
1993, an action plan to extend the fee    policy in the hospitals, and
policy applied on the date of this  did not have any evidence
Agreement at the Malabo and Bata    of implementation of such
hospitals to other hospitals, and   plan.
implement such plan, satisfactory to the
Association, not later than June 30,
1994.
3.04        9        NC                                  The Borrower and the Association shall There is no record of an
review in October of each year during   annual review of health
the execution of the project: (a) all  expenditures or of
investment expenditures in the health    allocation for the recurrent
sector during the previous year and  budget in October during
those planned for the coming three  project execution.
years, with particular attention on their
recurrent cost implications; and (b) the
allocation of the recurrent budget across
existing programs and services to cover
at least their estimated annual operating
costs for materials, drugs, fuel,
maintenance and equipment.
3.05       I10       CD    March 1993                    The Borrower shall prepare and submit  Complied with delay. The
to the Association by March 31, 1993,  first revised version of the
for review, a new list of national  Essential Drugs List was
essential generic drugs, guidelines on    published in August 1996
prescriptions, norms for imported drugs
and the qualifications of pharmacists
and their assistants.
3.06        9        NC                                  The Borrower shall: (a) evaluate each    The plan that included
year during the execution of the project, WHO support was not
technical and management training   implemented.
activities undertaken during the previous
year; (b) furnish to the Association for
its review and approval by October of
each year revised training plans based
on such evaluation; and (c) implement
such plans taking into consideration the
Association's comments.



- 24 -
Agreement  Section  Covenant  Present     Original       Revised                Description of                  Comments
type     Status    fulfillment   fulfillment date           Covenant
date
3.07        2        NC    Quarterly                     The Borrower shall: (a) starting in fiscal The Government only
year 1992, increase MOH's budgetary   provided 9% of the
allocation to cover part of its non- wage  expected counterpart funds.
recurrent expenditures by at least CFAF  Government made first
150.8 million and maintain such    deposit; but did not
allocation in subsequent years during the continue..
execution of the project; and (b) open
and maintain a counterpart fund account
in BEAC and annually deposit therein
the amount referred to under paragraph
a) above, in four quarterly installments
of CFAF 37,700,000 each made not
later than March 31, June 30, September
30 and December 31 of each year.
3.08        5        NC                                  The Borrower shall maintain         The MC is no longer in
Management Committee (MC), project  operation, and the AFU has
Unit(PU) and MOH Administrative and  never been staffed.
Financial Unit (AFU) operational and
fully staffed with qualified and
experienced persons in adequate
numbers during the execution of the
project.
3.09        5        NC                                  For all fellowships financed out of the   There was no foreign
proceeds of the Credit, the Borrower    training program and the
shall: (a) submit to the Association for  training category was only
its review the functions and        disbursed up to 41%.
qualifications of the candidates and the
proposed training program; and (b) take
all necessary measures to ensure that all
trained staff remains assigned to the job
for which it was trained for a period of
at least three years.



- 25 -
Agreement  Section  Covenant  Present    Original        Revised                Description of                  Comments
type     Status    fulfillment   fulfillment date           Covenant
date
3.10        9        CD    June 30, 1994  November 1995 The Borrower and the Association shall The Mid - Term Review
not later than June 30, 1994, conduct a   (MTR) was done in
mid-term project implementation review  September 1995, more than
to monitor progress in carrying out the   one year after expected in
project and meeting its objectives.  Section 3.10 of DCA. The
Without limitation upon the generality  result of the MTR was that
of the foregoing, such review shall  the PROMESSA project
include an evaluation of the: (a)  had satisfactory
functioning of essential management    achievements, and made
structures of MOH; (b) progress of cost  some recommendations for
recovery measures for drug sales and    future implementation,
medical fees and their impact on health  which were not totally taken
care service quality and utilization; (c)  into account during the rest
progress of training activities and the    of the project
performance of trained staff; (d)   implementation. The result
progress of the priority programs,  of the MTR itself was also a
particularly the MCH/FP, malaria    problem since the rating of
control and essential drugs programs;   satisfactory does not seem
and (e) general administration of the    to correspond to the actual
project, including timely availability of  status of the project with its
counterpart funds and their use,   many problems.
compliance with agreed procurement
and auditing requirements, maintenance
of equipment and facilities financed
under the project, and MOH reporting
duties.
3.11        10       PC    December 31, October 1997   In order to carry out Part C.2 of the  The four health centers
1993                         project, the Borrower shall: (a) submit to constructed by the project
the Association for review not later than and in operation since
December 31, 1993, proposals for staff  October 1997, have been
nominations to the four rural health  staffed.
centers; and (b) thereafter ensure that
such centers are staffed at all times with
qualified and experienced persons in
adequate numbers.
3.12        10      N/A                                  Notwithstanding the provisions of    There is no record of
Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the  requests or works paid by
Borrower shall obtain the Association's  the project equivalent or
prior approval for any hospital     higher than this amount. No
renovation/construction estimated to    new projects were
cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or  undertaken.
more.
4.01(a)     5        NC                                   (a) The Borrower shall maintain or  The 1996 Audit concluded
cause to be maintained records and  with "no opinion on
accounts adequate to reflect in    financial statement" and
accordance with sound accounting    1997 Audit concluded with
practices the operations, resources and   a disclaimer. The main
expenditures in respect of the project of  reason, in both cases, was
the departments or agencies of the  the absence of accurate
Borrower responsible for canrying out   inventory data.
the project or any part thereof.



- 26 -
Agreement  Section  Covenant  Present    Original        Revised                Description of                   Comments
type     Status    fulfillment   fulfillment date           Covenant
date
4.01(b)     5        NC    Yearly         See comments  The Borrower shall have the records and There have been 3 Audits,
(i)                                                      accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of  one for 1993, one for 1994,
this Section including those for the  1995 and 1996, and one for
Special Account and the counterpart    1997. At the ICR
fund account for each fiscal year   preparation, the 1998 and
audited, in accordance with appropriate  1999 audit contract had
auditing principles consistently applied, been signed and terms of
by independent auditors acceptable to   reference modified.
the Association;
4.01(b)     2        NC    Yearly         See comments  Fumish to the Association, as soon as   See above comments.
(ii)                                                     available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such
year, a certified copy of the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably
requested;
4.01(b)     I        NC    Yearly         See comments  Fumish to the Association such other    See above comments.
(iii)                                                    information conceming said records,
accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
4.01(c)     I        NC                                   For all expenditures with respect to  The Mission had no access
which withdrawals from the Credit   to records and accounts
Account were made on the basis of   reflecting expenditures.
statements of expenditure, the Borrower The financial follow-up of
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be  the project by funding
maintained, in accordance with      sources, by counterpart
paragraph (a) of this Section, records    funds, by orders, purchases
and accounts reflecting such        and providers, by cash-flow
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least   and budget, and by
one year after the Association has  cumulative expenditure do
received the audit report for the fiscal   not exist. Financial
year in which the last withdrawal from   statements by the categories
the Credit Account or payment out of   of the DCA were available.
the Special Account was made, all   The generally recognized
records (contracts, orders, invoices,  accounting system was not
bills, receipts and other documents)  in operation.
evidencing such expenditures; (iii)
enable the Association's representatives  There is no planning of
to examine such records; and (iv)   activities and budget
ensure that such records and accounts   forecasting was not done.
are included in the annual audit referred  Activity reports were not
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and   regularly submitted.
that the report of such audit contains a
separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and
intemal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.



- 27 -
Agreement  Section  Covenant  Present       Original        Revised                 Description of                    Comments
type     Status    fulfillment   fulfillment date             Covenant
date
5.01         1         C     September                      The following events are specified as    Complied with at
1992                          additional conditions to the effectiveness effectiveness but some of
of the Development Credit Agreement  the measures taken were not
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) enforced through out the
of the General Conditions: (a) the   project life.
account referred to under Section 3.07
(b) of this agreement has been opened in
BEAC, and the initial deposit of CFAF
37,700,000 for the first quarter has been
made therein; (b) MOH's revised
organizational structure referred to
under Part A.I (a) of the project,
satisfactory to the Association, has been
adopted; and (c) an adequate accounting
system for the Malabo and Bata
hospitals has been prepared and is
operational, and MOHWs staff has been
trained to operate it.
5.02         5        PC    June 1992       September 15,  The date ninety (90) days after the date  Project effectiveness was
1992           of this Agreement is hereby specified for delayed.
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                  8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                  10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds           11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                    allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                         13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C  =  Covenant complied with
CD =  Complied with after delay
CP =  Complied with partially
NC =  Not complied with
N/A = Not applicable



- 28 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
The Project Unit has no operational manuals.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cycle             Planned*               Actual
Weeks   US$(000)   Weeks   US$ (000)
To Appraisal                     N/A                  68.7      189.0
Appraisal to Board Approval      N/A                  15.6       47.5
Board Approval to Effectiveness  N/A                    0           0
Supervision                      35.6      115.9      44.7      154.4
Completion                       12.8       38.0       8.0       21.1
Grand Total                      N/A        N/A      137.0      412.0
N/A = Not available: Planned and revised work programs were not computerized until
1994. Therefore, the data recorded before 1994 could not provide a comprehensive
estimate and are not included in this ICR.



- 29 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS
Performance Ratings from Form
590/Supervision Reports/PSRs
Stage of         Month/    Number   Days in   Specialized        Implemen-     Development         Types of
Project Cycle      Year       Of        Field      Staff Skills    tation Status   Objectives        Problems
Persons             Represented
Through Appraisal       12/88     1          5         TTL                                                  N/A
Through Appraisal       05189     1          9         TTL                                                  N/A
Through Appraisal       11/89      1         21        TTL                                                  N/A
Through Appraisal       7/90       1         9         TTL                                                  N/A
Through Appraisal       01/91     1          15        TTL                                                  N/A
10/91     3         24         TTL, HLT,                                           N/A
Appraisal                                              ACT
Appraisal through Board    None
Approval
Board Approval through    None
Effectiveness
Supervision             11/92     1          5         TTL                  2              2         FC
Supervision             5/93      1          8         TTL                  2              2         NONE
Supervision             1/94      l          8         TTL                  2              2         FC
Supervision             3/95      1          5         TTL                  S              S         FC, LC, PM
Supervision             10/95     1          11        TTL                  S              S         FC, LC, PM
Supervision             12/96      1         10        TTL                  U              S         PM, FC, LC
Supervision             5/97      1          15        TTL                  S              S         FC, PM, LC
Supervision             10/97     1          6         TML                  S              S         FC, PM, LC
Supervision             03/98     2          10        TTL, LOA             U              U         FC, PM, LC
Supervision             05/99     3          14        PHN, COF,            U            U           FC, PM, LC, ME, TP
PRO
Completion              05/99     2          7         PHN, PRO             U              U         FC, PM, LC, ME,
TP, TA
KEY TO STATUS
Performance Rating                  Specialized Staff                        Types of Problems
I =  Problem Free               ACT:  Accountant                           FC:  Financial Covenants
HS =  Highly Satisfactory          COF:  Project Finance / Co-finance    LC:  Legal Covenants
2 =  Moderate Problems           HLT:  Health Services                     ME:  Monitoring and Evaluation
3 =  Major Problems             LOA:  Loan Administrator                   OC:  Other Legal Covenants
S =  Satisfactory                PHN:  Population / Health /               PM:  Project Management
Nutrition
U =  Unsatisfactory              PRO:  Project Operation                    PR:  Procurement
NA =  Not available.               TTL:  Task Team Leader                     ST:  Studies Progress
TA:  Technical Assistance
TP:  Training Progress






APPENDIX A
P age 1 of 9
Translation of the "Aide Memoire" of the Evaluation Mission on the Health Improvement
Project (Cr. 2348-EG), Malabo, May 5, 1999.
REPUBLICA OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SOCIAL WELFARE
HEALTH IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROYECTO DE MEJORAMIENTO DE LOS SERVICIOS DE SALUD
"PROMESSA"
AIDE MEMOIRE
SUPERVISION AND FINAL EVALUATION MISSION
WORLD BANK
APRIL 20 TO MAY 9,1.999
The World Bank's mission for the last supervision and final evaluation of the
"PROMESSA' Health Improvement Project in Equatorial Guinea was conducted by the
following: Dr. Wendy RAVAONOROMALALA, World Bank Health and Population
Specialist, and mission leader, Mr. Prosper BIABO, Consultant Financial Analyst, and
Mr. Carlos Mario SARMIENTO NARANJO, Consultant in Project and Drug Management.
The mission had meetings with the following National Authorities:
From the MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SOCIAL WELFARE
H.E. Dr. Salomon NGUEMA OWONO, Minister of State of Health and Social Welfare
Mr. Bienvenido EKUA ESONO, Secretary General,
From the PROMESSA project
Mr. Gabriel AMUGU AKUMU, Project Administrator,
And other people related to the health sector and with the management of the project
and its assets. (Annex 1).
!.    INTRODUCTION AND EVALUAllON JUSTIFICATION
The "PROMESSA" Health Improvement Project in Equatorial Guinea is the result of the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) Nr. 2348/EG signed by the Republic of Equatorial
Guinea and the Intemational Development Association (IDA), in April 6, 1992, had June
30, 1996, as ending date, and was prorogued until December 31, 1998.
A Mid-Term Review was done in November, 1995, as stated in Section 3.10 of the DCA.
According to the General Conditions that rule the DCA and the procedures and
Operational Policies of the World Bank and IDA, a final evaluation should be done within
a six months period after the project closing.



APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 9
The mission objectives, as stated in the Terms of Reference (in Annex) werei) conduct
the final supervision, ii) assist in the orderly closing of the project, and iii) discuss the
Borrower's Evaluation Report prepared by national consultants.
For the implementation mission, the different levels of project implementation were
considered: Central level (institutional strengthening, support to priority health programs
and the essential drugs revolving fund) and at Local level (4 health centers construction
and equipment). Divers sector actors were contacted (Ministry of Health, International
organizations, Bilateral cooperation, NGOs, auditors and project staff).
11.    GENERAL OBJECTIVE OF THE PROMESSA PROJECT
The PROMESSA project has as general objective to strengthen the Borrower's capacity
in planning, coordinating and monitoring health sector activities.
111.   PROJECT COMPONENTS
According to the DCA, the project components are:
Part A:   Institutional Strength of Health Sector
1. STRENGTHEN OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (MOH):
a)   Strengthening of: i) Management Commiftee (MC), ii) the Planning Unit
(PU), and, iii) Administration and Finance Section (AFS).
b)   Strengthen the Human Resources and support to the decision making
decentralization process, rehabilitation and equipment of MOH offices.
2. STRENGHTEN HOSPITAL ADMINISTRATION
Strengthening of the financial autonomy of Malabo and Bata Hospitals.
Part B:   Health Strategy preparation and implementation
Establishment of a Health Information System, MOH staff training and equipment.
Part C:   Strengthening of priority health programs
1 .  Malaria control
2.   Mother Child Health / Family Planning (MCH / FP)
3.   Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD)
4.   Pilot Program for Essential Drugs
IV.   MISSION DEVELOPMENT
After the formal introductions to the Ministry of Health Authorities, the mission started the
data collection process through interviews with main actors of the Health Sector in the
country, and visits to health structures on the Bioko Island and in the Continental
Region.
The mission positively appreciates and thanks the collaboration received from those
interviewed, for the quality of the meetings and the spirit of cooperation that has been
expressed. However, the mission mentions its great reserve for the low level of
coordination, the unavailability of sufficient logistic means and the difficulties on
obtaining the necessary information for its outcome.
For its work, the mission was structured in two parts, technical and financial. The
technical was implemented by Dr. Ravaonoromalala (Chief of mission) and Mr.
* Sarmiento, and thle financial was implem-ent7d by Mr. Biabo. Duringits visit to the



APPENDIX A
Page 3 of 9
Continental Region, Mr. Amugu Akumu accompanied the mission, as national evaluation
consultant.
Technical Area: The technical area team interviewed MOH civil servants, trying to
include all areas related to the above mentioned project objectives, It also interviewed
with the UN System representatives (PNUD, WHO, FNUAP, UNICEF), of other
international cooperation (Spain, France, European Commission), NGOs (FERS, MSF)
and technical Assistance for vertical programs (malaria, oncocercsis). The mission also
visited the PROMESSA Project offices in Malabo, and Malabo Hospital.
In the Continental Region, the mission visited the Health delegation in Bata, the School
of health and Nursing, the Health Center in Beayop, Micomeseng District, and the
project offices and warehouses in Bata and Malabo.
Financial Area: Mr. Biabo interviewed the different financial actors of the project, such
as the former Administrator, representatives of the Banks in which there were projects
accounts (BEAC, SGBGE and CCEI), the Cameroon Price Waterhouse auditors, and the
national consultants contracted to prepare the project closing economic and financial
information.
V.   RESULTS
The following are the missions' results, according to the mentioned terms of reference:
a)   Assess the Borrower in the last disbursement requests before April 30, and
support its preparation:
Result:    Upon arrival, the mission supported Mr. Amugu Akumu, national consultant,
to prepare the following withdrawal applications, which were sent the Bank
on April 23, 1999:
i. 30% of the Consulting Contract for the Evaluation Report, to be
prepared by the national consultants Mr. Amugu Akumu, Mr. Nsue
Anguesomo and Mr. Gori, joint venture.
ii. 30% of the Consulting Contract for the closure project accounting and
financial information, to be prepared by the national consultant, Mr.
Ntutumu.
iii. Consulting Contract for the December 31, 1998 Audit Report, to be
prepared by Price Waterhouse Coopers.
iv. Payment of the 1997 audit, prepared by the same Audit Company.
b)   Review the previous Withdrawal Applications in order to determine the necessary
corrections, e.g. percentage and category application for disbursements.
Result:   Previous Withdrawal Applications were reviewed with Mr. Amugu Akumu
and was supported to make corrections of the one related to the project staff
severance payments, according to the Equatorial Guinea Ministry of Labor.
It was sent to Washington with the ones mentioned in a).
c)   Review the main issues pointed out in the 1997 Audit Report.
Result:   The mission reviewed the problems pointed out by the 1997 Audit Report,
coming to the following conclusions:
i. Financial statements:   The issue on the reality, genuineness, and
regularity of the 1997 financial statements has not been solved yet. There
is a difference between the data given brthe project administratiorr to the



APPENDIX A
Page 4 of 9
mission and those given by the Price Waterhouse Coopers (PWC) audit
(note of translation: according to data made available during the audit)
particularly those related to inventories, PWC have accepted to do the
corrections to their report so that it reflects the reality. The national
consultant, Mr. Ntutumu's, work will prepare his financial statements
based on the corrected data.
ii. Financial statements model:   Project Administration has the project's
financial statements according to the World Banks' models. Mr. Amugu
Akumu will work with his administrative assistant to computerize this data
and present the statements so that the auditors can start their work.
iii. Uncertainty of Inventories, Clients, and Deposits accounting: Taking into
account that no drug and physical inventories were done before 1997,
and that there is no convincing documentation on sales, product
deliveries for charity, revenues, and deposits of those, revenues in the
project banks accounts, there has been a high risk of financial fraud and
misuse. Despite the efforts done by the last administrator to improve
management, and in spite of the improvements achieved, there is no total
control of inventories, products and revenues. The inability of the project
to supply the ecuatoguineans with essential drugs, as agreed in the DCA,
was highlighted.
iv. Withdrawal applications and Disbursement: The mission notes that the
World Bank's disbursement procedures were not followed during project
implementation. The mission did not find disbursement manuals nor staff
trained on these procedures. The high level of staff turnover both in
project coordination (General Secretary of MOH), and project
administration have specially aggravated this situation (note of
translation: resulting in lack of follow-up and continuity).
v. Credit Account follow-up: The mission expressed its satisfaction for the
fact that the project direction has the World Banks monthly extracts that
allows them to make a good follow-up on disbursements.  By the
contrary, expressed its dissatisfaction as the project does not have an up
to date accounting system.
vi. Files: The mission did not find enough and complete files that reflect
the project activities during its seven years. The low exhaustiveness of
the documents is a persisting problem, and brings doubts on the real
justification of the credits accounts and figures that were given by the
administrators.
vii. Assets follow-up and accounting:   During the last two years there has
been an improvement on the projects assets. Nevertheless, the mission
found that the amortization tables applied to some investments are
incorrect and impedes the project from knowing the real value of its
assets. The auditors must analyze this situation.
Viii. Treasury accounts:    The mission has verified that the actual project
bank accounts are the ones necessary for project closure. The mission
recommends that after all pending payments are done, those bank
accounts should be closed making transfers of its balance to the Public
Treasure or to the World Bank through the Special Account.
d)   Assess the Borrower on the 1998 Audit Report, as well on the respective financial
statements:
Result:   The mission did various working sessions with the national consultant
contracted to prepare the financial statements and with the audit mission



AtWNDIX A
Page 5 of 9
responsible with the objective of a) establish agreements on the strategy to
be used for the good implementation of the audit; b) define the tasks and
responsibilities of each one of the participants; c) avoid the blocking that
have occurred previously and that have hazarded for the audit report quality.
The mission recommends the project management (i) accelerate the
withdrawal applications for the ongoing contracts (audits and nationals
consultants); (ii) program the night working schedule, as it is the only time
when the project offices have electricity; (iii) prepare, for the project's
closing preparation, all the project's accounting information (assets files,
bank accounts statements, amortization tables, drug revolving funds'
financial statements, records from the warehouses inMalabo and Bata), as
well as and exhaustive inventoriers of all projects assets; (iv) plan all the
interviews with the different public and private administrative actors related
to the project, (v) close the project's bank accounts, as previously
mentioned; and, (vi) accelerate the Final Evaluation Report prepared by the
group of national consultants, and (vii) the final version of the financial
statements prepared by the consultant, before May 15, 1999.
e) Look over the counterpart funds, including the dates and amounts of payment, as well
as the implications of the temporary waiver accepted by the Bank.
Result:   The mission recognizes the effort made by the Government of Equatorial
Guinea for the counterpart funds financing but points out the fact that there
have been no payments during the last three years. The total amount of
counterpart funds paid to the PROMESSA project by the Equatoguinean
Government is of the 9% of the expected 943 Million CFAS that were
expected during the project duration. Additionally, the mission saw that the
counterpart funds were used to pay projects' staff salary and other operative
costs, which is against the DCA. Furthermore, none of the drug suppliers
have received yet the governmental part (10% of total purchases).
f)   See the Drug Revolving Fund's (DRF) performance and its financial management;
determine the DRF agreements made between the Bank and the Borrower, including the
agreements that the revenues from drug sales be substituted to the counterpart funds
and that sales to private pharmacies will be permiKted, and examine the consequences
of these agreements on the project.
Result:   After the analysis of the available information about the performance and
management of the DRF, the mission concluded as follows:
i)   The PROMESSA project has not created a reliable efficient public
system for essential drug supply in Equatorial Guinea. In spite of a
US$417.553 investment in essential drug purchases, upon its closure the
project has not left a functioning DRF. The mission identified the following
as the main obstacles for the DRF success:
a) The unpayment of counterpart funds by the Borrower, that should be
used, according to Section 3.07, Article IlIl of the DCA, "to pay part of the non
wages ordinary costs of the Borrower in the Health Sector and the projects
current costs". The unpayment created a deficit situation in project
accounts. On this issue, the mission considers important to underscore (i)
The Borrower only paid once the counterpart funds stated in the DCA (only
for the forth trimester of 1992, and first trimester of the project), ii) the Bank
appfoved, on May 23, 1994, "a onte year temporary waiver-of bte counterpart



APPENDIX A
Page 6 of 9
funds payment in recognition of the situation of the country, a new
counterpart funds financing plan . and iii) after the one year period
finished, the Borrower continue without paying the funds stated in the DCA.
Additionally, the Borrowers' delays in paying its obligations with the Bank,
affected the projects performance.
b) The Bank acceptance, on May 1994, that the revenues from drug sales
would be considered as counterpart funds. This reduced the ability of the
DRF to provide the necessary funds to repurchase drugs, as the counterpart
funds were designed for activities different than drug purchases. From the
good practices in revolving funds management, it is of utmost importance
that when sale prices are calculated, all additional expenses to drug
purchases are taken into account (administrative expenses, management
expenses, infrastructure maintenance, transport, etc.) and avoid to charge
other expenses not included in the original price calculations , which will
reduce the possibility subsequent purchases of drugs.  The Bank's
acceptance of the revenues from drug sales as counterpart funds, meant the
loss of DRF in its capacity of autosustainability, and was not able to
establish itself as a more sustainable essential drug supply and cost
recovery system for the public health sector.
c) The common practice of hospitals and health centers to use part of the
funds from drug sales to cover part of its expenses, also helped to diminish
the DRF's capacity to repurchase drugs.
d) Drug purchases were done under public health emergency situations
(blood diarrhea and cholera epidemics) without using the planning capacity
of the international technical assistance available to MOH. This resultedin
excessive purchase of some low consumption products that expired in the
project warehouses, after the emergencies were covered (glucosaline and
ringher lactate solutions).
e) The Borrower did not follow Bank's procedures and rules, especially on
the issue related to the drug and medical services sales revenues
management, in spite of the reiterated requests stated in the Aides
Memoires and letters sent to the Borrowers between 1995 and 1998
(management of the revenues funds bank accounts).
f) With the issue of the authorization from the bank to sell drugs to the
private sector of the DRF, the mission considers it as a negative decision, as
the main objective of the DRF is to allow the population to access to drugs
at a reasonable price, reducing intermediaries and its profit margins,
assuring the administrative, logistic and repurchase costs coverage. The
objective of this agreement was to open the market and was done without a
drug expert's assessment. Nevertheless, it was never put into practice
because the total drugs lack.
g) At last, but the most important issue for the last phase of the project,the
disagreement between the Bank and the Borrower on the percentages
covered by each other in the last drug tender. (i) On the Bank supervisions'
mission, done from September 24 to October 4, 1995, it appears ' The
Government requests the Bank to consider the modification of the
percentages to cover by each part for drug purchases, so that the Bank will
pay 100% (of the purchase), taking into account the difficult treasury
situation of the Country". (ii) On the Aide Memoire dated December 21,
1996, appears "... an agreement has been done to reallocate US$200.000
for drug purchases" . (iii) On letter to the- Bank, dated March 10, -1998, the



APPENDIX A
Page 7 of 9
Health and Social Welfare Minister says 'The Government requests to the
Bank the 100% financing of the signed contract for drug purchases with the
suppliers   Interpharma  and  Interagraria".    After exchanges  of
correspondence, on August 19, 1998, the Bank sent a letter to the MOH
which saying that "The World Bank informed you through fax dated June 23,
1998, that the DCA does not authorize the Bank to cover 100% purchases of
the essential drugs....." This situation, the impossibility (according to the
DCA) for the Bank to finance 100% of drug purchases, and the inability of
the Government to pay the 40% of the cost, strangulated the DRF, and all
the PROMESSA project activities during one and a half year. None of both
parts made a gesture to unblock the situation, and the last opportunity to
save the PROMESSA Projects DRF was lost.
g)  Inform the Borrower on the procedure to prepare the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) and discuss the Borrower's Evaluation Report, prepared by the national
consultants.
Result:   According to the General Conditions of the DCA, the Borrower must prepare
the Borrower's Evaluation Report before the period of 6 months after
project's closure. This is before June 30, 1999.  (i)   The Project
Administrator sent his plan on January, 1999, which was accepted by the
Bank. (ii) The Bank authorized to contract a group of national consultants to
do this assignment, and its budget. Messrs. AMUGU AKUMU, NSUE
ANGUESOMO and GORI form the team. The Bank also authorized to
contract Mr. NTUTUMU as consultant for the preparation of the project's
final financial statements. iii) The first drafts of these reports are expected
by the mission before its departure.
h)  Discuss with the Borrower any possible way for future collaboration in the health
sector as well as the conditions for such cooperation.
Result:   As the Borrower's Evaluation Report has not been received, the mission
does not have a discussion framework.  After appraisal of the project
achievements, interviews with multilateral and bilateral organizations and
NGOs, the mission highlights the importance of support with new resources
for the social sector (education, health, food availability at household level
and water and sanitation) and development in Equatorial Guinea. The
Mission recommends that any intervention in the (health) sector should
include the following aspects in order to achieve sustainability:
i)   There should be more coordination and communication between the
political decision making level and the technical implementing level (upwards
and downwards communication channels must be warranted);
ii)  The actual capabilities of the MOH make necessary to deploy technical
assistance staff for project implementation;
iii) There should be a census of trained personnel and they should be
kept in the positions for which they were trained;
iv)  There should be more activities toward improvement of community
participation in projects, especially at the first level, with the Revolving Funds
management.



APPENDIX A
Page 8 of 9
v)   The mission found good planning capacity, which is in enormous
contrast with the very low achievements (e.g. the Health management
Information System)
VI. GOVERNMENT'S OBSERVATIONS:
Despite all difficulties, and the lack of follow-up and supervision from the World Bank
official, Mr. Loso K. Boya, as had been agreed in the Development Credit Agreement,
the Government has concluded the implementation of the Project, and considers it has
complied with its responsibilities in a reasonable fashion. Unfortunately, the
Government sees the project has come to the final phase of its final evaluation without
fully achieving its objectives, yet leaving one more debt that Government will have to
face.
The main deficiencies of the project, as well as the under-achievement of project
objectives are due to the arbitrary behavior of the World Bank official, Mr. Loso K. Boya,
which manifests itself especially in:
1.-  Civil works appointment (of the civil works company - remark of the translator)
along personal criteria such as:
(a)   The MOH's roof rehabilitation works, without positive results as after the
works water keeps coming into the building.
(b)   The works in the health centers of Beaypo, Mongomeyen and Ngolesork
that have deficiencies.
2.-  Lack of compliance of the World Bank official Mr. Loso K. Boya, with the
agreements signed in Malabo in Aide-Memoires, especially the one dated December 21,
1996. Upon arrival to Washington he forgot what was signed in Malabo, and did not
start the procedures needed to apply those agreements. This has had its consequences
especially in the break-down of the essential drug supply system, lack of payment to
project staff, lack of payment for operating costs for 4 years, delays in disbursements for
training, and other various deficiencies from the Bank that will be pointed out in the Final
Evaluation Report.
3.- The auditing company, PRICE WATERHOUSE, chosen by personal selection of
the World Bank's official Mr. Boya, in all its reports, never reported to Government nor to
the World Bank the real management problems of the Project, limiting itself to purely
formal aspects.
All these circumstances are those which brought the project to a situation of
strangulation one and a half years before its official closure, with US$1.1 million still
being available in the account in Washington



APPENDIX A
Page 9 of 9
The Mission thanks again the cooperation given by the participants.
Malabo, May 15,1999
THE WORLD BANK                THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND
SOCIAL WELFARE
Dr. Wendy RAVAONOROMALALA            Dr. Salom6n NGUEMA OWONO
Mission leader                     Minister of State






APPENDIX B
Page i of 10
41.-
LOGROS POR OBJETIVOS
FORTALECIMIENTO INSTITUCIONAL
Se restructur6 el Ministerio con:
- Elaboraci6n y aprobaci6n del reglamente organico
- Elaboraci6n y aprobaci6n de los demas reglamentos y procedimientos
- Creaci6n del Consejo directivo
- Creaci6n de la Secci6n de Planificaci6n y Recursos Humanos
- Rehabilitaci6n de la Sede del Ministerio de Sanidad y Bienestar Social y de la
Delegaci6n Regional de Bata.
- Rehabilitaci6n de los almacenes del Repuestos General de Medicamentos
de Malabo, Bata y la Escuela Nacional de Sanidad de Bata.
- Equipamiento de las oficinas, material informaticp, erquipos m6dicos,
vehiculos y material de oficina.
FORMACION Y CAPACITACION DE RECURSOS HUMANOS
Asi mismo se han realizado durante el afio 1.998 cursos de:
- Formaci6n de enfermeras en Malabo
- Formaci6n de enfermeras en Bata
- Formaci6n de auxiliares de framacia en Malabo
Se envi6 la correspondiente documentaci6n e informes al BANCO
Otros cursos y becas programadas no se han podido efectuar por falta del
correspondiente envio de fondos por parte del BANCO
ADMINISTRACION DE HOSPITALES
En la medida en que el BANCO envi6 el dinero se realiz6 las siguientes actividades.
- Organizado en 1.993 un curso de formaci6n de Directores y Administradores de
Hospitales en materia de contabilidad y finanzas hospitalarias habiendo mejorado un
poco el nivel de los mismos.
- Asi mismo durante el verano de 1.998 se organiz6 otro curso de administradores de
Hospitales, al que asistieron todos los administradores de Hospitales del ambito
Nacional, en las que se imparti6 entre otras las siguientes disciplinas, estructura
Sanitaria de Guinea Ecuatorial, Planificaci6n y Recursos Humanos para la salud,
estadistica aplicada, contabilidad y economia de empresas, la evaluaci6n de este
curso ha sido enviada al BANCO MUNDLAL.



APPENDIX B
Page 2 of 10
42.-
ELABORACION DE LA ESTRATEGIA DE SALUD
El Proyecto PROMESSA preconiz6 el establecimiento de un sistema de informaci6n
sanitaria nacional, formaci6n de Recursos Humanos y adquisici6n de equipos (aunque se
detalla mejor en la categoria de equipamiento).
Es evidente senialar los siguientes logros:
- En 1.993 se realiz6 un curso de formaci6n sanitaria con un total de 51 participantes
corTespondiente a la Regi6n Insular.
- En 1.998 en dos fases se hizo un curso de formaci6n y reciclaje de auxiliares
sanitarios con un total de 142 alumnos de donde 89 correspondio a la Regi6n
Continental y 53 Insulares del Pais - consiste en capacitar a este personal en los
cuidados basicos de enfermeria y otros aspectos inherentes de este tipo de recurso
para mejorar la capacidad asistencial propia en todos los centros sanitarios del Pais
siendo la guia del auxiliar de enfermeria el instrumento didactico principal utilizado
- Igualmente en el mismo ano 1.998 se hizo un curso de auxiliares de farmacia en la
Regi6n Insular para la actualizaci6n de conocimientos en esta area. Participaron 37
Auxiliares de farmacia.
MEJORA DE LOS PROGRAMAS PRIORITARIOS DE SALUD
Al respecto el Proyecto PROMESSA (Proyecto de Mejoramiento Sanitario) decidi6
apoyar los siguientes programas:
a) Programa de Lucha Antipaludica (PLA)
b) Programa de Salud Materno Infantil y Planificaci6n Familiar (SMI/PF)
c) Programa de ETS - Enfermedades de Transmisi6n Sexual.
Referente a estos programas se destacan los siguientes logros:
1.- Programa de Lucha Antipalidica (PLA)
- Adquisici6n de 25 Microscopios binoculares que fueron distribuidos a todos los
centros del Pais con los reactivos correspondientes.
- La compra de medicamentos antipaludicos para el Programa LPA se incluia en la
adquisici6n general de medicamentos (ver programa piloto de medicamentos
esenciales).
- Fue contratado un Consultor Malarioloogo por un anio para asesorar el programa
LPA y evaluar la situaci6n de la endemia palustre en el pais 1.99 1.
2.- Programa Salud Matemo Infantil y Planificacion Familiar (SMI/PF)
- En relaci6n a este programa es importante expresar que son objetivas el apoyo de
las actividades del SMI/PF de parte de PROMESSA a nivel de la periferia
concretamente en Micomiseng, Mongomo y Acurenam, distritos donde se ubican
los cuatro centros de salud construidos por el Proyecto.



APPENDIX B
Page 3 of 10
43.-
3.- Enfermedades de Transmisi6n Sexual (ETS)
- En el marco de este programa el proyecto financi6 la edici6n de normas de
enfermedades de transmisi6n sexual - pendiente su revisi6n consensuada nacional
y su distribuci6n.
PROGRAMA PILOTO DE MEDICAMENTOS ESENCIALES
Se implement6 el programa de compra y distribuci6n de medicamentos esenciales, que
del lado sanitario fue positivo, pero del econ6mico y financiero no podemos decir lo mosmo.
Su objetivo de crear un fondo rotatorio de medicamentos no se ha conseguido.
No obstante los medicamentos adquiridos por el Proyecto PROMESSA, tuvieron un
gran impacto en la poblaci6n guineana, ya que eran medicamentos de calidad garantizada y a
precio muy asequibles. Estos medicamentos contribuyeron a la extenci6n de la cobertura
sanitaria y a la utilizaci6n de los servicios.
EXTENSION DE LA COBERTURA SANITARIA
Con la construcci6n de cuatro Centros de Salud
- Beayop
- Oveng
- Mongomeyeng
- Ngolesork
Situados en los lugares de mas dificil acceso de la geografia Nacional. Completamente
equipados con los equipos medicos e instrumentales necesarios y amueblamiento
correspondiente.
LOGROS POR CENTROS
En nuestra observaci6n se ha constatado los siguientes logros por centros
CENTROS BENEFICUIDOS                   CENTROS NO BENEFICIADOS
Sede Ministerio de Sanidad            - Hospital Regional Malabo
- Delegacion Sanidad Bata               - Hospital Regional de Bata
- Repuesto Medicamentos Malabo          - Escuela de Sanidad Bata
. Repuesto Medicamentos Bata            - Resto de Hospitales
- Los cuatro centros de salud



APPENDIX B
Page 4 of 10
44.-
OTRAS ACCIONES DIVERSAS
Igualmente, ya con mas experiencia de los problemas y manejo del Proyecto con la
Misi6n del BANCO MUNDIAL del 11 al 21 de diciembre de 1.996 siempre dirigido por el
Oficial Sr. Loso BOYA, se evalu6 profundamente la situaci6n del proyecto decidiendo que a
pesar de las deficiencias constatadas, el GOBIERNO manifestaba su voluntas de proseguir,
con lo que se redact6 el documento (Ayuda Memoria ACUERDO DE NORMALIZACION
INSTITUCIONAL Y DEL FUNCIONAMIENTO DEL PROYECTO PROMESSA), en que
se recogia todas las acciones a realizar para el mejor funcionamiento y performancia del
Proyecto, pero si por una parte el GOBIERNO cumplio razoblemente sus compromisos, el
BANCO no ha tomado en consideraci6n las decisiones adoptadas en dicho documento, con lo
que buena parte de las acciones decididas para la mejor implementaci6n y relanzamiento del
Proyecto han quedado en aguas de borrajas.
DEFICIENCIAS Y PRINCIPALES PROBLEMAS.
De este lado destacamos fundamentalmente:
Fortalecimiento institucional del Ministerio de Sanidad (MS)
En este objetivo, se constata fundamentalmente que la unidad del Planificaci6n y
Recursos Humanos, solo ha alcanzado un nivel de funcionamiento muy incipiente, con lo cual
no puede cumplir su cometido de planificar y programar la capacitaci6n de los Recursos
Humanos necesarios, lo que es mas no alcanza siquiera a tener una informaci6n real y a
tiempo de los recursos humanos totales disponibles y de sus movimientos.
Asi mismo hay que sefialar que no se ha llegado a crear la Secci6n de Administraci6n
y Finanzas (SAF) tal como preveia el Proyecto, con lo cual una macrounidad economica
como es el Ministerio de Sanidad y Bienestar Social, no cuenta con ninguna persona que se
ocupe de forma adecuada y profesional de la materia.
En cuanto a los Recursos Humanos y Fotalecimiento de la Administraci6n de los
Hospitales, tal cormo ya se ha indicado anteriormente, el resultado constatado es
completamente insatisfactorio.
En lo referente al establecimiento de un sistema de informaci6n sanitaria (SIS) y
capacitaci6n de personal de MS y equipamisnto indicar:
- No se pudo establecer el sistema de informaci6n sanitaria para disponer de datos de
calidad en el sistema.
- Desde el punto de vista del equipamiento ha sido deficiente porque no se abarc6 a
todos los hospitales y limitandose solo a los cuatro Centros de Salud construidos
- Otros aspectos de forrnaci6n contemplados por PROMESSA como: curso de
auxiliares del SIS (sistema de informaci6n sanitaria), curso de informatica, auxiliares
de radiologia, auxiliares de laboratorio y otros (formaci6n local), asi como la
formaci6n en el exterior dentro del plan general de formaci6n de personal
1.997/1.998 no se han podido efectuar por falta del correspondiente envi6 de fondos
de parte del BANCO.



APPENDIX B
Page 5 of 10
PAGE MISSING FROM THE ORIGINAL



APPENDIX B
Page 6 of 10
46.-
c) El Proyecto en coordinaci6n con el servicio de farmacia con el fin de garantizar la
reposici6n de los fondos invertidos en las compras, al precio final del medicamento
puesto en el almacen, para la tarificacion se establecieron los siguientes parimetros:
1) Una carga del 10% previsto para gastos administrativos, 2) Una carga de 10% para
el centro asistencial que vende los medicamentos, 3) Una carga del 5% previsto para
revalorizaci6n en la futura compra y 4) Una carga del 5% para compensaci6n por
indigentes y beneficiarios. En resumen se afiadia al precio de compra un 30% previsto
para el Sector Publico, con to cual en teoria se garantizaba la recuperaci6n del costo
inicial invertido. Pero al quedar excluidos del funcionamiento del Proyecto los
tecnicos del Sector Farmaceutico del Ministerio, conocedores -del sistema de
reposici6n de fondos, ya no se puso en practica la estructura de precios establecida
despues de la segunda compra, lo que contribuy6 tambi6n a no poderse crear el FRM.
Por otra parte, las practicas contables y auditorias fueron guiadas unicamente por un
criterio de tesoreria y no revelaron nunca las perdidas que se producian.
d) En la distribuci6n de medicamentos a los centros sanitarios no se tuvo en cuenta que
una gran parte de la inversi6n en la compra de medicamentos, estaba constituido de
material sanitario, que no se vende directamente en las farmacias, sino mas bien este
se distribuye en los diferentes servicios de hospitales para los actos asistenciales
(curas, operaciones, etc) y que el coste de este material debia ser incluido en el cobro
de dichos actos asistenciales y ser reintegrados a la farmacia y al Proyecto, la entrega
gratuita de este material contribuy6 a la no recuperaci6n de gran parte de las
inversiones.
e) Se elabor6 un documento sobre el "Sistema de distribuci6n y gesti6n de Fondos de los
Medicamentos" este documento incluia en sus anexos varias fichas de control de
consumo y venta de medicamentos, asi como instrucciones de como debian se
manejados los libros de contabilidad de ingresos. El documento debi6 ser distribuido
a todos los centros sanitarios en un seminario de formaci6n sobre el manejo de los
medicamentos del Proyecto. Esta fornmaci6n no se realizo por no haber sido
transferidos los fondos necesarios por el BANCO. En consecuencia, se entregaron los
medicamentos a un personal que no habia sido preparado para su gesti6n.
Cabe sefialar la actuacion personalista del Oficial del Banco Mundial Sr. Loso K.
BOYA en la concesi6n de contratos de compra de medicamentos a empresas que no habian
ganado la licitaci6n internacional lanzada por el Ministerio en 1.996, asi como acuerdos
particulares suyos en contratar personal no especializado para la gesti6n de los medicamentos
en los almacenes.
Todo lo aqui expuesto unido a lo recogido en la Ayuda Memoria de la Misi6n del
BANCO del 20/04 al 9105/99, contribuy6 a la no consecuci6n del objetivo del Proyecto de
crear un fondo rotatorio de medicamentos.
Para ilustrar nuestras aseveraciones, ver los cuadros EVOLUCION Y MARGEN
BRUTO DE LA ACTIVIDAD DE VENTA DE MEDICAMENTOS, EVOLUCION Y
BALANCE DE EXISTENCIA AL 31/12/98.



APPENDIX B
Page 7 of 10
PAGE MISSING FROM THE ORIGINAL



APPENDIX B
Page 8 of 10
48.-
ASPECTOS POSlrIVOS EN LA ACTUACION DEL GOBIERNO Y DEL BANCO
No obstante a las deficiencias sefialadas debemos sefialar igualmente los aspectos
positivos que hemos constatado en la actuaci6n tanto del GOBIERNO, que por el BANCO
MUNDIAL.
POR EL GOBIERNO
- A pesar de todas las enormes dificultades sefialadas, voluntad politica para conseguir
los objetivos programaticos.
- Prudencia y mesura en el control de los fondos, evitando despilfarros, aunque esta
actitud ha sido en detrimento de una gesti6n mas eficaz y agil por parte del UEP.
- Manifiesto esfuerzo en levantar todas las suscesivas suspenciones, aunque tal como
hemos indicado antes de una forina global para todos sus compromisos con el BANCO,
aunque ello ha sido en detrimento de atender los fondos de contrapartida especificos del
Proyecto PROMESSA.
- Aprendizaje rapido de los procedimientos administrativos del BANCO, y esfuerzos
por mejorar la calidad del personal del Proyecto y conseguir su relanzamniento, infelizmente
no materializados por la obstrucci6n del propio Oficial del Proyecto, asi como la rigidez que
hemos senialado anteriormente, por parte del BANCO.
POR EL BANCO
- Rigor y exactitud en el manejo de la contabilidad y de las cuentas
- Disciplina y extricta obsevancia de los procedimientos
- Perserverancia apesar de las dificultades
CONSECUENCIAS PELIGROSAS
En observaci6n de esta evaluaci6n el cancelar el Proyecto en las actuales
circunstancias, es decir:
- Sin implementar las ultimas decisiones urgentes adoptadas
- El Pais completamente desabastecido de medicamentos y sin comprar los
medicamentos esenciales previstos.
- Sin imlementar las uiltimas reformas decididas por el Sr. BOYA para los almacenes
de medicamentos de Malabo y Bata y la Escuela Nacional de Sanidad de Bata
- Sin ejecutar el programa de inauguraciones y operacionalizaci6n y mantenimiento de
de los centros de salud.
- Sin comprar las dos ambulancias previstas en la Ayuda Memoria del 21/12/96
- Sin completar minimamente los cursos de formaci6n decididos de comuin acuerdo
con la OMS.
Traeria como consecuencia, paradogicamente LA DESTRUCCION Y
DESMANTELAMIENTO de lo mejor que el BANCO MUNDIAL ha contribuido y realizado
para el sector de salud de Guinea Ecuatorial.



APPENDIX B
49  Page 9 of 10
PRINCIPAL LECCION APRENDIDA DE LA E,JECUCION DE PROMESSA
A efectos de esta evaluaci6n, la ensefianza mas importante que hemos deducido de
toda la informaci6n y datos anteriores, es que:
1 no se puede llevar a cabo el mejoramiento de los servicios de salud y del propio
sector y ningun otro Proyecto, sin contar con un buen plantel de personas cualificadas.
2 La Unidad de Ejecuci6n del Proyecto debe contar siempre con suficiente autonomia
y con participaci6n en la toma dedecisiones, asi como tener asegurada previamente su
operacionalidad.
EVALUACION
Consideramos pues, y a pesar de los multiples problemas y deficiencias senialadas, y a
tenor de la situaci6n real en que se ha desenvuelto, que el Proyecto PROMESSA ha cumplido
razobalemente sus objetivos, que podemos concretar en una calificaci6n de REGULAR El
resultado no se puede calificar ni de satisfactorio ni de totalmente insatictactorio, sino
simplemente de RAZONABLE.
Por otra parte senialar asi mismo que la no consecuci6n plena de los objetivos tal como
estaba previsto, encontraznos que es compartida al 50% por el GOBIERNO y al 50% por el
BANCO MUNDIAL.
RECOMENDACIONES
Como consecuencia de todo lo anteriormente expuesto,. esta evaluaci6n recomienda;
1.- Que de los fodos remanentes se compre y se abastesca al Pais de medicamentos, y
se atienda las necesidades mas urgentes sefialadas.
2.- Que se concluya los cursos de formaci6n ya programados asi como otros que se
puedan programar, susceptibles todos ellos de ejecutarse en el interior del Pais y en
colaboraci6n con las instituciones afines existentes.
3.- Atender todos los gastos comprometidos y recogidos en los estados financieros al
31/12/98 y de acuerdo al Convenio de Credito.
4.- Teniendo en cuenta la trascendencia del Sector Salud, y lo que PROMESSA
representa para el mismo, planificar una segunda Fase del Proyecto, debiendo para ello afectar
una parte de los fondos remanentes y solicitar de la ayuda del BANCO para realizar una Mini
Conferencia Nacional de los profesionales del Sector Salud y otros Ministerios implicados
para determinar todas las necesidades del Sector Salud, y establecer el segundo Convenio de
manera que elimine y supere todas las deficiencias aprendidas con la experiencia del primer
Convenio.



APPENDIX B
Page 10 of 10
50.-
AGRADECIMIENTO
Expresamos nuestro mas profuindo agradecimiento al Excmo. Sefnor Ministro de
Estado, Encargado de Sanidad y Bienestar Social, Dr. Salomon NGUEMA OWONO por su
aporte y orientaci6n para la realizaci6n de este Informe de Evaluaci6n Final. Asi como al
Iltmo. Sefnor Secretario General y funcionarios del Ministerio de Sanidad por su
disponibilidad para con nuestro trabajo.
TESTIMONIO
Manifestamos nuestra mas sincera admiraci6n y reconocimiento al GOBEERNO DE
LA NACION, por su manifiesta voluntad politica en la consecuci6n de los objetivos
prograrnaticos.
A Su Excelencia OBIANG NGUIEMA MBASOGO, Presidente de la Republica, Jefe
de Estado y Presidente Fundador del Partido Democratico de Guinea Ecuatorial, por su
infinita comprensi6n y aliento, afan y firmne voluntad en pro del desarrollo del Sector Salud en
beneficio de todo el pueblo ecuatoguineano.
Nuestro mas profundo y sincero agradecimiento al BANCO M1UNDIAL por sus
esfiuerzos, contribuci6n y asistencia al desarrollo del sector Salud de nuestro Pais.
Malabo 17 de junio de 1.999          (
Joint Venture
Gabriel AMUGU AKUMU                           Manu   SUE ANGIJESOMO
Grro GORI MOMOLU



MAP SECTION






IBRD 22929
QUATORIAL GUINEA  t
HEALTH IMPROVEMENT
-Z MALABO~~~~~~~t PROJECT
RAeyr                                  X MAIABOBaCey                                    PROJECT HEALTH CENTERS
+                                /                       E     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HOSPITALS
-a)eri iBEXISTING ASPHALT ROADS
G,.r.e_                                                                     EXISTING LATERITE ROADS
BatU    <     BIleIllPo                                                                        PLANNED ROADS
J,  oml B I OK O 
BriconichoO I   tRiobe                                                                    N"N,  RIVERS
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RVR
- __MoPORTS
j + AIRPORTS
\  _    BRIDGES
p  *  NATIONAL CAPITAL
-<  _     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Gulf  of  G0jleor/                                                                      Ebolowva
0      20      40      60     s0
i_____________________________ -KILOMETERS
------      MILES                                     C A M  E R O  O  N
0     1 0   20    30    40   50
1I 1
ii 930t ~~~~~6                               Rio Campd(     
il~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 2                      >          Ayami Ken  Benyyo                               e
ANNOBON 1,                                  B                                            e                           _
_P30'Z                n30isoc
Arsebon I .( fobo                                                      f    \            /            kMaya             |
Solonqo f/      enye     )   R I  O        M( U    N    I          W       / 
i t ~~~~~~~~~~~~AcaR ._ ot
KINHjlA0    NIGER                                                                      v n.yong                                   <oS| 
ATANT     OCA                                                 en  the  legal  stat us  anyAtlensocr   end r n        Nsork
XFORX#                      ELOBt Y GRANOEtst M                                                                  .........
Mmb.N I                      MADY                                        GABON
a  J                    0         ~~~~~~~~~~This map has been prepared by The World Bank's staff e.cfusively for the
tJ                      l        ~~~~~~~~~Bank Group. The denominationsCufsesdeand fthe tbeoundaries usehofn The  this
C  t                   I         ~~~~~~~~m0p do not imply, an the part of The World Bank Group, any l'udgment
ATLANsTtC OCEA aa; )    \                    s                 n the legal status of any territory or any end-rement or acceptance of
such boundaries.
DECEMBER 1991



