Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 9421-EG
Report No.  9421-EG   Type: (SAR)
BOYA, LOSO/ X34725 / J-8101/ AFIPH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
HEALTH IMPROVEME1T PROJECT
FEBRUARY 6, 1992
Population and Human Resources Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aothorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The rate of CPA francs 288 to the US dollar
is used for cost projections as of January 1992.
The CFA franc (C AF) is tied to the French franc (FF)
in the ratio of FF 1 to CFAF 50.
MASURES
1 m   1.09 yd.
1 m2 = 10.76 sq.ft.
1 k%o2 - 0.38 sq.mi.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYKS
AFDB        African Development Bank
ANU         Administration and Finance Unit
AIDS        Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
BEAC        Banque des Etats d'Afrique Centrale
EPI         Expanded Program of lmmnization
EQG         Equatorial Guinea
FP          Family Plannig
Fy          Fiscal Year
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
lEC         Information, Education and Communication
MC           Kanaging Committee
HCHIFP      Kother and Child Health and Family Planning
NOR         Ministry of Health
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
OCEAC       Organisation de coordination pour la lutte contre les
end4mies en Afrique Centrale
PHC         Primary Health Care
PU          Planning Unit
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
STD         Sexually Transmitted Disease
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNFPA       United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
MHO          World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EQUATORLAL GUINEA
HEALTH IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................................            iii
I. INTRODUCTION ............................................              1
II. THE ECONOMY  ............................................              1
III. THE POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR ....         .........     2
A. Population, Health and Nutrition Profile ....         .........    2
B. Performance and Constraints of the Health System   .....           6
C. Government Strategy for the Health Sector ....         ..........    10
IV. THE PROJECT      ....................... ........................    13
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement ..........................    13
B. Project Objectives .....................................    13
C. Project Description ....................................    14
1. Institutional Strengthening of the Ministry of Health    14
2. Health Strategy Development and Implementation   ......   17
3. Strengthening Priority Health Programs ............     ..    17
(a)  Malaria Control ................................    18
(b)  Mother and Child Health and Family Planning ....         19
(c)  Sexually Transmitted Diseases .....        .............    20
(d)  Pilot Program for Essential Drugs ....        ..........    20
4. Human Resource Development                .         .          22
(a)  Technical Assistance .........................           22
(b)  Hedium-Term Staff Training Program ....        .........    22
(c)  Fellowships and Studies .........................    23
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ...............................    24
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT .....          ...............    26
A. Project Preparation        ................. ..................    26
B. Project Implementation and Hanagement ........ .........   27
C. Technical Assistance, Training,
Fellowships and Studies                   ..                     29
D. Civil Works            ............ 30
E. Procurement    ...........................................    30
F. Disbursements    .................... .....................    32
G. Project Accounts ....................                            33
H. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .......... ..........    33
I. Project Mid-Term Review                   ..                     34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



it -
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ..............................    35
A. Benefits ..................                                 35
B. Risks ...... .......    35
VIII. AGREEMNTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION               . .         36
ANNEXES
I. Basic Data
II. Government Health Sector Strategy
III. Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Health
IV. Health Sector Budget and Investment
V. Indicative List of Essential Drugs to be Procured
VI. Project Implementation and Disbursement Schedule
VII. Project Cost Estimates
VIII. Disbursement Schedule
IX. Operating Plan for Malabo Hospital
X. Status of Bank Group Operations in Equatorial Guinea
XI. Documents in the Project File
MAP: IBRD 22929
This report is based on the findings of the Bank pre-appraisal and appraisal
missions which visited Equatorial Guinea in January and October 1991,
comprising Messrs/Mmes. Loso K. Boya, Projects Officer and Mission Leader;
Eugenio Morice, M.D. Health Planner/Pharmacy Specialist; Karl Schiller,
Hospital Kanagement Specialist and Marilou Bradley, Senior Program Assistant.
Ms. Ishrat Z. Husain, Chief, AFTPN revieved the project design. Me. Marina
Rovatti assisted with the typing of the report. Messrs. Michel Palein and
Michael Gillette are the managing Division Chief and Department Director
respectively for the operation.



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
HEALTH IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Government of Equatorial buinea
Beneficiary:       Ministry of Health (MOH)
IDA Credit
Amount:            SDR 3.9 million (US$5.5 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Project
Description:       The objective of the project is to strengthen the
capacity of the Ministry of Health to plan, coordinate
and monitor Equatorial Guinea's health sector
activities by establishing a coherent sector policy
and strategy; gradually building up a credible MOH
management system and team, strengthening MOH's
organization and staff capabilities, and promoting
regular consultations with the donors active in
health and the beneficiaries of health care. The
project would also help the Government improve the quality
of its field services and increase its capacity for service
delivery in the critical areas of primary health care,
mother and child health and family planning, major diseases
control and essential drug supply to ensure continuity of
vital health services.
Specifically the project would:
(a)   institute at the central level a core management
team (a Managing Committee, MC) of MOR Senior
Managers, strengthen MOB's organization and
decentralize functions; and improve sector
management through training, provision of material
support and technical assistance;
(b)   establish a management information system and a
planning unit in MOB to carry out health
investment screening, analysis and programming,
and to support the implementation and subsequent
annual revisions of the Government health
strategy;
(c)   develop human resources for carrying out health
activities through technical and management training
of staff at all levels of the health system; and



- iv -
(d)   strengthen priority health programs targeted on
vulnerable groups, includirng malaria control,
mother and child health and family planning, and
sexually transmitted diseases through rehabilitation
of facilities and provision of medical equipment and
essential drugs.
Benefits
and Risks:        The project is expected to improve the effectiveness
and sustainability of health sector investment and
operations, and to strengthen the coordination of
sectoral activities and donor aid to health;
reinforcing HOH's institutional and management
capabilities would lead to better planning and
management of the sector as a whole; strengthening the
capacity of HOH to deliver priority health programs
would improve access to health care services for the
poor and rural population, thereby reducing illnesses
and premature deaths from preventable and curable
diseases. Malaria control would directly protect
80,000 people living on Bioko Island from a major
public health threat. The HCH/FP program would
benefit an estimated 60,000 women and children, and
contribute to the goal of halving maternal and infant
death by the year 2000. Project risks include delays
in implementation due to unfamiliarity of HOH in executing
a project of this scope. Also, HOH's capacity to plan,
manage and cooadinate health programs is weak, and the
qualifications of local staff are inadequate. The risks
were first addressed through the adoption of realistic
objectives and a simplification of the original project
design and would be further mitigated through technical
assistance, training   '40H staff at all levels. a strong
supervisory role for     Žlanaging Committee of H40 senior
managers, annual and mid-term reviews of the project's work
program and performance, and intensive project supervision
by IDA.



SDv_
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
HEALTH IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Cost Estimates
(net of taxes and duties, in US$ 000)
Local       Foreign       Total
1.    Institutional Strengthening of
MOH
(a) KOH's organization
planning and                       435          353           788
and management
(b) Rehabilitation of MOH offices
in Malabo and Bata                  61          148           209
2.    Health Strategy Development and
Implementation                          266          41           307
3.    Strengthening Priority Health Programs
(a) Malaria Control                     94          210           304
(b) PHC and MCHIFP Centers
(works and equipment)               35       1,137         1,172
(c) Sexually Transmitted Diseases       60          166           226
(d) Pilot Program for Essential         33          967          1,000
Drugs (including repairs to
drug warehouses)
4.    Human Resource Development
Training, Fellowships and Studies    235             70           305
5.    Project Preparation Advance               0          750          750
Total Base Costs                            1,219       3,842         5,061
Physical Contingencies                        122          309          431
Price Contingencies                           149          359          508
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         1,490       4,510         6,000
-===__=  _====



vi -
Local       Foreign       Total
Financing Plan (in US$ million)
IDA                                         1.17         4.33         5.50
Government                                  0.18         0.32         0.50
TOTAL                                1.35          4.65         6.00
Estimated Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
(in US$ million)
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   1997    1998
1/
Amount Disbursed         1.03    0.98    1.59    1.36    0.33   0.19    0.02
Cumulative Amount        1.03    2.01    3.60    4.96    5.29   5.48    5.50
Rate of Return:            Not applicable
1/ Includes repayment to IDA of PPF advance of US$ 750,000



REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
HEALTH IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1         Between 1969 and 1979, the health 3ector in Equatorial Guinea,
like all other sectors, experienced Systematic degradation, disorganization
and neglect. With donor support , the Government has since 1979 initiated
efforts to revamp the health service activities. However, this attempt has
so far proved insufficient to cori:ect the health system's fundamental
weaknesses, and endemic tropical and parasitic diseases continue to be
rampant, causing high morbidity and mortality. The Government is committed
to improving the health indicators by strengthening health policy
f3nrulation and sector management, developing human resources, and
increasing the capacity of the public health system to deliver basic health
care services for the most vulnerable groups and the rural population. It
has requested IDA assistance to help prepare a program.
II. THE ECONOMY
2.1         Equatorial Guinea is small (28,051 km2) and sparsely populated
(350,000 inhabitants, 1990 est.), and consists of a continental area, Rio
Muni with 801 of the total population, and a group of islands, including
one major island Bioko, and four smaller adjacent ones. The capital,
Kalabo is located on Bioko and is some 250 km from the other major city,
Bata on the mainland. The island of Annobon is some 750 km from the
capital. As a result, communications and administration are difficult and
costly.
2.2         The economy is based on agriculture (including cocoa, coffee,
fishing and forestry) which provides a living for some 802 of the
population and accounted for 582 of GDP in 1987 and virtually all exports.
Subsistence agriculture accounted for the bulk of agricultural value-added
(64X); cocoa (6Z); forestry (202); and fishing (4Z) for the rest.
Manufacturing in the form of wood and cocoa processing, a small brick
factory, and some consumer goods, especially food processing, and
construction and public utilities accounted for 11 of GDP while services,
including public administration amounted to about 31Z.
2.3         The main subsistence food crops are cassava, plantains, yams,
peanuts, squash, taro, fruits, vegetables and some maize. Traditional
staples continue to provide the bulk of rural and urban diets, although
imported goods such as wheat and rice form a significant part of the
latter. Fishery resources, including tuna, shrimp and coastai species are
abundant, and EQG receives about US$2 million annually in fees from fishing
licenses granted to foreign fleets.
2.4         Equatorial Guinea has a basic transport infrastructure system,
which with a few exceptions, has sufficient capacity to meet current needs.
However, lack of maintenance has resulted in a dismal state of the
infrastructure. In addition to the ports and airports in Malabo and Bata
cities, the transport system includes 160 km of paved roads and 90 km of



-2-
feeder roads on Bioko island, and 840 km of public roads and an estimated
700 km of forestry and feeder roads in continental Rio kuni.
2.5         The education system includes eight years of primary education
followed by four years of secondary education. Higher education is not
available locally, except through correspondence courses with universities
in Spain or college studis-s abroad. In 1986, the enrollment ratio in
primary schools was 732 and enrollment in secondary schools had tripled to
8,000 students in that year. These indicators reflect the efforts of
Government and the donors to improve education in EQG but the overall human
resources situation in the country remains unsatisfactory. Most schools
operate with insufficient supplies, inadequate buildings and too few
teachers who in the most part are nut adequately trained. In general, lack
of manpower. both in quality and quantity, constitutes a key development
constraint. The ongoing IDA-financed education project is attempting to lay
the foundation for human resource development by revamping primary
education.
2.6         The adoption of a convertible currency (CFA franc) in 1985 and
the liberalization of pricing and import regulations for consumer goods led
to rapid expansion of the trade sector. Initially, the Equatorial Guinea's
economy responded well to the Government's recovery measures initiated in
1984 and the renewed inflow of foreign aid. Timber exports reached 164,000
m3 in 1988 while cocoa production for the 1987188 season increased to 8,190
tons. This improvement was in part due to better weather conditions and to
more appropriate marketing and taxation policies, and availability of
liquidity resulting from the establishment of a new commercial bank
(Biao-GE).
2.7         In 1989, the Government took further measures to improve
budgetary management in the areas of expenditure control and revenue
collection from import and export duties. However, progress has been less
than expected. Improvement of EQG's public finances is undermined by high
external public debt. External debt service obligations exceed 602 of
exports of goods and 702 of budgetary revenue. These obligations are
proving too much for the country to absorb and large external arrears have
been accumulated. In addition, Equatorial Guinea is still constrained by a
number of major structural problems which impede the achievement of
sustainable growth with external and internal equilibrium. The resumption
of macroeconomic dialogue with the Bank and the IMF has led to the
preparation of a policy framework paper approved by the Board on
December 3, 1991.
III. THE POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR
A. Population, Health and Nutrition Profile
3.1         The first national census was conducted in July 1983 with
technical and financial assistance from the UN Fund for Population
Activities (UNFPA). The final results were only published in March 1990.
Various problems related to data processing delayed the release of census



-3-
results. Total population was evaluated at 350,000 inhabitants, and females
accounted for 51.7Z of the population. The crude birth rate is 43 per
1,000 and the death rate is 19 per 1,000, indicating a growth rate of 2.4X
per annum. The population is currently estimated at 350,000 inhabitants
and would reach 482,130 inhabit.nts by the year 2003. It would double in
thirty years. The population is unevenly distributed among the regions:
the continental region has 275,000 inhabitants (93X) and the islands the
remaining 75,000. The average population density is 10.7 inhabitants per
square kilometer for the country as a whole, but higher densAties are found
on the islands, including 124.7/sq.km on Bioko island and 60.8/sq.km on
Annobon island. Urbanization is proceeding apace, and currently 37? of the
total population is urban. The main cities include the capital Malabo on
Bioko island with about 55,000 inhabitants and Bata on the continent with
58,000 inhabitants. However, Equatorial Guinea remains a rural society in
which 632 of the population still live in the countryside.
3.2         The structure of the population is pyramidal with more than 55?
of the total population less than 20 years old, indicating both a
continuing decline in general mortality and high fertility rates. Th3 0-5
age group is about 64,000 out of a total population of 350,000. Life
expectancy at birth is 48.5 years. The infant mortality rate is 120 per
1,000, and total fertility rate is 5.6 children per woman. However,
fertility is negatively affected by high incidence of primary sterility
among women. Over 302 of women aged 50 or more have no children. The
percentage of sterility declines to 22? for women in the 35 - 45 age
bracket, and to 15X for younger women aged 30 years or less. Primary and
secondary sterility which affects all the countries in the centra, region,
including Gabon, Central African Republic, Congo and Cameroon, is
decreasing among the younger population, and this may lead to a rise in
fertility.   Migration out of Equatorial Guinea has decreased in recent
years after reaching peak levels during the 1960 - 1983 period. It is
estimated that 90,000 Equato-guineans left the country during that period
and settled in neighboring countries, mostly in Gabon and Cameroon. During
the 1983 - 1988 period, about X,000 Equato-guineans left their country.
3.3         EQG's health sector, like other sectors, was disrupted and
brought to paralysis by economic and political upheaval between 1969 and
1979. Despite the present Government's efforts to restore essential health
services, the health situation remains alanming, owing to the system's
pervasive structural weaknesses. The dominant pathologies are malaria,
tropical endemic and infectious diseases, intestinal parasites, traumas,
childhood infections, diarrheal and respiratory diseases, and nutritional
disorders. There are national programs to combat tuberculosis,
onchocerciasis, leprosy and schistosomiasis. Sexually transmitted diseases
are a growing concern but, except for the WHO-sponsored AIDS scheme, no
program currently exists to control them. Sanitary, housing and water
supply conditions are poor, and the incidence of infectious diseases and
related morbidity and mortality are high. The infant mortality rate of 120
per 1,000 exceeds the average rate of 106 per 1,000 for Sub-Saharan Africa.
Data on maternal mortality vary considerably but it is estimated that
maternal death rate ranges from 420 to 600 per 100,000 live births as 80?
of deliveries are not supervised by trained personnel and take place Pt



-4-
home. Tho main causes of high maternal death in EQG include the lack of
prenatal and postnatal care which prevents early detection of high risk
cuses and other complications, including toxemia, severe anemia, and
poitpartum infections.
3.4         The sector institutional framework includes the Ministry of
Health (HUH) which is responsible for coordinating all health-related
activities in the country, including donor activities; and a dozen NGOs and
church organizations involved in health initiatives at the grassroots
level. MOCH' organizational structure includes four key departments as
follows: a Secretariat General which handles the personnel, finance and
administration functions; a Directorate General of Public Health and
Planning responsible for health policy planning and programs, health
statistics and training of staff; a Directorate General of Social Services
and Hospital Coordination in charge of social welfare and hospital
supervision; and the Continental Delegation located in Bata city to oversee
health matters on the continental pottion of the national territory.
Uithin each department there are several divisions and units responsible
for specific services.  As noted in paragraph 3.11 below, the current
organizational structure of MOH is heavy and lacks clarity of functions and
responsibilities.
3.5         The qualifications and distribution of available personnel are
inadequiite to cover national needs as a whole.  Qualified health persoxanel
in general tends to be concentrated in the cities of Bata and Malabo where
working conditions are better, resulting in inadequate services in rural
areas. Ttki total work force in the MKO is 1,002, excluding village-level
health workers. ,c-hnical. personnel includes 99 physicians, 154 nurses,
625 auxiliary nurses, 5 pharmacists and 55 trained traditional birth
attendants. Of these, 50 physicians, 36 nurses and 2 pharmacists are
foreign nationals, mainly from Spain, China and the former Soviet Union.
Most local MOH personnel require training or retraining to upgrade their
skills. Non-medical personnel comprises 12 administrative officers and 200
workers, including clerks, secretaries, mechanics, drivers, cleaners and
watchmen.
3.6         The EQG system comprises three levels of car"-; the first level
is the primary health care 'PHC) facility wkch includes 145 health pocts,
11 dispensaries, 10 health centers and 11 district 1ospitals whose role is
to supervise the PHC centers below them. The second level consists of the
4 provincial hospitals which provide 'secondaryO health care and training
for district-level health personnel. The third level includes the 2
national general hospitals in Malabo and Bata. There is also 1 national
health school (in Bata) that provides formal training for nurses,
auxiliaries, birth attendants and village-level health workers. The ratio
of population to hospital bed capacity is 383/1. The majority of the
health infrastructure requires rehabilitation, repair and maintenance. The
hospital sub-sector is an important part of the health care system in EQG.
Total bed capacity is 843 beds. The four largest hospitals include the
Malabo hospital (208 beds), Bata hospital (176 bedsy, Mongomo hospital (93
beds), Ebebiyin (82 beds) and Evinayong (54 beds). A new 50-bed hospital
wing for the Malabo hospital was completed in September 1991, with



-5-
assistance from China. Apart from Malabo and Bata hospitals which have 9
physicians each, all the other units have one or no physician. Nurses and
auxiliaries are in short supply and their qualifications are less than
adequate. The hospital sector employs a total work force of 723 staff (702
of total sector manpower) and absorbs about 65X of the annual health
budget.
3.7         Drug imports and sales are liberalized in Equatorial Guinea,
giving rise to a thriving private pharmaceutical sector. About 100 private
pharmaciec import freely and distribute brand name drugs throughout the
country but drug prices are determined by market forces, and are high and
represent a significant burden on household income while quality control is
non-existent. Private pharmacies are concentrated in the cities, with 32
drugstores in Malabo and 24 in Bata. Traditional medicine is widely used
but the scope and nature of the activities of traditional practitioners are
not documented. As a matter of public policy, drugs are provided free of
charge to most people (civil servants, military, students, cabinet members
and their families, pregnant women, children under 5 and senior citizens
aged 70 or older) in Government health facilities. This practice
encourages drug overuse and waste.
3.8         The nutritional status of the EQG population closely follows
trends in food production and availability. Domestic food production
includes plantains, yams, bananas, fish and game meat. The country rarely
experiences droughts. The daily per capita calorie intake averages 1,950
kcals/day/per capita, compared to a minimum requirement of 2,500 kcals.
Malnutrition affects about 162 of children under 5, and wasting affects
about 102 of these children. Extreme malnutrition is rare (1) and is
found mostly among children fed with artificial milk or who are weaned
early. Breast-feeding is widely practiced and more than 602 of children
are breast-fed up to 18 months. Many women of childbearing age still suffer
from various vitamin deficiencies. Nutritional education to teach
household members the value of balanced diet is lacking.
3.9         EQ('s public health care system is financed through the
national budget, external aid fl.ows and private domestic funds.
Government's contribution to ..ealth financing averages about $2 million a
year. Government budgetary allocations to health amounted to CFAF 350
million or 4.52 of the total budget in 1985; CFAF 380 million (4.82) in
1986; CFAF 296 million (2.2X) in 1987; CFAF 455 million (3Z) in 1988; CFAF
434 million (3.82) in 1989; CFAF 451 million (4.2Z) in 1990 and are
estimated at about CFAF 458 million (4.0X) in 1991. The percentage of the
health budget relative to total government budget has over the last decade
remained below the 6a average found in other Sub-Saharan countries (see
Annex V). Since 1987, salaries account for more than 452 of the recurrent
health expenditures each year, and drugs, equipment, materials, travel and
transfers account for the balance. However, drugs, materials and equipment
account for a very small proportion of the non-wage public health
expenditures. Betwe.kS 1986 and 1990, non-wage public expenditures for
health care supplies, drugs, consumables and equipment averaged the
equivalent of USS 200,000 annually; this explains in part the chronic
shortages of materials and medicines in the public health care system. By
far the largest share is borne by external donors who together contribute



-6-
over 8OX of total health expenditures. Private financing, mainly for
drugs, is significant but remains undocumented.
3.10        Investment expenditures were CFAF 1,287 million (about US$5
million) in 1987, CFAF 1,768 million in 1988, CFAF 1,990 million in 1989,
CFAF 2,148 million in 1990, and CFAF 1,847 million are projected for 1991.
These expenditures are funded exclusively by foreign donors. Spain
provides about 562 of all external aid to the health sector, followed by
China with 102, the UN agencies (UNDP, WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA, etc) with 7.5X
and France with 4.52. Other significant donors include the USSR, Italy,
Cuba, a dozen European NGOs and church organizations.
B. Performance and Constraints of the Health System
3.11             Sector Management.  The unfavorable population and health
indicators described in paragraphs 3.2 and 3.3, specifically the high
infant and maternal mortality rates, are evidence that the sector is not
responding adequately to the basic health needs of the population. This is
explained by the low level and quality of services which has eroded the
population's confidence in the system. Use of public health services is
low and declining, especially in rural areas. The main constraints to
better performance are discussed below, together with further details about
the health system. MOH's capacity to carry out key sector management
functions is extremely weak. Qualified staffs are scarce and there is no
effective management information system. The Ministry has limited capacity
for analysis, especially in policy, planning, financial management and
budgeting, and development project preparation and management. All major
programs are donor-led with little overall coordination taking place.
Critical PHC and MCH/FP programs funded by donors are not integrated into
MOE's long-range planning, and therefore always face an uncertain future
each time foreign funding comes to an end. Government's own spending on
health per capita was US$ 3.5 in 1985, US$ 3.5 in 1986, US$ 2.8 in 1987,
US$ 4.3 in 1988, US$ 4.2 in 1989 and US$ 3.9 in 1990. Financial management
in the sector is non-existent, and dispensary and hospital operations do
not keep adequate accounts. Roles and functiors inside the Ministry are not
clearly defined, and there is frequent overlapping or excessive
centralization of decision-making.
3.12         Hospital Management.  Most hospitals suffer from severe
mismanagement, gross inefficiencies, lack of drugs, equipment and work
materials, and limited financial resources due to Government across-the-
board fee exemption policy. Most regional hospitals lack electricity and
adequate water supply. Many district hospitals, intended to serve as
referral centers, are so small and ill-equipped that they are only able to
function as first level care units. As a result, service is very poor, and
a few rural hospitals are facing closure. During project preparation, the
Government requested a consultant study of Malabo and Bata hospitals to
make recommendations for corrective action. The study's findings and
conclusions were presented to the Government in Hay 1990.  The most urgent
measures recommended by the study include financial management reforms to
establish an accounting system in the hospitals which does not exist
currently; and authorization to the hospitals to retain the fees collected
through cost recovery on drugs and consultations to finance their non-wage
operating expenditures, including drug supplies. The study also



recommended that greater financial and management autonomy be granted to
hospitals for their day-to-day operations, including the internal
deployment of hospital staff.
3.13        Human resources.  Staff morale is low due to bad working
conditions and pay as well as a poor sense of direction and supervision;
hence a general lack of sustained commitment to stated goals in the sector.
Shortage of qualified personnel has been identified as a major constraint
to effective management of the sector. As part of project preparation, the
Government undertook an inventory of all personnel of the Ministry to
evaluate existing personnel and identify their training needs and the areas
requiring additional staffing. The findings of the inventory will permit
to weed out ghost employees, redeploy staff into areas currently under
served and review major job descriptions. The proposed organizational
changes would be phased in order to keep them manageable and to minimize
work disruptions. The National Health School of Bata is currently confined
to the training of auxiliary health workers, the basic PHC worker in
Equatorial Guinea. Most local physicians and nurses could benefit from
refresher courses and additional training. However, resources and
classroom space available at the Bata National Health School and the Malabo
Training Center do not allow for any expansion of training programs to be
conducted at the formal and in-service levels, despite the need for these
institutions to expand their present role. At the central level, i.e. the
Ministry of Health, management skills are in short supply in all the
departments, manpower development for health management is lacking, and
training activities remain minimal. To address the skills shortage problem
the Government is preparing a comprehensive program of human resource
development for the health sector with technical assistance from UNDP and
WHO. The initial phase of the program includes measures designed to
respond to the most urgent training needs of the sector over a 3-year time
frame (1992-94).
3.14        Health Infrastructure.  There is an extensive network of health
facilities in most cities and small towns of EQG but new equipment is badly
needed to revitalize this infrastructure. These facilities also require
major repairs to make them usable. Lack of drugs and equipment has forced
the abandonment of several rural dispensaries, leading to increased patient
flows to hospitals and overcrowding in urban health centers. In spite of
the substantial support being received from donors, almost 25Z of all
districts have no adequate primary health care infrastructure for the
implementation of health programs and the delivery of basic health care
services. Three districts out of eleven (Cogo, Micomiseng and Acurenam)
are not covered at all by bilateral programs. Three reasons account for
the situation: firstly there are competing demands on donor resources spent
in health as a significant part (close to a third) of the external aid to
the sector consists of expatriate technical assistance personnel whose
maintenance cost is high; secondly, extending health coverage to these
remote areas requires additional facilities and personnel over and above
what is presently available. Thirdly, the Government simply lacks the
resources to build new facilities.
3.15        Priority Health Programs.      Available epidemiological data in
EQG indicate that malaria, certain diseases affecting the mother and the
child, sexually transmitted diseases, the lack of health and nutritional



education, and of essential drugs are responsible for the majority of cases
of morbidity and mortality in that country. The main problem areas are
described below:
(i)    Malaria.   Malaria is hyperendemic in EQG and remains a major public
health problem affecting both labor productivity and school performance;
and school and work place attendance rate. It accounts for 31X of all
deaths of children under 5, and over 20Z of all deaths in the general
population, and is the cause of 5sZ of all patient visits to health
centers. The Government therefore attaches a high priority to the fight
against malaria. It seeks to integrate malaria control into the system of
primary health care which is being developed. Moreover, the resurfacing of
chloroquine-resistant malaria and the reappearance of the mosquito vector
in areas previously cleared of malaria infestation add a new sense of
urgency to the problem. The Government's medium-term objective of the
malaria program is to reduce by 502 the rates of morbidity and mortality
due to malaria among the most vulnerable groups, i.e. children under 5 and
pregnant women in the context of the delivery of primary health care. For
the long run, the program aims to reduce the prevalence rate of the
disease, and eliminate it as a major health problem. A malaria study
program on Bioko Island jointly financed by the World Bank and UNDP in 1988
with WHO as Executing Agency helped the Government establish baseline data
on malaria incidence, prevalence and groups at risk, and conducted
entomological surveys to identify the mosquito vector's nesting habits and
breeding sites. This information is now available and would form the basis
for further action under the proposed project.
(ii)  Mother and child health and family planning (MCH/FP).   There are
currently about 74,100 women of childbearing age (15 to 44 years) in EQG,
representing 21Z of the total population. Most births are not supervised
and take place at home under unsafe conditions. This explains in part the
high rate of maternal and infant mortality. Children under 5 are
disproportionately affected by malaria, infectious diseases and
malnutrition. Establishing or strengthening primary health care centers
throughout the country remains the centerpiece of Government's health
strategy. A key element of the PHC approach is the protection of mothers
and their children. The Government's MCH/FP program accords high priority
to measures for reducing maternal (420/100,000) and childhood (120/1000)
mortality rates which are among the highest in Africa. It seeks to
intensify prenatal and postpartum care and combat malnutrition among
children under 5 years through growth monitoring and related care. It is
also anticipated that family planning services would play an important and
increasing role in Government's MCH strategy.
(iii) Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs).   In EQG, only limited efforts
are directed toward the prevention of STDs. Apart from the WHO-sponsored
AIDS prevention program, no specific activity is organized to control STDs.
Studies carried out by OCEAC (Organization de coordination pour 14 lutte
contre les endemies en Afrique Centrale) in 1987 and 1988 indicate that sex
life begins early among the adolescent population, that people tend to have
multiple partners, and unprotected sex is common practice. The study
concluded that family health education targeted at the school-age
population offered the best chance of achieving sexual behavior
modification overtime. A review of the STD situation by a PPF-financed



consultant identified the prevalence of STDs, the areas of concentration
and the target groups. These findings would form the basis for the
establishment and further development of an STD control program as an
integral part of the primary health care system.
(iv)  Health and nutritional education.   The Government recognizes that
educating all sections of the population on the objectives of its health
policy is a key element in the efforts to implement these policies. It
proposes to strengthen the information, education and communication (IEC)
services of the Ministry of Health to mobilize communities and individuals
to participate in personal health promotion and early recourse to basic
care. The expanded IEC worh. is being carried out under the ongoing donor-
supported health programs and aims to create greater public awareness of
the availability and uses of preventive and curative services, the benefits
of disease prevention, personal hygiene, balanced diets and appropriate
water and waste disposal practices.
(v)   Supply of essential drugs.   The supply of drugs in the public health
system suffers from several deficiencies. First, the system lacks the
infrastructure for storage and the means of distribution of drugs in the
country. The Government operates only 2 central drug depots at Malabo and
Bata, which need repair and operating equipment, and has no appropriate
vehicles for the transport of drugs and other medical supplies to the
peripheral units. Second, there are no lists of essential drugs and
prescription norms to guide the health personnel and the private operators.
Quality control of imported drugs is not carried out, and consumers rely on
the manufacturers' and suppliers' guarantees. Pharmaceutical personnel is
limited to 5 pharmacists, 6 pharmaceutical technicians and 3 assistant
pharmacists. Third, cost recovery on drugs is non-existent, although a
modest beginning is underway with experimental programs in Anisok and
Acurenam districts in the Continental Region. The Government spends about
10 US cents per capita per annum for drugs. Limited budgets for drugs --
about CFAF 8 million (US$ 34,000) annually -- have resulted in chronic
shortages of essential drugs in most public health facilities, which have
become increasingly dependent on foreign donations for supplies. Drug
supply is irregular and the hospitals and health centers rely mostly on
foreign donations for their drug supplies. Drug cost recovery is non-
existent as most hospital patients are exempt from payment. The general
policy of exemptions for expecting women and children under 5, civil
servants, cabinet members and their families, students and the military,
prevents adequate cost recovery. As a result, no funds are collected to
replenish drug supplies in public facilities. The lack of essential drugs
to treat common diseases constitutes a serious constraint to effective care
and the use of health services by the public, and a demotivating factor for
health staff. Another constraint in the pharmaceutical area is the lack of
trained personnel. Improving this situation requires a new approach to
drug supply and distribution. Specifically, cheaper methods of procurement,
including buying generic drugs, must be explored; on the distribution side,
training of pharmacists is needed, and greater participation by the
consumers in mobilizing funds for drugs must be sought through cost
recovery measures.
3.16        Health statistics.   MOH's statistical unit is not operational.
There is no systematic collection and analysis of national health data for



- 10
publication and dissemination to decision-makers. The information,
training and health education services of the Hinistry also need to be
reinforced 8S does the epidemiological surveillance unit.
3.17        Donor programs.   There is a strong dependence on external
assistance in the health sector. For example, 50 of the 99 doctors
operating in the country are foreign nationals; Spain and China operate 19
hospital pharmacies compared to 18 pharmacies held by the Government; in
1989 drug imports by foreign aid missions totalled CFAF 250 million
compared to CFAF 60 million spent by the State. Donors have provided over
90X of financing for new investment in health in the last three years. All
major health programs, including the Primary Health Care (PHC) system, the
National Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI), the program for the
control of Epidemic Diseases and the rehabilitation of hospitals (including
laboratories) and health centers, receive crucial support from various
multilateral and bilateral donors active in EQG.   The PH% system is being
expanded with assistance from Spain, VHO/UNDP and a number of NGOs,
including the French Volontaires du Progres, tedicus Mundi, Euro-Accord and
church organizations. Specialized programs are also externally funded as
follows: malaria control by WORLD BANK/WHOIUNDP, leprosy control by the
Belgian NGO 9Friends of Father Damian', STD and schistosomiasis control by
WHO, and EPI by Italy and UNICEF. These arrangements are not expected to
change in the short-term. Local counterpart funding is often not available
and lack of coordination and involvement by the beneficiaries limit the
success of the external support. Investment choices are determined by
availability of foreign financing and donor willingness to support the
operations rather than by established sector priority needs. Lack of
investment coordination and planning often results in distortions (i.e.
duplication of investment, overconcentration in some areas, etc.) in sector
programs and imposes serious recurrent cost financing burdens on the
Government which absorb about 402 of the annual health budgets.
3.18        Technical assistance.   Shortage of qualified local staff
constitutes the single most important constraint hampering the development
of the health sector. Over 60X of physicians and 30Z of nursing staff are
foreign nationals. Management skills are very limited, and the MOH relies
heavily on external aid to secure capable personnel for its programs.
Managerial staff, especially in finance and program planning and
implementation, is non-existent. There are currently only 12 poorly
trained administrative officers for the entire sector. Substantial
technical assistance personnel is being provided by Spain, China, the
Soviet Union and France. Spain alone maintains in the country a health
team of 22 doctors, 2 pharmacists and 30 nurses. The opportunity cost of
these arrangements to EQG, in terms of expatriate salaries and benefits, is
high. In the short term, given the slow progress in recruiting and
training local staff, dependency on expatriate technical assistance to
perform even routine functions cannot be avoided.
C. Government Strategy for the Health Sector
3.19        Recognizing that past health development in EQG had been
hindered by the absence of a clear national strategy for health and of
well-defined priorities, the Government urdertook, as part of project
preparation, to formulate a national health strategy with PPF funds in



- 11 -
consultation with WHO (Annex II). The strategy sets broad health targets;
prioritizes and programs the activities for promoting primary health care
over the next ten years; defines functions and responsibilities in the 10,
and establishes guidelines for expenditure and for selecting future
investments. The strategy identifies two broad goals to be achieved over
the medium-term: institution building and human resource development in the
sector to be able to achieve a limited in-house capacity for program
execution as a complement to the considerable donor effort (process goal),
and morbidity and mortality reduction to alleviate pain and suffering
(results goal). In terms of process, the strategy relies on the gradual
build-up of managerial and implementation capacity at the Ministry of
Health. In terms of outcomes, the strategy focuses on the reduction of the
high incidence of endemic diseases, principally malaria, and infectious and
parasitic diseases, childhood communicable diseases, diarrheal diseases,
acute respiratory diseases, and nutritional deficiencies.
3.20        The strategy has identified the following main health targets
for the period 1990-2000:
-   reduce the general mortality rate in the country, with
particular emphasis on infant mortality which should be brought
down from 120 to 80 per 1,000;
-   reduce the infant mortality due to malaria from 31a to 122;
-   achieve an immunization coverage of 852 for the groups at risk;
-   reduce the maternal mortality rate from 40 to 20 per 1,000;
-   reduce the rate of child malnutrition from 162 to 32;
-   expand the network of primary health care centers to cover 952
of the population (40 new dispensaries and 328 health posts);
-   achieve a facility coverage ratio of one dispensary per 6,000
inhabitants, and one health post per 600 inhabitants in the
rural areas;
-   increase access to drinking water and sanitation facilities
from the present 4X of the population to 202;
-   rehabilitate and re-equip the major hospitals and strengthen
their management so that they can play fully their reference
role; and
-   ensure a reliable supply of drugs to health facilities through
a policy of essential drugs and implementation of the Bamako
Initiative.
3.21        The health strategy targets are ambitious and require more
resources and time to implement than the Government is likely to have or
acquire. However, the Government believes that a strategy based on
promotion of primary health care (PHC) is the best way to accomplish these
goals. PHC therefore would constitute the basic instrument of the proposed



12 -
health strategy, and is viewed by the Government as an integral part of the
economic and social development of the nation. PHC implies the full
participation of individuals and communities in resolving their health
problems. The Government recognizes its obligation to provide, either by
itself or through others, basic health coverage for all members of the
population. It also recognizes the right and obligation for individual and
collective participation in the planning and implementation of health care
programs. The Government further acknowledges that, given its own limited
resources and capacity, donors would have to play an important role in
attaining the health goals. One of the principal objectives of the
Government's overall development strategy therefore is to carry out good
planning and coordination of whatever resources it can mobilize and a
gradual build up of its own implementation capacity and credibility.
3.22        The Government considers that PHC can contribute in many
different ways to the attainment of sector objectives, as it can provide at
an affordable cost the necessary services of health promotion, disease
prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, and therefore directly confront
the majority of health problems prevailing in the country. The PHC system
can also provide an educational mechanism for the prevention and control of
diseases, including AIDS. Also, for PHC to be effective, it should have a
reference system, i.e. a functioning secondary and tertiary care system.
It is, however, evident that for the health system to be able to provide
these services, it will have to be rehabilitated, re-equipped and properly
developed and managed, especially at the central institutional level.
3.23        Recognizing that the other major cause of poor performance of
the health sector is its extremely weak management and implementation
capacity, the Government proposes to address the various related
constraints analyzed in paragraphs 3.11 through 3.18 as follows:
-   For health policy planning, a core management group composed of
senior MOH managers (the Managing Committee, MC) would be
formalized to assume responsibility for sector policy and
strategy definition, program planning and external aid
coordination, and monitoring of sector operations;
-   For the management of the health system, certain reforms deemed
necessary for revitalizing health care services to the
population would be undertaken. In this respect, procurement
and management of essential drugs, cost recovery and
beneficiary participation, and system management practices
would be reviewed with the objective of achieving higher
efficiency. Tools for managing the sector, including the build-
up of a management information system, health data collection
and processing would be strengthened;
-   For service delivery, an integrated approach combining
continued use of donor assistance and greater participation of
the Government in field activities would help develop the
operational capacity of the State to assure continuous PHC
services in key areas even if donor contributions were to cease
or decrease unexpectedly;



13
For human resource development, che focus would be on in-
service and formal training of MOH staff at all levels, and on
th,e use of time bound operating technical assistance as a means
of bringing the staff's limited operating capacity up to speed;
uAnd
For the hospital sub-sector, key reforms in the management of
the two national hospitals in Kalabo and Bata, including
progressive management and financial autonomy, selective
application of fee-for-service policy, and accounting anu
administrative controls would be introduced.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement
4.1         While the donor community has continued to provide assistance
for critical health programs, the fundamental problems of EQG's health
sector, I.e. lack of sector coordination and weak implementation capacity
remain largely unaddressed. Addressing tz.em would lay the basis for
accelerated and more effective interventions by the Government and donors
in the future. IDA used its comparative advantage during project
preparation in addressing sector-wide and policy issues, including the
proposed MOH organizational and policy changes, improved management and
planning processes, and cost recovery, all of which are needed to ensure
the viability of the health system and the sustainability of the
Government's economic and social reforms. IDA should continue to play this
catalysi: role in the health sector reform effort. The sector approach is
justified by the need to create a policy environment and conditions
favorable for internalizing and sustaining in the long-run the substantial
donor investments in health. The project is a suitable vehicle for
applying more realistic policy and strategies for the sector, developing
donor coordination and human resources for health as well as strengthening
Government field activities.
B. Project Objectives
4.2         The key objective of the proposed project is to support the
implementation of the Government's new strategy for the health sector by
strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Health to plan, coordinate
and monitor EQG's health sector activities based on a coherent sector
policy and strategy; gradually building up a credible management system,
managerial team and implementation capacity; strengthening its organization
and staff capabilities; and promoting regular consultations with the
external dor.ors who are expected to remain key actors in the sector. In
addition, the project would help the Government increase its owrn capacity
for service delivery in the critical areas of primary health care,
including mother and child health and family planning and major diseases
control in order to cushion unexpected changes in foreign aid availability.
thereby ensuring continuity of vital health services. An immediate
positive outcome of this strategy would be to revitalize health care
services operated by the State, with significant benefits to the
population.



- 14 -
4.3         From these objectives emerge the four lines of action of the
proposed projects
(i) strengthening MOH as an institution to support the emerging
sector strategy formulation process, increase donor
coordination and revitalize health care delivery;
(ii) supporting health sector strategy development and
implementation process;
(iii) strengthening Government management of priority health
programs, including supporting PHC service delivery in selected
districts; and
(iv) developing the sector's human resources.
C. Project Description
4.4   The project comprises the following four elements:
1.    Institutional Strengthening of the Kinistry of Health
4.5         Sector Management.   The project would help institute a process
of continuous health policy review, planning and programming of activities
by a Managing Committee (MC) of senior MOH managers. The MC is a permanent
structure of KOH, and is composed of the heads of the departments and major
health programs of MOH and is chaired by the Minister of Health. All its
members have been nominated. The MC has a key strategic planning role and
provides guidance for policy planning and programs development, monitors
program implementation progress and sanctions reform proposals before these
are submitted to the political authorities for approval. It seeks to
resolve major problems hampering the implementation of agreed priority
health programs. It also ensures that broad policy objectives and
individual investment projects in the sector focus on the relevant dominant
pathologies and demographic problems adversely affecting health, welfare
and economic development in Equatorial Guinea.
4.6         To strengthen intra-sectoral coordination, major donors to the
sector would be consulted periodically by the MC to obtain information on
their respective programs and/or to give guidance as to the Government's
priorities in the sector. The MC would coordinate all external assistance
to health, and ensure that the annual budgeting process and funds provided
by donors be used to allocate resources to priority programs thaet benefit
the general population, especially those in rural areas. This would
eliminate the current duplication of efforts by donors, whose activities
heretofore have remained largely uncoordinated for lack of a credible
coordination mechanism. The MC would be guided in its work by the existing
National Council on Health, an inter-ministerial body consisting of the
Ministers of Health, Plan and Finance, Agriculture, Education, Public
Vorks, Territorial Administration, and Information. The Minister of Health
is normally the chairperson of the Council. To help it carry out its day-
to-day work, the MC would be supported by a health Planning Unit (PU) to be
reinforced by the project. The PU would act as a secretariat for the MC and



15 _
a focal point for planning, programming and coordinating all health sector
activities, reporting throtAgh the Director General of Public Health and
Planning and the Secretary General of the Ministry of Health. The PU would
centralize and scrutinize all major investment project proposals from
donors for consideration by the MC, thereby providing the needed mechanism
to better harness existing and future donor and NGO commitments to health
care and family planning. The Administration and Finance Unit (AFU) of the
Ministry, in addition to its normal functions, would have a suppoiting role
to the Managing Committee, concentrated in the areas of accounting,
procurement and general administration of projects under implementation.
The technical assistance included in the project is designed to strengthen
these structures which would serve not only the IDA-financed project but
also all other projects undertaken by the Government. These arrangements
are described in the proposed new organizational structure of MOH
(Annex III). The MC, which is already operational, meets regularly, on
average once or twice a week; nevertheless formal adoption by the
Government of MOH's new structure would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. During appraisal, the Government submitted to the Council
of Hinisters for approval the new organizational structure of MOH formally
establishing the Managing Committee. Formal approval is a credit
effectiveness condition.
4.7         The project would help streamline and clarify the functions of
selected departments of the MOH, and redeploy their staff, where needed, in
order to strengthen the management of the services. Decentralization of
decision-making away from Malabo would be achieved through greater
delegation of authority to the district Directors of Health for matters
concerning the use of approved budgets, personnel management, drug
distribution and the management of recovered revenues for drug supply and
maintenance activities. The major units of the streamlined MO include the
Office of the Secretary General which would supervise the personnel,
administration and finance, equipment and building maintenance departments
of KOH; and the Office of the Director General of Public Health and
Planning. The latter would oversee six technical departments (health
planning, epidemiology, primary health care, hospital coordination,
pharmacies and laboratories) and the Regional Delegation for the
Continental region in Bata. Several sub-units would be organized under
each department to deal with specific services relating to various
technical aspects of health care. The project would strengthen the
Directorate General of Public Health and Planning with the addition of a
planning unit (see para. 4.6). The proposed organizational structure of MOH
is provided in Annex III.
4.8         At the provincial level, the organization would not be modified
significantly. The Provincial Directors of Health would continue to manage
the health activities in their respective jurisdictions. At the district
level, the Directors of Hospitals would remain responsible for curative and
preventive care in their districts. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that appropriate ministerial decrees would be issued by the
Government to authorize the collection and use of cost recovery funds from
drug sales by the health centers as needed (Paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1
of the Development Credit Agreement). Concerning decentralization of



- 16 -
decision-making power to the district level, adequate powers exist at this
level for the use of approved budgets and the management of local
personnel.
4.9         The project would cover the costs associated with the
implementation of proposed organizational changes, including the cost of
printing and disseminating new job descriptions and internal procedures,
and the relocation costs for staff redeployed. Project funds wou'. d cover
workshops, seminars, transport and supplies for short-term retraining for
key managers and technical staff in Malabo and at the National School of
Health in Bata. All key positions in MOH's new organizational chart have
been adequately filled. To improve the internal administrative efficiency
of the Ministry, new office equipment and furniture, including 3 micro-
computers and 2 photocopiers, a dozen typewriters and a telen machine would
be provided under the project. Window repairs and roof rehabilitation
works, and electrical and paint work for the MOH's main offices in Malabo
and in Bata would also be carried out.
4.10        Technical assistarLce would be needed to support the
implementation of the proposed changes in MOH organization and operations,
and to provide on-the-job training to Equato-guineans. The project would
pay for the services of an internationally-recruited adviser in health
finance and administration for the Administration and Finance Unit (AFUj)
(para. 4.22) for 18 man-months to assist the national Administrator of
Projects in managin,. the project accounts and the day-to-day follow-up of
project procurement operations. In addition, the Government has agreed to
seek an extension of the contract of the French long-term expert currently
working in MOH as Technical Adviser to the Minister of Health. A second
long-term Technical Adviser for health planning and statistics has been
requested by the Governwent from Spain. These experts would assist in
planning and putting into effect the new structure and working procedures
at H0H.  The terms of reference of the proposed experts were discussed with
the Government and the bilateral agencies concerned during project
appraisal, and are satisfactory.
4.11        Hospital Management.   Under the proposed project the
Government would initiate action to address the pervasive problems of
efficiency and management affecting most public hospitals in EQG. Key
hospital reforms would be implemented as part of the hospital management
imp-.vement program sponsored by the French Government and IDA: financial
and management autonomy for Malabo and Bata hospitals, stri^ter enforcement
of fee collection policy by targeting more narrowly the exemptions
(children under 5, pregnant women, people over 70 years of age and the
indigent population), and elimination of transfer of funds to the Public
Treasury by the hospitals. MOH agreed during appraisal to pursue the
ongoing work on improving the accounting systems for the Malabo and Bata
hospitals (with French aid), and to develop and put into place simple
financial management and control systems for the Malabo and Bata hospitals;
and introduce a schedule of selected fees based on the present tariffs, and
authorize their retention by the two hospitals. The revenue collected from
the application of these tariffs would be retained by the hospit%ls to
finance their non-wage expenditures, drug supplies and purchases of new
work equipment. The French Government has seconded a team of experts to
assist in the establishment of an accounting and management system for tne



-17
Bata hospital. This team is expected to be transferred to Malabo hospital
if the Bata experiment is successful, possibly by June 1992. For the other
major hospitals *i the country, the Government has agreed to review the fee
policy within a year based on the experience of the Malabo and Bata
hospitals and to prepare a plan of action for extending the new fee policy
to them. At negotiations the Government agreed that a satisfactory plan of
action for the extension of the new fee policy applied Et the Kalabo and
Bata hospitals to other hospitals would be submitted to IDA not later than
December 31, 1993, and such a plan, satisfactory to IDA, would be
implemented not later than June 30, 1994 (Section 3.03 of the Development
Credit Agreement). The appraisal mission discussed with the Government an
operating plan (see details in Annex IX) for the restructured Malabo
hospital which includes the new pavilion donated by China. The plan has
been finalized and adopted by the Government.
2.    Health Strategy Development and Implementation
4.12        Under the proposed project, a management information system
would be set up to collect, process and disseminate to MOH managers key
data and other information on epidemiological developments, service
activities, status of health infrastructure, personnel, budgets, drug
supplies and donor programs. The planning unit of MOH (para. 4.6) would be
responsible for the statistics work, health investment analysis, planning
and programming, and health program evaluation. The project would support
further development and subsequent annual revisions of the draft national
health strategy prepared under the project (see para. 3.19) through the
provision periodic short-term consultant services, and material support for
workshops/seminars to help the MC refine and monitor the implementation of
the strategy. Formal adoption by the Government of the draft national
health strategy is a condition of Board presentation of the project. Items
to be financed by the project would include workshops/seminars for MOH
staff, including subsistence and travel costs for the participants in
training; short-term consultancies for studies and/or training; data
collection, processing and publication; and printing and dissemination of
the health strategy document. One 4x4 vehicle, one micro-computer and hand
calculators would be procured fors the collection and treatment of health
statistics and other sector information. At negotiations, it was agreed
that the Government would review with IDA in October of each year (i) all
investment expenditures made in the health sector in the previous year and
those planned for the coming three years with particular attention being
paid to their recurrent cost implications; and (ii) the allocation of the
recurrent budget across existing programs and services to cover at least
their estimated annual operating costs for materials, drugs, maintenance,
fuel and equipment (Section 3.04 of the D6velopment Credit Agreement).
IDA's prior approval would be obtained for any hospital
renovation/construction estimated to cost the equivalent of US$1.5 million
or more (Section 3.12 of the Development Credit Agreement).
3. Strengthening Priority Health Programs
4.13        Given the limited implementation capacity of MOH, the
Government relies on the external donors to cover national health care
needs (see para. 3.17). Recognizing the value of the donors' role, the
project includes limited field activities aimed at giving MOH staff



- 18 -
operational experience and testing on a pilot basis certain approaches to
primary health care delivery. The project would assist the Government in
strengthening key high priority health programs which together deal with
more than 90Z of cases of morbidity and mortality in the country. This
support would provide immediate relief from the most debilitating diseases,
while improving MOB's in-house ability to monitor and evaluate the field
activities of the donors involved in care delivery. The project would
support thes central units in charge of planning and evaluation of the
programs selected, and would provide resources (facilities, funds, drugs,
equipment, training and technical assistance) to district-level primary
health care centers to enable them to implement program activities.
Specific&lly, the project would fund and strengthen the activities relating
to malaria control, including environmental sanitation; mother/child health
and family planning; sexuRilv transmitted diseases and essential generic
drugs supply as follows:
(a) Malaria Control.
4.14        The WHO-assisted malaria control unit of the MOH, which
implemented the joint World Bank/WHO/UNDP Kalaria Control Project completed
in December 1989 and prepared the malaria control component, would carry
out the malaria control activities. A two-pronged strategy would be
employed to combat malaria: the first part of the strategy would focus on
high-risk groups, namely pregnant women, infants and children under 5,
malaria patients and people with chronic conditions. For these groups,
early detection of suspected cases of malaria by the staff of the primary
health care center or the village health worker would permit prompt
treatment or referral to higher levels of care. The centers or villages
involved in the program would receive antimalarial drugs and appropriate
training for their administration. Tests conducted so far in Malabo show
that non-specialized personnel can be trained to detect and treat clinical
manifestations of malaria with appropriate medical instructions.
Chemotherapy would be used for clinical cases involving fever while
chemoprophylaxis would be utilized for preventive care, especially for
pregnant women and children under 5. The second part of the strategy would
aim at controlling and reducing the anopheles, the mosquito vector. Vector
control is, however, costly. To ensure the program sustainabiiity and
minimize its costs, social mobilization would be required to involve
individuals and communities in the protection against mosquitos. Several
sanitation measures would be promoted in the villages and urbarn
neighborhoods, including clearing of bushes around dwellings, removal of
stagnant water containers, destruction of the vector breeding sites and
larvae, use of mosquito nets and periodic spraying of living space, etc.
In support of the Government's malaria control program, the proposed
project would finance the cost of antimalarial drugs, travel and training
costs for local malaria program staff, 15 microscopes for analysis,
spraying equipment, insecticides, 500 machetes, training of program workers
and technical assistance (12 man-months of malariologist services) for the
execution of the activities.
4.15        The initial phase the program would concentrate on the Island
of Bioko, a seif-contained area with a total population of 80,000
inhabitants. This would facilitate follow-up of the operation, and permit



- 19 _
an ex-post evaluation of the program's impact. WHO has agreed to continue
to provide technical support to the malaria program under the project.
(b)   Mother and Child Health and Fami17 Planning (MCH/FP).
4.16        The Government attaches a high priority to the activities aimed
at improving the health of the mother and the child, a primary focus of
EQG's primary health care strategy (para 3.20). Project funds would be
used to cover the incremental recurrent costs of supervision of MCH/FP
activities, and to provide technical and management training for staff
involved in MCH/FP services. The project would also help reconstruct and
equip two rural health centers at Nkue and Beayop in the Micomiseng
district and two others at Oveng and Ngolensork in the Acurenam districts.
Both districts are currently underserved. Gynecological equipment, birth
kits, growth charts and baby scales, contraceptive products, drugs and
consumable materials would be provided to these new rural centers, and to
the mother and child clinics of Malabo and Bata hospitals. About 40
additional traditional birth attendants and 20 existing attendants would be
trained or retrained to reduce the currexit shortage of trained birth
attendants, especially in the rural areas. Outreach activities would be
supported through visits of village by birth attendants from tLe new health
centers. Immunization of children against childhood infectious diseases
(measles, tuberculosis, pertussis, tetanus, diphtheria and poliomyelitis),
and of women of reproductive age against tetanus would be intensified in
the assisted centers. The health units covered by the project would raise
modern contraceptive use among women of childbearing age, integrate family
planning services into their regular activities, and provide contraceptive
and counseling services to women who wish to space births or who want to
stop child beaeing but do not currently have the information or access to
family planning services. The project would promote safe motherhood in the
six centers to be covered by the project through the establishment of a
system of early detecticr~. and referral of high risk pregnancies which would
improve delivery care. k; estimated 60,000 women and children would
regularly benefit from tne MCH/FP program.
4.17        The rural tialth center component would be managed by the
respective district medical directors under the supervision of the Regional
Delegate for Health on t- Continent (located in Bata) with appropriate
support from MOH's centrah  Department of Mother and Child Health in Malabo.
Furthermore, the Governme^. has agreed to seek technical assistance from
the Spanish health cooperat on mission for periodic supervision of the
proposed MCH/FP activities a5 Micomiseng and Acurenam districts. The
staffimg of each new rural ceater would inclue  a qualified nurse to
supervise, control and cocidinate the center's activities, a primary health
care worker and two traditional birth attendants. Proposals for staff
nominations for the four rural health centers would be submitted to IDA
before completion of the rehabilitation works, i.e. not later than December
31, 1993 (Section 3.11 of the Development Credit Agreement). Fees for
selected services and drugs, based on current tariffs which fully protect
the poor and other vulnerable groups, would be introduced in the
rehabilitated services of the project health centers and at the Malabo and
Bata MCH clinics, and retained at the services to finance non-wage
operating expenses and drug purchases (see paragraph 4.8).



20
(c)   Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs).
4.18        The project would help establish an STD control program in MO0
which is non-existent at present. In line with the recommendations of the
STD study (para. 3.15 iii), the project would support the establishment of
a National Center for STD Control in Bata, using the existing facilities of
the Bata main hospital. The conter would elaborate norms for STD diagnosis
and treatment, and carry out laboratory analysis of STD samples. It would
also compile data on STD incidence and preval nce, and establish a data
bank on STD epidemiol1 gy in EQG.  It would carry out laboratory tests for
samples provided by other health care units in the region. Project funds
would cover the costs of laboratory equipment and materials, staff travel
and training costs for epidemiological surveillance, subsistence costs for
supervision of district STD activities as well as the cost of survey forms
and 6 man-months of STD specialist assistance. Office furniture and other
equipment needed to launch the new program would be provided. Education
materials for STD prevention would be produced locally. For efficiency
reasons, the management of STD control activities at the central level
would be integrated into the ongoing AIDS prevention program.
(d)   Pilot Program for Essential Drugs.
4.19        Under the proposed project, the Government intends to take the
first steps towards establishing a more sustainable essential drug supply
and cost recovery system for the public health sector. It proposes to
develop and test, through a pilot program in the project-supported health
centers, efficient procedures for the procurement, distribution and
management of essential generic drugs supplies in the public system. The
management of this system would be decentralized and would involve
community participation through facility-level management committees
comprising the representatives of the beneficiaries. In addition, the
regulatory framework for drugs would be established for the first time.
When fully developed, the new system would ensure that adequate supplies of
quality basic generic drugs are regularly available in the public and
private health facilities (thereby reducing prevailing exorbitant prices of
branded, often expired drugs in commercial pharmacies). The policy would
seek to promote the procurement of generic drugs needed for the prevention
and cure of the major causes of morbidity and mortality in the country.
The essential drugs program would be linked to cost recovery, based on the
patient's ability to pay and taking into account the need to fully protect
the poor and other vulnerable groups from hardship, to generate funds for
financing critical non-salary operating costs, including drug costs.
Initially, very low fees would be set on selected items with the
possibility of subsequent revisions as more experienced is gained. The
level of specific fees for a sample of essential drugs to be introduced
were agreed during appraisal but these would be reassessed in due course in
light of actual ccsts of drug imports.
4.20 To enable the MOH to design, test and develop the system, the
Government is taking steps to create a central drug supply unit with
assistance from Spain. The unit would coordinate the Government's drug
supply efforts and act as a focal point for pharmaceutical reforms proposed
under the project. These reforms would be implemented gradually over the
next four years. The Government has agreed to form a therapeutic committee



- 21 °
composed of the director of the central drug unit being created and
selected representatives of the medical profession and the pharmaceutical
trade to develop and review the national essential drug list. During
project implementation, and coordinated by the therapeutic committee,
similar structures would be formed and implemented at the peripheral level
with local community involvement in the management of drug supply
operations through voluntary village committees. The identification of
participating villages is underway in the project areas. A draft list
prepared in consultation with WHO was satisfactorily reviewed by the
appraisal mission. The national essential generic drug list, the
prescription guidelines and norms for imported drugs and the qualifications
of pharmacists and their assistants would be submitted to IDA for review
not later than March 31, 1993 (Section 3.05 of the Development Credit
Agreement). This basic drug list will be formalized, published and
distributed to the different health centers according to applicable levels
of care. The use of generic drugs would be implemented in the purchase,
warehousing, distribution and prescription processes in the public health
care system and encouraged in the private sector. An appropriate drug
distribution system and inventory control is currently being defined with
technical assistance from Spain. This system will define the distribution
charts for Bioko island and the mainland. The therapeutic committee would
also prepare a therapeutic formulary to be officialized and distributed to
the different levels of care. The revision of this formulary at yearly
intervals, recommending additions and/or withdrawals is a major task of the
therapeutic committee. In addition to the list of essential generic drugs,
the therapeutic committee would prepare treatment or therapeutic norms for
the ten most frequent pathologies, and would define the rules and
regulations for the prescription and dispensing drugs. Training needs for
the staff of the pharmaceutical department are also being identified and
would be implemented under the project.
4.21        The therapeutic committee is expected to issue guidelines and
norms for the qualification of pharmacists and their assistants, and
minimum quality standards for imported drugs. Additional legislation would
also authorize the retention by the individual facilities participating in
the pilot program (Nkue, Beayop, Oveng, Ngolensork and Malabo and Bata
HCH/FP clinics) of funds generated through the program for drug
replenishment and maintenance. Submission to IDA of satisfactory decrees
introducing essential generic drugs list and drug prescription guidelines
and quality control measures signed by the Minister of Health, and a decree
signed by the Minister of Finance authorizing the retention by individual
facilities of funds generated through drug cost recovery, would be a
condition of disbursement of IDA fuids for drug purchases (Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement). Project funds would
cover the costs of repairs of drug warehouses, initial stocks of drugs,
their distribution cost within the country, training for 6 local
pharmacists who would in turn train other drug management staff, one 5-ton
truck for drug distribution on the continent (Micomiseng and Acurenam
districts) and field trips for social mobilization to encourage local
populations to participate in the program.



22 -
4, Human Resource Development
(a)    Technical Assistance.
4.22        The proposed project includes several activities whose timely
implementation cannot be handled by local staff alone. The various units of
KOH responsible for the execution of project components would need
additional technical and management help to carry out their
responsibilities under the project. Such assistance would be provided on a
parallel basis by Spain and France. Spain would finance the services of a
planner/epidemiologist to be deployed in the line units of MOH. France is
already providing technical assistance for hospital management in Bata, and
is expected to second a health services planner for the proposed planning
unit under agreed terms of reference. In addition, 40 man-months of
international consultant services would be finance: by the project for the
following tasks:
-   for the Administration and Finance Unit (AFU) (para. 4.10), 18
man-months for an expert in health finance and administration
to assist the national Administrator of Projects in managing
the project accounts and the day-to-day follow-up of project
operations, including procurement, and to train an Equato-
guinean counterpart;
-   for the malaria control program, (para. 4.14) 12 man-months for
a malariologist to help implement the malaria control plan,
including an environmental sanitation program to control
mosquito vector on Bioko Island; to plan, supervise and
evaluate, in coordination with the national Director for
Malaria Control and Environmental Sanitation, all the
activities relating to malaria control;
-   for the sexually transmitted diseases program (para. 4.18), 6
man-months for an STD specialist to help organize the new STD
control program; and
-   for the drvg cost recovery program (para. 4.21), 4 man-months
for an accounting specialist to help establish auditable
systems of accounts at the Ihealth centers and hospitals
participating in the essential drug pilot program.
4.23        The costs of these experts are included in the costs of
relevant components of the project. The terms of reference of the proposed
experts were agreed upon with the Government during appraisal. Explicit
provisions for training of local counterparts, including appropriate
monitoring mechanisms, would be spelled out in the experts' individual
contracts.
(b)   Kedium-Term Staff Training Program.
4.24        The project would also undertake training of local staff in
areas needed for improved performance of the health sector operations. The
first training module would develop the supervisory capabilities of field
medical and administrative staff, including the heads of major health



- 23 
programs, the regional directors, hospital medical directors and the
supervisors of the health centers, and train the trainers. About 45 MOH
managers and supervisors are expected to participate. The course would be
designed to strengthen the skills of the participants in planning,
coordinating and evaluating health program activities, problem-solving and
general management, including personnel and client relations. Ancther
course would be designed for the nurses, the traditional birth attendants
and the auxiliary health workers. About 30 nurses, 40 traditional birth
attendants and 70 auxiliaries would participate. Classes would be
organized by groups of 15 participants for four weeks at the National
School of Health in Bata or at the Training Center in Malabo. Specialist
consultants would be hired to give lectures and to guide the workshops, and
trainers from the WHO regional office in Brazzaville (Congo) would be
sought. The participation of WHO trainers was confirmed during appraisal.
Project funds would cover travel and subsistence costs for the
participants, course materials and other supplies, the fees and travel
costs for the international consultants and trainers, and workshop
organizational costs.
4.25        The second training module would be designed for the heads of
the central departments of MOH and of the Regional Delegations, and for the
administrators of major hospitals. Courses would emphasize knowledge and
practice of health planning and programming, decision-making processes,
service organization and management, efficient resource allocation, basic
accounting, financial management and control. About 30 MOH central
managers would be involved in the training program. Sessions would be
organized with the participation of international experts as trainers,
including trainers from the WHO regional office in Brazzaville (Congo).
Tr&vel and subsistence costs for the participants, and honoraria and
airfare tickets for the external consultants would be financed by the
project. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it will evaluate annual technical and management training activities
undertaken during the previous year and furnish to the Association, for its
review and approval by October of each year, revised plans based on that
evaluation (Section 3.06 of the Development Credit Agreement). The
training schedule is shown in Annex VI.
4.26        In addition to the above-mentioned training activities, the
project would provide teaching equipment and furniture for new classrooms
for training paramedical staff at the National School of Health in Bata.
These supplies would be coordinated closely with the Spanish aid mission
which is coordinating the classroom rehabilitation works.
(c) Fella.-hips and Studies.
4.27        Although the bulk of local sr'f training would take place
within the country, a total of 45 man-mont   of fellowships would be
included in the project to respond to requixements for training abroad, at
an average monthly cost of US$ 1,200 for Africa, US$ 1,500 for Europe and
US$ 1,800 for North and South America. About 3 man-months of short-term
consultancy would also be included for the following studies:



- 24 _
(1) a mid-term  review of project impact to assess the success of
the project in increasing the planning and executing capacity
of the MOH (1 man-month); and
(ii) a study of the prospects for increasing the quantity and
quality of health services provided by MOH and how they should
be financed.  The study would form the basis for a follow-up
health operation in EQG (2 man-months).
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
5.1                  The total cost of the project including contingencies, is
estimated at about US$ 6.0 million equivalent, net of taxes and duties,
with a foreign exchange component of about US$ 4.5 million or 75X of total
project cost. Project cost estimrates are sunmarized in Table 1 below, with
details in Annex VII.  Slight ditferences in figures between the SAR and
the Costab tables in Annex VII are due to rounding.
Table 1
SuNmaryr of Estimated Project Costs
Equatoriol Guinou
Hoolth Improvc=ont Projoct
Summory Accounta Coot Suimary
CFA                                   uS8
---------------------------------         ---------------------------    % Foreign
Local    Foroign        Total         Local  Foreign      Total        Eachango
- - - -- - -- - - -- - - ---  ------    ----                - ---- -- --  --  --  -- -- --- --  -- - --  -- -
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
___________________
A. Civil Tlorko
1. HOH Officoe                      17368.6    42631.8    69888.3             60.3    147.6    207.9              71.0
2. PHC Contora                          0.0   179712.0   179712.0              0.0    624.0    624.0             100.8
3. Drug Worchouaoo                      0.0    63913.6    63913.6             08.      187.2    187.2            100 8
------- ---- - -- -- -- -- -- ------     ------ -- -- -- -- --------    ----.-- -- ---
Sub-Totol                               17368.6   276167.4   293613.9            80.3    968.8   1819.1              94.1
8. Furnituro
1. Gonoral/Office Furnituro          4488.7    14976.0    19404.7             16.6      62.0      87.6            78.9
2. PHC 0 HCH Contore                    e.s    38937.a          38937.6        0.8    136.2    136.2             180.8
Sub-Total                                4488.7    53913.8    68402.8            16.8    187.2    202.8              92.3
C. Equipcont
1. Otfico Equipment                    080    11631.6    11631.5               0.9      40.0      40.0           180.0
2. PHC A 1C4 Equipcont                  8.0   108726.8   108726.8              0.0    377.6    377.6             180.0
3. Vohicloe                             8.9    36942.4    36942.4              8.0    124.8    124.8             188.8
4. Modical Equip=nt                      8.0    41184.0    41184.0             0.0    143.0    143.0             180.0
6. Othor Equipont                   14408.9       1198.1    15807.0           60.0       4.2      64.-             7.7
Sub-Total                               14408.9   198681.8   212998.8            60.0    689.6    739.0               93.2
D. Training/Fellovuhip
1. Folloaehipe/Studion                  0.0    2M217.8    20217.0              8.8      70.2      70.2           180.8
E. Technical Aoaiatanco
1. Technical Aooiatanco                 0.8   119809.0   119908.0              0.0    418.0    416.0             188.8
Total !NVESTIIENT COSTS                 36264.1   806378.4   784932.6           126.9   2321.8   2447.7              94.9
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---  - -- - - -- ----- -- - -   -- -- -- -- --- - - - - ---  - ---- -- -     -- -- -- -
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Porsonnol Conta
1. Projoct Uonage=nt Unit           31744.4          8.0    31744.4          118.2       0.0    110.2              0.8
2. Contractualo                     14364.0          0.0    14384.0           49.9       0.0      49.9             0.0
;--- ----- -- -- -- -- -------          -- -- -- -- -- ----------- -      ------- - -- -----
Sub-Total                               48188.4         8.0    46108.4          168.1       8.0    160.1              0.8
B. Conouseoblo Uatrrialo
1. Training liotoriala               2944.9          0.0      2944.9          10.2       0.0      10.2             0.0
2. Othor lotoeriol                   9402.4          8.0      9482.4          32.0       0.8      32.8             0.0
3. Drugo                                 0.0   221644.8   221844.8             9.0     789.6    789.6            188.0
Sub-Total                               12347.4   221644.8   233992.2            42.9    769.6    812.6              94.7
C. Trng Coot A Subointonco
1. In-Country Travol 0 p.d.    160416.7             08.    169416.7         667.0        8.0    667.0              0.0
D. Oporating Coata                     91788.0   218000.0   387780.0            318.7    760.0   1088.7              70.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 310861.4   437844.8   748298.2           1078.7   1619.6   2699.3              68.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                  346996.0  1198323.2  1463228.8           1204.8   3841.4   6046.9              78.1
Physical Contingenciou              3482.8   899032.3   123722.9             128.6    389.1    429.6              72.0
Prico Contingoncioa                 42471.4   103333.0   146804.4            147.4    368.9    698.3              70.9
Total PROJECTS COSTS                  424887.6  1298888.6  1722760.0           1472.6   4509.3   6991.0               76.4
Voluoe Scalod by 1892.0 -----                                                   - -   2=3/1992  =3=-               -
VDluoo Scalcd by I£$.0 -   2/3/1992  13:12



- 25 -
5.2         An IDA credit of USS 5.5 million equivalent would finance about
92X of total project cost, net of taxes. The credit would finance almost
1OOZ of the foreign costs and about 87X of local costs. The balance of
project costs (about US$ 500,000) would be financed by the Government over
a four-year period.  A summary of the financing plan for the project is
shown in Annex VII.
5e3         The project would finance about 40 man-months of
internationally-recruited consultants (at US$10,000/month equivalent) to
assist the Government in implementing various aspects of the project. Terms
of reference for long-term consultants were agreed during appraisal. The
IDA credit would finance incremental recurrent costs on a declining basis
(para. 6.15). Base costs are in January 1991 prices. Physical
contingencies of IO2 on equipment, drugs, materials, vehicles, training,
incremental operating costs and long-term consultants have been included.
Price contingencies for both foreign exchange costs and local currency have
been included at 4X per annum, which is in line with the Bank's present
forecast for the MUV index for France and CFA zone countries during 1990-
95. Cost estimates for rehabilitation and reconstruction works (about US$
333/m2) are based on recent quotations by local contractors, following an
informal tendering organized by MOH, and represent standard construction
costs in EQG where most construction materials are imported. Cost estimates
for other expenditures are based on recent experience with other Bank-
financed projects in EQG and on quotations from suppliers. National staff
salary estimates are based on public service pay scales in EQG and UNDP
local pay scale.
Fiscal Impact of Project on Government Finances
5.4          Systematic underfunding of MOH's non-salary operating costs in
the past has resulted in poor performance of the public health system and
consequent erosion of confidence in the system and dilapidation of health
infrastructure. To re-establish a financial environment in which a new
project could be efficiently implemented, Government would make a
structural increase of CFAF 115 million (about US$400,000 equivalent) in
the budget of MOH to finance non-salary operating costs as of FY92 and
maintain this allocation in subsequent years. This amount was calculated by
MOH at the request of the appraisal mission, and includes the non-wage
recurrent financing requirements needed to establish a sound financial base
for the project and permit the health system to function normally but
excludes drug costs. The country economic team has confirmed that with some
trade-offs, the proposed increase (already discussed with the Finance
Minister by the appraisal mission and recent Bank/Fund economic missions)
can be accommodated in thie Government budget. Over and above the proposed
structural increase, the project itself would generate incremental
recurrent costs, mainly for (non-civil servant) project contractual staff
salaries, short-term consulting services for the project impact evaluation
studies referred to in para. 4.27 (i) and (ii), operating costs of the new
facilities and vehicles, and drugs. These costs would be shared by
Government, IDA and the beneficiaries through cost recovery. Consequently,
the Government would contribute an additional US$ 500,000 (or about US$
125,000 annually) to cover its share of project incremental recurrent
costs. This amount is already budgeted in the 1992-94 public inves, nt
program. The Government has agreed that the incremental allocations to
MOH, to be deposited in a Counterpart Fvmd Account at the Central Bank



26 -
(BEAC), would be consolidated and made available in four quarterly
installments of CFAF 37.7 million each, not later than March 31, June 30,
September 30, and December 31 of each year (Section 3.07 of the Development
Credit Agreement). Non-co!ipliance with this provision would trigger a
suspension of disbursement of IDA funds for drugs and other operating costs
(Paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement). The
opening of the Counterpart Account and the deposit of the first installment
due by March 31, 1992 are a condition of IDA credit effectiveness (Section
5.01 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement). Drug costs are estimated at
about US$ 218,000 annua'ly for the public health care system. The IDA
credit would finance essential generic drugs on a declining basis.
Initially, essential drug supply would be financed by the project at 902 of
total cost, but this would gradually diminish and the health units are
expected to take over responsibility for drug financing as more experience
with cost recovery is gained by them (see para. 6.15). Revenues generated
through cost recovery should effectively cover by the end of the project
all drugs needs in the health centers encompassed by the program. It should
be noted that at 42 of total government budget, EQG's health budget is
considerably lower than the 62 average found in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Further analysis would be conducted under the project to arrive at more
adequate cost and financial norms for the health sector (para. 4.27 (ii)).
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMEN!T
A. Project Preparation
6.1         Under a first Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of
US$500,000 equivalent, approved in October 1988, the MOH set up a high-
level Managing Committee (MC) of MOH's senior managers chaired by the
Minister of Health which undertook preparation activities with the
assistance of specialists in health sector management and organization.
public health, malariology, hospital management and civil works. With the
active participation of the heads of major health programs, it studied and
elaborated recommendations for strengthening the management of MOH within a
proposed new organizational structure, developed an appropriate draft
health strategy and an integrated program to control malaria on Bioko
Island. It prepared a rehabilitation/reconstruction program for 2 rural
health centers in Acurenam district and 2 other health centers in
Micomiseng district, and for the mother and child clinics in Malabo and
Bata to be renovated and re-equipped by the proposed project. An inventory
of all health personnel helped identify gaps in critical management skills
and unfilled vital positions, which would form the basis for the medium-
term staff training program included in the project. The Government's
preparation report was presented to the Bank in June 1990.
6.2         A second PPF was approved by the Bank in June 1990 in the
amount of US$250,000 equivalent to ensure sufficient advancement of project
start-up activities by the time of credit effectiveness. The major
activities to be supported under this second advance were: for civil works,
architectural designs, survey work aid site identification; management and
computer training of local staff appointed to key positions in the project;
elaboration of a comprehensive STD prevention program; and project launch
workshops to be held in Halabo and Bata immediately following Board
approval of the project.



_ 27 -
B. Project Implementation and Management
6.3         The Ministry of Health through its Managing Committee would be
responsible for the overall implementation and management of project
activities, which will be integrated into its existing departments and
services. Given MOH's limited ability to implement Bank-style projects,
the following safeguards were agreed upon during appraisal to ensure timely
and smooth execution of proposed activities:
(i) for the MOH institutional strengthening and health planning components:
6.4         The reorganization of MOH departments, which is at an advanced
stage, would be completed by the time of credit effectiveness. The proposed
Managing Committee of MOH senior managers is already operational under PPF
funds and meets regularly to discuss major sector matters. The
establishment of the planning unit is also underway with the nomination of
the head of the unit and local staff. Spain is expected to make available
to the planning unit a planner/epidemiologist to assist in health data
collection efforts and the preparation of investment plans. France would
extend the contract of the current adviser to the Minister of Health to
work in the planning unit. Both bilateral experts would be deployed in the
line units under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. Draft terms of
reference for the experts were discussed at appraisal and confirmed during
negotiations.
6.5          During the period of project preparation, the Government
established a small team in MOH, headed by a National Coordinator (i.e. the
Director General of Public Health and Planning), responsible for
supervising the consultants' project preparation work, organizing field
trips for project missions and administering the PPF funds. The team
includes an administrator, an accountant, a secretary and a
driver/messenger. The accountant has attended World Bank disbursement and
procurement courses in Washington and is now fully familiar with IDA
disbursement and procurement procedures. At appraisal, the Government
agreed that the team's role be widened to encompass coordination of this
project and future projects under preparation or execution by MOH. The team
is to become the core staff of the proposed permanent administration and
finance unit (AFU) of MOH. AFU would have a limited supporting role to the
Managing Committee focused on keeping project accounts, handling
procurement matters and general administration. The AFU personnel would be
reinforced with an internationally-recruited adviser in finance and
administration under a 18-month contract to be financed by the project, and
an Equato-Guinean trained in logistics with PPF funds. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that the
Managing Committee (MC), the planning unit (PU), and the administration and
finance unit (AFU) would be maintained, and would remain fully staffed
throughout the life of the project (Section 3.08 of the Development Credit
Agreement). The rehabilitation of MOH's offices would be carried out by
private contractors under local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to IDA.
(ii) for the priority health programs:
6.6           The central units of MOH in charge of programs to be
strengthened under the project would have primary responsibility for



- 28 -
program implementation under the technical supervision of MOH's Managing
Committee (paras. 4.5 and 4.6). Particular attention was paid during
preparation to minimizing the need for incremental staff but nomination of
qualified heads and team members of high priority programs would be
required. Ongoing arrangements for implementing existing donor programs
(UHO, Spain, Prance, UNICEF and UNFPA) would be continued under the
proposed project to avoid duplication, and to compensate for HOH's current
weaknesses in implementation capacity. I-HO has agreed to provide technical
assistance to the Government for the implementation of the proposed malaria
control component. A consulting malariologist is already in the country
under PPF financing and a grant from the UNDP to assist in the preparation
of malaria control activities. An extension of his contract for 12 months
is included in the proposed credit. Due to their complexity and high cost,
malaria control activities would be implemented gradually, starting
initially on Bioko island, and expanding to the rest of the country only
when more experience is gained by the Government and resources become
available. The sexually transmitted diseases program would be integrated
into the WHO-sponsored AIDS prevention program, and would be managed by its
Director (a well trained physician) with technical support from WHO's
Global Program on AIDS in Geneva. The reconstruction works ror the PHC/KCH
centers would be carried out by private contractors under acceptable
international (regional) competitive bidding. The operations of the four
rural centers for mother and child health and family planning would benefit
from periodic supervision visits by Spanish physicians working near the
Hicomiseng and Acurenam districts (at least twice a year). The pilot
program of essential drugs would benefit from the Government's ongoing cGst
recovery experiment with village health committees in Acurenam district
under the Bamako Initiative. The essential drug program would initially
focus on the Malabo and Bata hospitals, the six 14CH/PHC centers included in
the project and health units with demonstrated ability to manage cost
recovery funds well. Expansion of the program to other parts of Equatorial
Guinea would be conditional on prior success in the participating centers.
6.7         During appraisal, the Government agreed that the following
indicators would be used to evaluate the effectiveness of the priority
program:
for MCH/FP: the number of prenatal visits by pregnant
women and the number of low birth weight babies born;
-   for malaria control: the number of hospital deaths due to
malaria and the number of pregnant women under malaria
prophylaxis;
-   for human resource development: the number of trainees or
retrainees among the health personnel of MOB in relation
to pre-established targets; and
-   for essential drugs supply: inventory, receipts and
deliveries of drugs in the warehouses at the central,
regional and district levels.



29
(iii for the human resource development component:
6.8         Several courses and training seminars/workshops for local
medical staff and MOH's managers would be carried out. The National School
of Health located in Bata on the Continent would be responsible for
organizing and delivering courses for nurses, auxiliaries and birth
attendants with funding from the project. The school has 22 teachers, three
classrooms (with more planned for next year) and a total capacity of 45 to
50 students per year. The appraisal mission visited the school and found
that teaching and office equipment, and furniture were needed to enable the
school to function efficiently. These additional needs would be financed by
the project. The National School of Health receives technical and
management support from Spain. Training seminars and workshops for
physicians and MOH managers would be organized by MOH with assistance from
WHO as needed. The National School of Health in Bata, the Training Center
in Malabo and other available facilities would be used as venues for the
seminars and workshops. International consultants and staff from the WHO
Regional Office in Brazzaville (Congo) would be retained as instructors.
Annual plans of technical and management training activities for all levels
of H0H staff would be prepared by MOH in consultation with the National
School of Health and discussed with IDA at the beginning of each year based
on the agreed framework and broad guidelines for training MOH st&ff during
the 1992-96 period set out in Annex VI (see paragraph 4.25).
C. Technical Assistance, Training, Fellowships and Studies
6.9         One project expert, the malariologist (12 man-months), is
already on the job under PPF financing and a grant from the UNDP. The
other three experts, namely the financial and administration adviser for
the AFU (18 man-months), the STD specialist (6 man-months) and the
accounting expert (4 man-months) would be recruited by the Government in
accordance with IDA guidelines.
6.10        Courses in program supervision, health project analysis and
evaluation, health planning and management, and accounting would be
organized at the National School of Health in Bata for middle-level MO0
managerial staff, using in-house teachers, internationally-recruited
instructors and trainers from WHO regional office in Brazzaville (Congo).
In addition, about 3 man-months of short-term consultancy are included in
the project for two studies described in para. 4.27 (i) and (ii).
6.11        The Training Division of MOH would manage the fellowship
program referred to in paragraph 4.27 in consultation with the other
technical divisions of MOH. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the Government that for all fellowships to be financed by the project,
it would (a) submit to IDA's approval the functions and qualifications of
the candidates, the curriculum and the training institution for proposed
training; and (b) take all necessary measures to ensure that all
individuals receiving such training remain assigned to posts for which they
were trained for a period of at least three years after completion of
training (Section 3.09 of the Development Credit Agreement).



30
D.    Civil Uorkii
6.12        Under the first PPF tranche, detailed architectural designs,
drawings and bill of quantities for renovation and reconstruction works, as
tiell as preliminary cost estimates were prepared for the four rural health
centers in Acurenam and Micomiseng districts and the MOH building in Malabo
and its Regional office in Bata by a qualified architect from the Ministry
of Public Works. These were reviewed and considered appropriate by the
appraisal mission. The total constructed surface for each of the four
rural health centers would include the dispensary, a small house for the
supervising nurse and public toilets, and would be about 240 ma at a total
estimated cost of US$80,000 per health center (excluding the equipment
cost) or US$333 per m7. These costs are standard coarstruction costs in EQG
where most building materials are imported, and are based on quotations
from local contractors following an informal tender. All project
construction sites have been identified and would be made available for
construction by the Government. The MOH has retained the same architect on
a part-time basis to assist the Managing Committee in preparing and
evaluating bid documents, and in verifying the renovation/reconstruction
progress.
E.    Procurement
6.13        The appraisal mission reviewed the Government's procurement
rules and found them to be generally consistent with those applied by the
Bank. Local competitive bidding procedures permit local advertising, public
bid opening, award to the lowest evaluated bidder, and non exclusion of
foreign bidders if they wish to participate. These procurement practices
have been successfully applied under the project PPF funds for the
procurement of equipment and repair works for the project office. All
goods, works and services financed by the project would be procured in
accordance with IDA guidelines as follows:
(i) Civil works. Contracts for the reconstruction of four rural health
centers would be bulked and awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. A preference
cf 7.5X would be granted to local firms participating in ICB for civil
works. Contracts for the repair of the KOH offices, each estimated to cost
US$50,000 or less and aggregating to US$ 311,000, in which foreign firms
will not be interested, would be awarded following local competitive
bidding (LCB) acceptable to IDA. Local competitive bidding would include
bidders from neighboring countries, e.g. Cameroon and Gabon and any other
countries that may wish to participate;
(ii) Goods. Contracts for vehicles, furniture, equipment, materials and
drugs would be awarded in convenient packages of US$50,000 or more
according to international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures acceptable
to IDA. Exceptions to ICB would be small contracts spread over a period of
time in which foreign firms will not be interested. These will include
contracts with a value of less than US$ 50,000 equivalent and not exceeding
US$177,000 in the aggregate, each of which would be awarded after LCB
according to procedures acceptable to IDA; and small value items costing
less than US$ 10,000 equivalent per contract and aggregating to US$142,000,
which would follow international or local shopping procedures involving



- 31 -
quotations from at least three reputable suppliers. Where feasible,
purchases of drugs and medical equipment would be made through UNICEF
(including pre-packaged supplies from UNIPAC, Copenhagen) which uses
international procurement procedures that are acceptable to IDA; and
(iii) Consulting services. 40 man-months of specialist services totalling
US$497,000 to be financed by the IDA credit would be recruited by the
Government in accordance with IDA guidelines. Procurement arrangements are
summarized in Table 2, below.
Table 2
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ '000 equivalent)
Procurement Methods
Project element             ICB         LCB     Other  N.I.F.°  Total Cost
Civil Uorks                908         311                          1,219
(908)      (311)                         (1,219)
Furniture and
materials                 90                                         90
(90)                                       (90)
Medical/Technical        1,875                                       1,875
Equip. and Drugs    (1,703)                                       (1,073)
Vehicles                   149                                        149
(149)                                      (149)
Technical Assistance                            497k'                 497
(497)                (497)
Training, Fellowships                           773                   773
and Studies                                  (773)                 (773)
Incremental Operating
Costs (travel, subsistence,
supplies, maintenance,
project staff salaries)            300        347                   647
(177)      (142)                (319)
PPF Repayment                                   750                   750
(750)                (750)
TOTALS               3,022           611      2,367                6,000
(2,850)        (488)    (2,162)              (5,500)
aE Employment of technical assistance would be in accordance
with IDA Guidelines.
b/ Includes minor items (repair contracts, office supplies, etc.)
costing US$ 10,000 or less which would be procured internationally or
locally on the basis of price quotations from at least three reputable
suppliers.
* N.I.F.: Not IDA Financed
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the
IDA credit.



- 32 
6.14         To the extent practicable, items to be procured under the
project would be grouped in bid packages of USS 50,000 or more to permit
bulk procurement and to encourage competitive bidding. Review of tender
documents by IDA prior to award would be required for all civil works and
consultant contracts and for contracts for furniture, equipment, vehicles,
materials and drugs costing more than US$ 20,000 equivalent each. Contracts
below the above threshold would be subjected to IDA ex-post review on a
selective basis, i.e. 1 in 5. Although the EQG Government's procurement
rules are considered adequate, past experience with IDA-financed projects
suggests that deviations from the established rules may occur.
Consequently, the following preventive steps are proposed: a) the
Administration and Finance Unit, whose staff is familiar with IDA-style
procurement, would coordinate all procurement activities and would report
on procurement schedules and status every four months; and b) the project
auditors would review the procurement practices under the project and
report to the Government and IDA as part of auditing requirements of the
project.
F. Disbursements
6.15          The project is expected to be implemented over a four-year
period as described in the implementation schedule presented in Annex VI.
The disbursement schedule for the IDA credit conforms with the regional
disbursement profile for EQG. The credit of US$ 5.5 million would be
disbursed against the following items, net of taxes (details in Annex VII,
table 7, 8 and 9):
Disbursements
Amount of Credit
Allocation            X of IDA
Category                        (US$ '000)             Disbursement
1. Civil Works                         1,020        100X of expenditures
2. Furniture, equipment,                 943        10OZ of expenditures
vehicles and materials
3. Drugs                                 631        90X through Dec. 31, 1994,
60X thereafter
4. Consultants' Services,              1,093        100X of expenditures
training and fellowships
5. Incremental Operating Costs           273        90X through Dec. 31, 1993,
(net of salaries)                               60X through Dec. 31, 1995,
302 thereafter
6. Refunding of PPF advance              750       Amount due as specified
in Section 2.02(c) of
the Credit Agreement
7. Unallocated                           790
TOTAL              5,500



- 33 -
6.16        Reimbursement applications to IDA would be fully documented.
Small expenses related to project administration and miscellaneous
operating costs, training workshops and seminars, and contractual services
valued at less than US$ 5,000 equivalent would be reimbursed against
certified statements of expenditures for which documentation would be kept
at the projects support unit for review by IDA supervision missions and the
project auditors. IDA past experience with disbursement in EQG indicates
that while delays in availability of counterpart funds are frequent, actual
withdrawal of IDA funds is quite rapid, reflecting the scarcity of local
funds. However, problems do occur in some projects in connection with the
use of statement of expenditure procedure. Under this project, we propose
to set aside project counterpart funds in a separate bank account
controlled by the 4inistry of Health (see para. 5.4), and to restrict the
use of statement of expenditures to only two categories of eligible
expenditures, and to establish a low ceiling (less than US$ 5,000) for
individual contract amounts reimbursable against certified statements of
expenditures.
G. Project Accounts
6.17         To ensure that financing of small project expenditures is
promptly available, the Government has already established under the PPF a
Project Special Deposit Account at the local commercial bank under the
joint control of the project National Coordinator and the Administrator
(para. 6.5). IDA would deposit an initial amount of USS 50,000 equivalent
upon credit effectiveness, and periodically replenish the account on
receipt and approval of applications for reimbursement covering payments
made from the account for eligible goods, works and services required for
the project. Starting in fiscal year 1992 and during each subsequent year
until project completion, the Government will deposit quarterly CFAF 37.7
million (about US$131,000 equivalent) in a Counterpart Fund Account at the
Central Bank (BEAC) for use by MOH to finance the recurrent non-wage
expenditures of the health sector. Quarterly deposits of Government funds
in the Counterpart Fund Account would be closely monitored by the project
supervision team, and are a condition of continued disbursement of IDA
funds for drugs and incremental operating costs (see para. 5.4).
H. Accounting, Auditin.g and Reporting
6.18        Under the project PPF, MKO  established a basic acconmting plan
for the project and hired a competent accountant (who also followed Bank
disbursement and procurement courses in Washington) to keep the project
accounts, manage PPF funds and handle procurement. However, the scale of
these activities is going to increase when the project starts. It is
therefore necessary to strengthen the accounting capability of MOH. This
would be achieved through the following measures: a) the Government would
establish, before credit effectiveness, an auditable system of accounts for
the Malabo and Bata hospitals and train staff to operate it; b) it would
accelerate the search for a suitable finance adviser included in the
project; and c) would pursue the ongoing work on management systems for the
Malabo and Bata hospitals (with French aid) and establish adequate accounts
for all project operations in accordance with sound accounting practices
(Section 4.01 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement). The AFU would help
the rural health centers of the project establish and keep adequate
accounts for revenues collected through cost recovery in accordance with
accepted accounting practices. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government that it would furnish to IDA annually audits
of the project accounts conducted by independent auditors to be appointed



- 34 -
on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (Section 4.01 (b)(i) of the
Development Credit Agreement). The auditors would also review the
Borrower's compliance with the agreed procurement guidelines of the
project, and report their findings in the annual audit statements.
Certified copies of the accounts and the auditors' report would be
forwarded to IDA for review within six months after the end of each fiscal
year (Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of the Development Credit Agreement). The
appraisal mission reviewed with the Government a short list of audit firms
for auditing of project accounts. An audit firm from that short list would
be retained by the Government. Quarterly reports on the progress of
implementation would be submitted to IDA by the Managing Committee of KOH.
Major project components would be completed by June 30, 1996, and the
closing date for the IDA credit would be December 31, 1998. A project
completion report would be submitted within six months of the closing date.
I. Project Mid-Term Review
6.19        A comprehensive mid-term review of the entire project would be
carried out jointly by Government and IDA not later than June 30, 1994
(Section 3.10 of the Development Credit Agreement). The purpose of the
review will be to: a) refocus the project on outcome objectives; b) if
necessary, identify additional measures needed to accomplish these
objectives; and c) adapt the planning of project execution in line with
capacity and performance in the various project components. The review will
focus on the project's overall performance against established and agreed
key indicators. It will review inter-alia:
(i)   the functioning of the key management structures of MOH
(the Managing Committee (MC) and its two substructures:
the Planning Unit (PU) and the Administration and Finance
Unit (AFU));
(ii)   the progress of cost recovery measures from drug
sales and medical fees and its impact on health
care service quality and utilization;
(iii)   the progress of training activities and the
performance and the productivity of trained staff;
(iv)   the progress of the priority programs, particularly
the MCH/FP, malaria control and essential drugs
supply based on the indicators discussed in para.
6.7; and
(v)   general administration of the project, including
timely availability of counterpart funds and the
use of the Counterpart Fund Account by MOH,
compliance with the agreed procurement and auditing
requirements, maintenance of project assets and
reporting to Government and IDA by MOH.



35 -
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.1         The project is expected to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of health sector operations and to strengthen the
coordination of intra-sectoral activities and donor aid for health and
population. Reinforcing MOH's institutional and management capabilities,
through the creation of the MC, PU and PSU, would lead to better planning
and management of the sector as a whole, and to a more efficient
utilization of the available human, physical and financial resources in
achieving the Government's health objectives. The project would allow the
Government to refine and keep up-to-date the national health strategy which
established quantitative health targets and a frameyork for future donor
interventions in the sector.
7.2         Reinforcing central units in charge of priority health programs
would increase the effectiveness of MOH in addressing health and population
problems, in monitoring and coordinating the aid activities of the donors
and building the latters'confidence in the public health system. The
establishment of regular programs of technical and managerial training for
MOB managers and health professionals would upgrade local staff skills,
reduce dependency on foreign skilled labor and improve productivity and the
overall quality of health services.
7.3         Strengthening and expanding essential primary health care
services to underserved rural populations in Acurenam and Kicomiseng
districts, and to vulnerable groups (mostly women and children under 5) in
Malabo and Bata, would directly improve the quality of and access to basic
health care for about 60,000 people, representing 17X of the total EQG
population. Malaria control activities would directly protect 80,000
people living on Bioko Island from a major public health threat. The
HCB/FP program would contribute to the ambitious goal of halving maternal
and infant death by the year 2000. The increased availability of essential
drugs would raise the credibility of Government health services and lead to
greater recourse to care services by the public, thereby reducing illnesses
and premature deaths from preventable and curable diseases.
B. Risks
7.4         The project would be the first IDA-financed operation in the
health sector in EQG and MOH has no experience in implementing a project of
this scope. There is therefore a risk of delays in implementation. In
addition, MOB9s capacity to plan, manage and coordinate health programs is
weak, and the qualifications of local staff are inadequate. The risks were
first addressed through streamlining of project objectives and a simplified
project design, and would be further mitigated through technical
assistance, training of MB0 staff at all levels, a strong supervisory role
for the Managing Committee of MKO senior managers, annual reviews of the
work programs and a mid-term review of overall performance of the project
as well as intensive supervision by IDA.



- 36 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1         As conditions of IDA credit effectiveness, the Government will:
(i) confirm to IDA formal adoption of MOH's proposed new
organizational structure (para. 4.6);
(ii) make an initial deposit of about CFAF 37.7 million (about
US$131,000 equivalent) in a project Counterpart Fund Account at
the Central Bank (BEAC) for use by the Ministry of Health to
finance the recurrent non-wage expenditures of the health
sector and the direct costs of this project (para. 5.4); and
(iii) establish an auditable system of accounts for the Halabo and
Bata hospitals and train staff to operate it (para. 6.18).
8.2         As conditions of disbursement of IDA funds:
(i) for drug purchases, the Government will submit to IDA
satisfactory decrees introducing essential generic drugs list
and drug prescription guidelines and quality control measures,
and authorizing the retention by individual facilities of funds
generated through drug cost recovery (para. 4.21); and
(ii) for drugs and incremental operating costs, the Government will
deposit quarterly CFAF 37.7 million by March 31, June 30,
September 30, and December 31 of each year during the execution
of the project in the Counterpart Fund Account at the BEAC for
use by MOH to finance its non-wage recurrent expenditures
(para. 5.4).
8.3         During negotiations, further assurances were obtained from the
Government that:
(i) it will prepare and submit to IDA a plan of action to extend
the fee policy applied at the Malabo and Bata hospitals to
other hospitals not latee than December 31, 1993, and implement
such plan, satisfactory to IDA, not later than June 30, 1994
(para. 4.11);
(ii) it will review with IDA in October of each year (i)
all investment expenditures made in the health
sector in the previous year and those planned for
the coming three years, with parti:ular attention
being given to their recurrent cost implications;
and (ii) the allocation of the recurrent budget
across existing programs and services to cover at
least their estimated annual operating costs for
materials, drugs, fuel, maintenance, etc.
(para. 4.12);
(iii) it will submit to IDA for its review by March 31,
1993 a new list of nwtional essential generic
drugs, guidelines on prescriptions, norms for
imported drugs and tite qualifications of
pharmacists and their assistants (para.4.20);



- 37 -
(iv) it will evaluate annual technical and management
training activities undertaken during the previous
year and furnish to IDA for its review and approval
by October of each year revised plans based on that
evaluation (para.4.25);
(v) the Managing Committee (MC), the planning unit (PU)
and the administration and finance unit (AFU) will
be maintained, and will remain fully staffed during
the life of the project (para.6.5);
(vi) it will submit to IDA staff nomination proposals
for the four rural health centers to be
reconstructed under the project not later than
December 31, 1993 (para. 4.17);
(vii) for all fellowships to be financed under the
project, it will (i) submit to IDA for its review
the functions and qualifications of the candidates
and the curriculum for the proposed training, and
(ii) take all necessary measures to ensure that all
individuals receiving such training remain assigned
to posts for which they were trained for a period
of at least three years after completion of
training (para.6.11); and
(viii) it will have the project accounts and the health
centers's accounts for the revenues collected
through cost recovery, and compliance with the
agreed procurement rules under the project, audited
each fiscal year by competent and independent
auditors, and will furnish audit reports to IDA
within six months after the end of each fiscal year
(para.6.18); it will jointly with IDA hold a mid-
term review of the entire project not later than
June 30, 1994 (para. 6.19).
(ix) it will obtain IDA's prior approval for any hospital
renovation/construction estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$ 1.5 million or mare (para. 4.12)
8.4         Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a credit of US$ 5.5 million on standard IDA
terms.
AFIPH
February 6, 1992



-38-
ANNEX I
EQUATORLAL GUINEA
HEALTH IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Total Area                                  28,051 km2
Total Population (1990)                     350,000 inhabitants
Density per kma                             10.7 inhsabitants
Rate of Natural Increase in Population       2.4 X
Total Fertility Rate                         5.6 per woman
Crude Birth Rate (live births per 1000
pop.)                    43
Crude Death Rate (deaths per 1000 pop.)    19
Infant Mortality Rate (0-5 deaths per
1000 pop.)              120
Life Expectancy at Birth                    48.5 years
Urban Population as X of total
population              37 Z
Adult Literacy Rate (1985 estimate
ratio)                  20 X
Primary School Enrollment
(1985 estimate)         73 2
Age Structure (1990)
0  - 14 years                        44 Z
15 - 64 years                       53 2
65 and over                           3 X
Population per Physician                    3,889
Population per Nurse                        1,977
Daily per Capita Calorie Supply
(as 2 of requirement)   78
Per Capita Gross National Product (1990)  US$ 346
Sources: General Directorate of Statistics, Equatorial Guinea
Staff Appraisal Report No. 6611-EG, Equatorial Guinea Primary
Education Project, April 24, 1987



-39-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
EQUATORI  GUINEA: HEALTH IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
GOVERNMENT HEALTH SECTOR STRATEGY
1.    INTRODUCTION
The period from 1969 to 1979 marked an era of deterioration and
disarray in the area of public health as in the rest of the sectors,
thereby eroding much of the capital accrued by the country over the past
several decades.
The country's health infrastructure consists of two regional, four
provincial, and 11 district hospitals; a leprosarium; a public health
school; a staff training center; and 147 dispensaries and health care
posts. Most of this infrastructure needs to be refurbished and put on a
maintenance schedule.
Despite the high priority and significant quantity of resources
the donor community assigns to the sector, the country's health status
fails to show any appreciable improvement.
The principal problems which plague the health sector are:
1.    The high incidence of certain infectious diseases, such as
malaria, diarrheal and bronchopulmonary disorders, tuberculosis,
intestinal parasites, filariasis, and the like, which continue to
keep the overall mortality rates high--particularly in children,
for whom the figure remains stubbornly high at 120 per thousand.
2.    The limited quantity and poor quality of potable water supply in
most of the cities and almost all of the rural area.
3.    The absence of a national basic sanitation program, resulting in
the high morbidity and mortality rates for malaria, diarrhea, etc.
4.    Malnutrition and undernourishment of a large percentage of the
child population.
5.    The lack of a standard system for procurement, storage, and
distribution of medical care materials and essential drugs.
6.    The low coverage of health services despite the large number of
hospitals. due to the lack or poor quality of intra-district
communications media.
7.    Tardy availability of the budgetarr resources allocated.



-40-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
8.    The lo- output of a large percentage of the staff.
9.    The lack of coordination mechanisms beteeen sectors; between the
Ministry and the technical cooperation programs; and between the
technical cooperation programs.
10.   The absence  of hospital regulations and statutes governing health
care personnel.
11.   Deterioration of the physical infrastructure of some of the
hospitals and the limited capacity of others.
2. GOVERNMENT GOALS OF HEALTH FOR ALL
In view of the country's major health problems, the Government
reaffirms its policy for this sector pursuant to the spirit of Chapter
II, Article 60 of the Basic Laws of Equatorial Guinea and the Decre-Law
on the Juridical System of State Central Administration. It also
reaffirms the commitment acquired through signature of the 1978 Alma-Ata
Declaration on primary health care.
Article 60 of the Basic Law states that since it is the State's
duty to protect the health of its citizens, the Government must assume
responsibility for organizing the public health system--a task entrusted
to the Health Ministry by the Basic Sanitation Law.
The Government recognizes the people's right and duty to
participate individually and collectively in the planning and delivery
of health care, as well as its own obligation to see to the health needs
of its citizens, thus requiring the adoption of appropriate sanitary and
social measures. One of the chief social objectives is to ensure that
the population achieves a level of health enabling each individual to
have a decent and economically productive social life.
3.    PRINCIPLES OF HEALTH FOR ALL
The Government believes that Primary Health Care is the key to
attainment of this goal as a part of development.
Primary Health Care consists of the assistance made available to
all individuals and families by whatever means may be acceptable to
them, with their full participation, and at a cost which they can meet.
1hile Primary Health Care is the heart of the health care system, it is
also part of the nation's economic and social development. It provides
the promotion, prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation services
necessary to solve the principal health care problems. At the same
time, it includes the following elements, as a minimum: education about
these problems, preventive measures, and the corresponding campaigns;
promotion of an adequate supply of food and suitable nutrition
guidelines; ample supplies of potable water and basic sanitation
facilities; assistance to mother and child; immunization against the



-41-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
principal infectious diseases; prevention of and campaigns against
disease and common injuries; and a supply of essential drugs.
4.    DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
The public health policy adopted by the Government as a part of
its global development policy has restructured the health care system in
such a way that Primary Health Care is its centerpiece.
Article 60 of the Basic Law makes the State responsible for
protecting its citizens' health. The consequent undertaking to organize
public health care in entrusted to the Ministry of Health by the Basic
Health Care Law.
the Government recognizes that its people have the right and duty
to participate--individually and collectively--in planning and delivery
of their health care. It also recognizes its obligation to see to the
people's health and the need to adopt appropriate social and sanitation
measures for that purpose. One of the principal social objectives is to
ensure that the health status of the population is such that all of its
citizens can enjoy decent and economically productive social lives.
The Government considers Primary Health Care to be the key factor
in achievement of that development goal.
Proper delivery of Primary Health Care requires that the national
health system be reorganized in such a way as to facilitate the access
of all citizens to basic health services. The health care system is
thus structured in three areas, in which care will be provided at three
levels of increasingly complex services:
Level 1: Health care post, or point of contact between the system and
the community.
Level 2: Health center or technical support center for the health
care posts.
Level 3: Hospitals or centers that provide specialized care, and are
in turn divided into three categories: district,
provincial, and regional.
5.    ESSENTIAL FEATURES OF THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
The overall objective of the new health care system--designed
starting in 1986, the date When the global development strategy in
effect at that time was approved--is to extend its services to all
Equato-Guineans. To that end, it is planned to set up 40 dispensaries
or health centers and 358 health care posts, thereby ensuring a primary
level facility for every six hundred members of the rural population.



-42-
ANNEX I I
Page 4 of 10
The otrategy affects all sectors whose activities play a part in
the health picture. Hence the composition of the Health Care
Committees, as we shall see further on.
The specific aims of the new system are:
1. To develop a full-fledged, three-.tier system of Primary Health
Care and to coordinate the efforts currently under way.
2. At the first level: trainbig of health care agents; construction
of health care posts with community participation; and development
of the eight components of Primary Care.
3.  At the second level:  Construction of dispensaries; training of
sanitary technical assistants; primary care activities in
conjunction with the dispensary; supervisory duties; and community
participation.
4. At the third level:  Hospitals, and the rehabilitation thereof;
recyclir.& of personnel; integrationL of primary care activities in
the hospital (SKI, PAV, etc.); the provision of technical support
at the informal levels; and specialized assistance for patients
transferred from level two.
S.  At the central level.  Directorate General of Public Health and
Planning; coordination of the overall program, including
intersectoral efforts.
Institutional Setup (centr~al level). Execution, supervision,
evaluation, and probable reformulation will be the responsibility
of the Directorate General of Public Health and Planning in the
first instance and the National Coordinator for the Program in the
second instance.
2. Regional Level: the regional coordinators will be responsible.
3. District Level: responsibility lies wyith the district
coordinators or District Health Committees.
4. Local Level: the Primary Health Care Committees are
responsible.
In addition to the groups cited above, the Ministry may, at the
proposal of the Directorate General of Public 'Health and Planning, set
up national and regional Healtb Care Committees and appoint individuals
to be responsible for specific activities in health service organs or
staff. Such coumittees will include not only health sector workers, but
representatives of all sectors whose activities affect the health area,
such as: education, public works, agriculture, promotion of women'ls
activities, etc.



-43-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
6.    OPERATIONAL OBJECTIVES
To permit resolution of priority health problems, the Government
has set improved operation of the health system the general objective
for the 1990-1994 period, using Primary Health Care as the central
nucleus. The specific objectives are described in the following
paragraphs.
* Extension of health care coverage to the entire ECG population
This will be achieved first of all by improving the quality of
care provided by existing hospitals; and, secondly, by establishing 40
health centers and 358 health posts throughout the country, so that
there will be a health center for every six thousand inhabitants and a
health post for every six hundred rural dwellers. Insofar as possible,
the health centers will be located at a maximum distance of 30
kilometers from each other, or from the health center to the nearest
hospital. An attempt will nevertheless be made to reduce the number of
health centers sharply if the means of communication in the interior of
the particular district so permit.
The sanitary system is divided into four regions, and health care
is delivered at three increasingly complex service levels.
* Ensure potable water supply and basic sanitation facilities for at
least 211 of the population. It is estimated that only 4X of the
population have potable water service at present.
Given the incidence of water-borne disease, particularly among the
infant population, the Government places priority on making potable
water available to cities and rural areas. Equal priority is attached
to the problem of basic sewer systems, particularly in the cities of
Halabo and Bata. Specifically, the Government plans:
a)  To rehabilitate the Malabo water supply system, providing it with
a management body that will ensure an acceptable quantity and
quality of water supply.
b) To complete work on the new water supply system for the city of
Bata and set up its management agency.
c) To design water supply rehabilitation or construction projects in
the rest of the provincial and district capitals.
d) To continue and intensifv the program already under way in the
context of Primary Health Care, consisting of the construction of
wells for potable water and sanitary latrines in all of the small
towns throughout the country.
e) To start operating the National Water Supply and Sanitation
Committee that had been created by presidential decree.   Its work
is essential, both for coordination of governmental activities in
the areas of water supply and environmental sanitation and for



-44-
ANNEX XI
Page 6 of 10
coordination of the various international cooperation programs in
the oubsector.
f) To seek better utilization of the environmental sanitation agents
trained jointly by the Ministries of Sanitotion and Territorial
Administration and Telecoxmiunications, witb &he help of
international technical assistance.
g)  To extend the waste collection program instituted in Malabo more
than a year ago to the city of Bata, and improve the operation
thereof.
Given the enormous financial input needed to execute water supply
projects, the Government plans to set up an Emergency Fund that
would be fed by contributions from all external credits and
donations received by the country. The corresponding percentage
would be set by agreement with the donors. Management of the Fund
could be assigned to a subcommittee of the National Water and
Sanitation Committee and representatives of the donors. It is
believed that all of the projects submitted to the round table in
the subsector could be financed by a mere 2.52 of the credits and
donations.
h) To prepare rehabilitation and construction projects where needed
in connection with sewage disposal systems.
*   To guarantee supplies of drugs required by the population.
This will be achieved by setting up facilities for the warehousing
and distribution of pharmaceuticals throughout the country. It should,
however, be noted that reorganization and heightened efficiency of the
Empresa Guiprofesa, a division of INSESO which imports and distributes
specialized pharmaceutical products, would largely resolve this problem.
The Government is also drawing up an official list of the
country's essential drugs, and plans to revise the ministerial order
regulating exercise of the pharmacy profession in Equatorial Guinea.
* To reduce the general mortality rate--with particular emphasis on
iLfant mortality, which must be cut by SOX.
To this end, the Government plans to extend and intensify the
Primary Health Care program in such a way as to carry out its eight
componentst education about the principal health problems and the
corresponiding methods to prevent and combat them; promotion of the
supply of food products and proper nutrition; adequate potable water
supply and basic sanitation facilities; maternal and child health care;
immunization against the major transmissible diseases--with special
attention to the campaign against malaria, given its high morbidity and
mortality rates and its adverse impact on the output of its victims,
which make it particularly important to the nation's production figures;
the struggle against diarrheal and bronchopulmonary disease; appropriate



/5-
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
treatment of common injuries and disorders; and the supply of essential
drugs.
To improve the quality of care at hospital centers
To accomplish this objective, the Government intends to:
a) Provide the proper equipment for those centers in collaboration
with international cooperation programs;
b) Continue the programs for training and refresher courses for
health care staff and improvement of their working conditions;
c) Regulate the supply of medical material and essential drugs,
seeking to ensure that the Health Ministry actually receives the
resources budgeted;
d) Provide patients with constant supplies and quality of food
products;
e) Compile and approve hospital regulations;
f) Compile and approve statutes for health care personnel;
g) Complete rehabilitation of the physical infrastructure of all
hospital centers, and set up the corresponding maintenance system;
h) Upgrade the performance of auxiliary diagnosis staff (clinical
analysis laboratories, radiology facilities, etc.)
i) Establish a system of technical coordination between national
professional staff and the cooperation programs.
*   Reduce the malnutrition rate for children under five years of age
from the present 16X to 3.2Z.
The problem of malnutrition in children is one of the most
important factors in the country's infant mortality and morbidity rates,
thus warranting special attention on the part of the Government. The
problem is believed to be mainly due to the fact that many parents are
unaware of proper nutrition for children, rather than the scarcity of
food. As a result, the Government plans:
a) To set up a national health education program on proper diet
guidelines for children.
b) To carry out agricultural projects embodying heightened awareness
of the nutritional value of the nation's food staples.
c) To continue the programs to boost production of national food
crops.



-46-
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
d) To seek joint action on the part of the Ministries of Health and
Agriculture, Fishery, and Forestry.
* Continue the training program
The Government plans to pursue this objective by strengthening the
Bata Health Care School, widening the range of specialized fields and
increasing the number of professional staff to be retrained abroad or in
specialized areas, with particular emphasis on management and
administration of health care and hospital services and public health
facilities.
t   Secure participation of all relevant sectors in health care
activities
To achieve this aim, the Government will issue a presidential
decree se.ting up the National Health Council, as contemplated in the
Basic Health Law, which is to be revised during the period for
implementation of this strategy. However, the following activities of
health-related sectors will be given priority in accordance with the
different departments cited below:
Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources, and Fishery: projects to
increase the yield of fishery as a means of correcting the protein
shortfall of the national diet.
Territorial Administration and Communications: the use of local
agencies to achieve a significant improvement in the environment and to
ensure the availability of suitable quantities and quality of potable
water.
Public vorks, Housing, Urban Development, and Transportation: technical
support for local agencies in solving the potable water supply problem
and improving the road and transportation infrastructure in rural areas
to help implement the primary health care project.
Education and Sports: inclusion of adult education with elements of
health care in its priorities and incorporation of health education in
the basic general teaching program.
Industry and Promotion of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises: promotion
of the establishment of industrial development. complexes in rural areas
with a view to increasing the income of the local inhabitants.
Information. Tourism, Art, and Culture: collaboration with the Hinistry
of Health to establish permanent health education programs in addition
to spot highlighting of recommended hygiene habits.
Finance, Trade, and Planning: to guarantee that the resources budgeted
for the Ministry of Health will be available when needed. The
Department policy should emphasize the priority status of health sector
projects and provide preferential treatment for imports of medical
equipment and drugs.



-47-
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Directorate General of Public Functions and Administrative Reform:
support to the MOH in its staff training programs and a reminder of the
shortage of middle and upper technical personnel in the health care
service.
Justice and Worship: enlistment of support and incentives for churches
to participate in health activities.
Foreign Affairs and Cooperation: provision of the necessary support for
the KOH in obtaining technical and financial support from international
organizations and friendly countries.
W Improved coordination between the Hinistry and the international
cooperation programs
This will be achieved by entrusting the ccordination duties to a
single department of the Ministry, such as the Directorate General
through the service for Planning, Coordination and Monitoring of
Projects--the unit which in turn acts as the permanent advisory body for
the Ministry.
In addition to coordinating the cooperation activities with those
of the Ministry, it will also coordinate those of the various
cooperation projects themselves, particularly the ones financed by a
combination of agencies, seeking at all times to make prudent use of the
resources available.
*   Strengthening of the project planning, coordination, and
monitoring service
Proper application of this strategy requires the existence of a
planning unit within the Ministry which would be solely and exclusively
responsible for the planning, coordination, and monitoring of projects.
The unit will work with all international cooperation received by the
sector, Its existence, however, should not dampen the possibility of
planning in the peripheral area as well. The unit should emphasize the
need to improve statistical service, since this is a vital part of the
planning base.
implementation of the strategy in question calls for immediate
execution of such priority activities as:
a)  The Government's official adoption of the Primary Health Care
Program that was duly approved by the Directing Council of the
Hinistry.
b)  Issue of a decree constituting the National Health Council and
implementation thereof as a basis for intersectoral coordination.
c)  Creation and institution of a medical supply system to guarantee
permanent satisfaction of all the health centers' needs and to
ensure quick transmittal of information from the central to the
peripheral levels and vice versa.



-48-
Page 10 of 10
d) Effective regionalization of the national health care service,
decentralizing the decision-making process.
e) Establishment of standards that facilitate and encourage active
participation of health care personnel, both within the service
and as independent workers, in application of this strategy.
f) A campaign to ensure that all activities conducted in the sector
during the application of this strategy are designed to accomplish
its objectives.
The Government acknowledges the Hinistry of Health as the agency
responsible for the country's health care policy, and therefore grants
it the necessary autonomy to adopt any measures necessary to attain the
objectives cited. The MOB is also entrusted with coordination of the
activities of other sectors which affect the health of the citizens, and
coordination of those of the Ministry of Health with the international
public health cooperation projects under way in the country.
In keeping with the spirit of the 1978 Declaration of Alma-Ata,
the Government recognizes that it would be impossible to achieve the
objectives envisaged in this strategy without international
collaboration. It therefore calls on the international community for
technical and financial support to the Republic of Equatorial Guinea to
help implement the plan of action resulting from our country's health
care strategy from now until the year 2000, particularly since its
socioeconomic development process to date has already taken 11 years.
Finally, the Government recognizes that would be utterly
impossible to accomplish the objectives and goals of our health care
policy without whole-hearted participation of the Equato-Guinean
population. It therefore appeals to all of its citizens to share with
it the responsibility of reaching a health status by the year 2000 that
will allow all of us to enjoy socially and economically productive
lives.



Equatorial Guinea
Health Improvement Project
Ministry of Health Organizational Structure
EXrERNAS.SEO                                  C S        ACIONAL
87   ;                      |         (~~~~~~~~~-Inlermms/na
MINISTRO
*COOPERACIONESDRETV
EXERA              .) .t .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .... ...............  CONSEJO DIRECTIVO 
- BENEFICIARIOS
*COMITE DEr
DESARROLLO                                                  SECRETARIO
COMUNITARIO                                                   GENERAL
DIRECTOR GENERAL
DE SANIDAD
INSPECCIONON
COORDINACION
PLANIFICACION                                       HOSPITALARIA
PERSONAL                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENFERMERIA
|  PERSONAL     r                                  r                               HOSPITALARIA
Fomiacin  R. Hum
EsNadist ca
- ADMINISTRACION                           Plandficacion
- FINANZAS                          Coord Ayuda Exter
l                   l                  1          ~~~~~~~~~~~~FARMACiA
|  EPIDEMIOLOGIA      t   .                      L  Registro
MATE RIALFS Y     _                                                               lFarmacia
MANTENIMIENTO                                                                         Suministros
_____________________        Vigilancia  Epide.                                lse co
Grandes Endemias
Enier Sexuales
ARCHIVOS                         Transmis y Sida
A P S.                                         LABORATORIOS
SMI/Plan F                                 L    b. Salud Pblica
Educacion Sanita                                  .S VeSerinadia                                                           I,
Enfermeria Salud Pub.                                  S Medicna Tradicional|
Salud Buco-Denlal -                                                                                                         I T
EDA. PAV, IRA -
Saneamienlo Ambiental -
DELEGACIONES
REGIONALES
sads/w48402



-50-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 42
ORGANIC REGULATIONS OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
TITLE ONE
POWERS AND GENERAL ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
CHAPTER ONE
POWERS OF THE MINISTRY
ARTICLE 1 - a) The Ministry of Health has the general objective of
organizing the health services in a comprehensive manner to achieve growing
levels of well-being for the population by raising their life expectancy and
improving their biological and intellectual capacities as the foundation of
useful productive life for the family, society and the country.
b) The Executive Branch of Government is responsible for defining national
health policy and organizing, coordinating and exercising highest authority over
the health services of the country. It shall exercise such functions by means
of the Ministry of Health, which for the purposes of these regulations shall be
called the "Ministry."
CHAPTER TWO
SPECIFIC POWERS OF THE MINISTRY
ARTICLE 2 - The specific powers of the Ministry are:
a) To promote and protect the health of all inhabitants of the country by
carrying out all preventive activities suited to that purpose.
b) To restore and rehabilitate the good health of people affected by
diseases or damages to health by establishing whatever curative services are
necessary throughout the geographic area of the country.
c) To promote among individuals, families and communities an understanding
of and responsibility for protecting and improving health as a basic component
of well-being.
ARTICLE 3 - The general powers of the Ministry are the following:
a) To prepare and approve the planning which puts in specific form the
national policy on health and to evaluate and supervise its implementation for
later submission to the Council of Ministers for consideration.
b) To issue the technical standards in the area of health of an individual
and general nature and organize the regular and special measures and provisions
which are technically appropriate to safeguard the health of the people.



-51-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 42
c) To exercise -.ntrol and inspection over the activities of individuals
and corpsrate bodies in matters of health for the purpose of ensuring the
enforcement of pertinent laws, regulations and standards.
d) To conduct inspection and regulation of medical assistance institutions
which deliver general h'-alth activities that are either supported or subsidized,
fully or partially, by the state or by the city governments, or by public funds
of any type.
e) To conduct health activities in the area of preventive medicine without
prejudice to those conducted by other institutions.
f) To offer health services in curative and rehabilitative medicine through
agencies created for that purpose, without prejudice to those performed by other
institutions.
g) To conduct all actions and activities and issue general and individual
measures aimed at conserving ana improving the environment, with an eye on
protecting individual health.
h) To maintain a statistics system in matters of health, for which purpose
all institutions engaging in public and private health actions are obligated to
remit any data that the Ministry might request, in conformity with applicable
regulations.
i) To coordinate with public and private institutions, both national and
international, the implementation of health activities in the country.
J) To promote and program the improvement of technical preparation of
personnel needed for full performance of their functions and coordinate the
preparation of the human resources of the Ministry with other national and
international institutions.
k) To approve, inspect and control public and private services that protect
and revitalize health, such as water systems, cesspools, waste water, housing and
medical care facilities.
1) To promote activities in scientific and technical research and
administration aimed at providing adequate support for the specific activities
of the Ministry.
m) Any other which the law or the regulations might stipulate.



52-
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 42
TITLE TWO
ORGANIZATION
CHAPTER ONE
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT ORGANS
ARTICLE 4 - For attainment of its objectives and efficient development of
its functions, the Ministry shall have in its organizational structure the
following senior officials at the management level:
a)    Minister of Health.
b)    Secretary General of Health.
CHAPTER TWO
CONSULTING AND ADVISORY BODIES
ARTICLE 5 - To contribute to best attainment of its objectives, the
Ministry shall have a level of consultation and advisory services made up of the
following units:
a)    National Health Council.
b)    Managing Committee.
c)    Technical Advisory Office
CHAPTER THREE
SENIOR EXECUTION ORGANS
ARTICLE 6 - For best performance of its objectives and functions, the
Ministry shall have an executive management and supervisory level composed of:
a)    A Directorate General of Health and Planning.
b)    Two Regional Health Delegations (Island and Continental).
c)    Seven Provincial  Health Delegations:   Bioko North,  Bioko South,
Annobon, Coastal, Central-South, Wele Nzas and Kie Ntem.
CHAPTER FOUR
DECENTRALIZED EXECUTION BODIES
ARTICLE 7 - For execution of programs and activities at the city and town
level, the Ministry shall have the following units:



-53-
ANNEX III
Page 4 of 42
a)    Regional hospitals.
b)    Provincial hospitals.
c)    District hospitals.
d)    Health centers.
e)    Health posts.
CHAPTER FIVE
DECENTRALIZED CONSULTING BODIES
ARTICLE 8 - To ensure that its actions are performed as objectively as
possible in accordance with the real needs of the population and fullest possible
community participation, the Ministry shall have the following community
consultation units:
a)    Provincial Health Councils.
b)    District Health Councils.
CHAPTER SIX
SUPPORT UNITS
ARTICLE 9 - To contribute to execution of its actions and attainment of its
objectives, the Ministry shall have the following logistical support units:
a)    Personnel Section.
b)    Administration and Finance Section.
c)    Files and Records Section.
d)    General Services and Maintenance Section,
e)    Material Resources Section.
TITLE THREE
DEFINITION, OBJECTIVES AND FUNCTIONS OF EXECUTIVE
MANAGEMENT ORGANS
CHAPTER ONE
MINISTER OF HEALTH
ARTICLE 10 - The Minister of Health is the senior executive of the
Ministerial Department under the Office of the President of Government, and his



-54-
ANNEX III
Page 5 of 42
non-specific powers are stipulated in Article 21 of the Law on Legal Regimen of
the Central State Administration.
ARTICLE 11 - The Minister of Health has the basic purpose of directing the
Ministerial Department and seeing to implementation of its objectives and
efficient development of its functions by means of the different organizational
units attached to the Ministry and the involvement of other state organs.
ARTICLE 12 - The functions of the Minister of Health are the following:
a)    Direct the formulation of health policy proposals and bring them
before senior government bodies for approval and adoption.
b)    Direct the planning and programming of the several activities of the
Ministry in general and approve the work plans and programs of the
different administrative units or organs of the same.
c)    Organize  and distribute  among  his  subordinates  the variety of
functions and activities of the Ministerial Department.
d)    Delegate responsibilities and authority to the staff of the health
area.
e)    Watch over efficient execution of the functions of the Ministerial
Department and its plans and prog-ams.
f)    Manage the distribution of resources needed for normal operation of
the different ministerial offices.
g)    Authorize the exercise of the professions of medicine, veterinary
medicine and pharmacy in Equatorial Guinea.
h)    Authorize the installation and operation of clinics, polyclinics,
pharmacies, drugstores and other health establishments without
prejudice to the areas of authority of the Office of the Presidency
of the Republic relating to investment of foreign capital.
i)    Authorize imports of drugs as well as unregistered medical-surgical
products after hearing the opinion of the Directorate General of
Health and its Pharmacy Section.
J)    Preside over the meetings of the Executive Council of the Ministry
of Health.
k)    After hearing the opinion of the Directorate General of Health,
declare all states of epidemics, through the National Health
Council.
1)    Designate to the National Health Council all members not so entitled
by virtue of position.



-55-
ANNEX III
Page 6 of 42
m)    Advise, in the area of public health, the President of the Republic,
the Chamber of Representatives of the People, the Council of
Ministers and all other organs or authorities of the Republic.
n)    Conduct all tasks and activities within his competence and assume
the responsibilities that the President of the Republic entrusts or
delegates to him.
I)    Maintain high morale among his immediate subordinates and staff in
general by means of communications and discipline within the staff.
o)    Maintain communication and coordinate activities with the senior
organs of the central state administration and the other ministries.
p)    Guide and manage all amendments of the present organic regulations
and any other administrative work tool of the Ministry of Health.
q)    Comply with and enforce the laws of the republic, with special
emphasis on the health area and on all powers conferred to him by
those laws.
CHAPTER TWO
SECRETARY GENERAL OF HEALTH
ARTICLE 13 - The Secretary General of Health is the senior officer of the
Ministerial Department under the Minister, to whom he reports: his powers are
stipulated in Article 26 of the Law on Juridical Regimen of the Central State
Administration.
ARTICLE 14 - The functions of the Secretary General of Health are the
following:
a)    Collaborate with the Minister and with the Executive Council of the
Ministry in formulating the policy, strategy, plans, programs and
projects for the public health of the country.
b)    Direct, in accordance with the instructions of the Minister, the
general plan of action of the Ministry.
c)    Supervise and control the execution of all functions, plans and
programs of the Ministerial Department.
d)    Act as chief of all personnel attached to the Ministry and resolve
all matters referred to him.
e)    See to it that the several units and organs of the Ministerial
Department are provided, through the appropriate actions, the human,
material and financial resources they need to perform their



56-
ANNEX III
Page 7 of 42
functions, along with the services for documents and files, grounds
and maintenance, and logistics in general.
f)    Prepare the annual report on the activities of the Ministry, using
the information furnished by its several offices.
g)    Propose all changes aimed at improving and advancing the services
provided by the Ministry in its organization and work methods.
h)    Serve as communications liaison between the Ministry of Health and
the other Ministerial Departments.
i)    See to correct and timely execution of the ministerial budget and
manage all changes to it that are necessary.
J)    Keep minutes of the working meetings of the Executive Council and of
the National Health Council.
k)    Perform the tasks and assume the responsibilities conferred to his
position by law or which the Minister assigns or delegates to him.
CHAPTER THREE
INSPECTOR GENERAL OF HEALTH SERVICES
ARTICLE 15 - The Inspector General of Health Services, who reports to the
Secretary General of Health, shall perform the following functions:
a)    By delegation of senior ministerial authority, inspect services in
accordance with the plans and programs and report on the findings of
such inspections.
b)    Supervise the attainment of the goals and execution standards set
out in the laws and regulations of the Ministry of Health and those
entrusted to him by delegation.
c)    Provide reports to his superiors on supervision, compliance with
standards of efficiency and rationality in the performance of the
budget goals.
d)    Be a member of the Technical Committee on Project Coordination and
External Cooperation.
e)    Advise senior authorities of the Ministry of Health on systems,
studies, reports, and projects within his area of authority so as to
facilitate adequate decision-making.
f)    Execute all those specific activities assigned to him by senior
ministerial authority.



-S57-
ANNEX III
Page 8 of 42
TITLE FOUR
DEFINITION, OBJECTIVES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE
CONSULTING AND ADVISORY BODIES
CHAPTER ONE
NATIONAL HEALTH COUNCIL
ARTICLE  16  - a)  The  National  Health  Council  is  a multisector  and
interdisciplinary collegiate body which is consultive and advisory in nature for
the senior authority of the Ministry of Health, and is presided over by the
Minister of Health; it has the following composition:
Chairman:   Minister of Health
Secretary:   Secretary General of the Ministry of Health
Members:    Minister of Education, Youth and Sports
Minister of Labor and Social Action
Minister of Promotion of Women
Minister of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Forests
Minister of Territorial Administration and Communications
Minister of Public Works, Housing and Urban Affairs
Minister of Culture, Tourism, and Handicrafts Promotion
Minister of National Defense
Minister of Economy, Trade and Planning
Director General of Health
Director General of Press, Radio and Television
b)    The members of the National Health Council, with the exception with
those belonging to the Ministry of Health, shall be appointed by the
Office of the President of the Government.
c)    All decisions, conclusions and resolutions of the National Health
Council are strictly matters of advice or recommendation in nature.
Their legality is set out in Base II of the Law on Health Basis.
ARTICLE 17 - The objectives of the National Health Cour.cil are to advise
the senior authorities of the health area on any type of idea, subject or problem
for which these consider it necessary to hear opinions or receive advisory
assistance and to achieve multisector commitment and coordination in the
resolution of public health problems which are not specific to the health sector.
ARTICLE 18 - The following functions are defined for the National Health
Council:
a)    Assist the Minister of Health in the area of health planning and
implementation of individual plans and programs.



-58-
ANNEX III
Page 9 of 42
b)    Attend directly, through the institutions, to all matters relating
to encouraging and promoting the social and economic conditions that
allow full development of human capacity, that is, physical, mental,
intellectual, emotional and social in general, all done in
accordance with historic opportunities of economic and technological
advancement of society.
c)    Guarantee that the country has services for promotion, conservation,
recovery and rehabilitation of health, with adequate technical
quality and broadest possible legal, geographic, cultural and
commercial coverage.
d)    See to it that the country makes the best possible use of the
resources the society sets aside for the people and the
preservation, recovery and amelioration of their health:
-     By  defining   the  appropriations   to   institutions   and
organizations.
-     By defining the priorities of health functions and activities.
-     By promoting final and efficient coordination among health
sector institutions.
-     By supervising and controlling the use of public and private
resources.
-     By  encouraging  community  participation  in health  and by
channelling the contributions and suggestions of local and
private organizations in matters of importance to the health
of the people.
-     By guiding the administrative procedures so that they lend
efficient and effective support to technical functions.
e)    Guarantee  the existence of national  laws that are consistent,
complete and current, to promote the growth and harmonious
development of individuals and families and to reduce the risks of
physical, mental, intellectual, emotional and social deterioration
of the members of society.
f)    Support  and  watch  over the  implementation  and  performance  of
emergency measures in cases of national epidemics or catastrophes by
proposing the amount of and requesting grants of any special credits
that might be necessary.
g)    Keeping itself informed of the establishment and ratification of
international   health  agreements  and  collaborating  in  their
implementation.
. ,.                                      . .     .     . ......... ... .................



-59-
ANNEX III
Page 10 of 42
h)    Advise on and participate in the formulation of plans and programs
and in the organization and development of technical and scientific
health meetings, both national and international, that are held in
the country, and provide technical and economic assistance.
I)    Maintain adequate information and publicity about laws, decrees and
regulations relating to health and its projects, and about the best
ways of using and practicing prophylactic measures and importing and
keeping stocks of preventive and curative drugs.
J)    See to the formation, training and retention of the human resources
needed to provide health services in the country.
k)    Propose the start of a protection system for deficiency areas by
requesting studies and research in connection with their specific
mission.
1)    See to it that inter-institutional coordination measures are carried
out in the execution of health policy, plans and programs.
m)    Decide on and manage grants of pensions and special payments to
k .alth personnel, their vested rights included.
n)    Hear and discuss the ideas submitted to it by its chairman and make
concrete recommendations on them.
fl)   All other powers that the laws or competent authorities confer or
assign to it.
ARTICLE 19 - The National Health Council shall prepare its own internal
regulations.
CHAPTER TWO
MANAGING COMMITTEE
ARTICLE 20 - The Managing Committee of the Ministry of Health is the senior
collegiate dcecision-making body, presided over by the Minister; besides the
regular members stipulated in Article 26 of the Law of Juridical Regimen of the
State Central Administration (Minister, Secretary General and Director General),
it is composed of the regional delegate, chiefs of services and program
directors.  The Executive Council may invite to its meetings any other staff
member of the Ministry or representative of external cooperation agencies whose
presence the chairman considers necessary to deal with the matters to be taken
up in each meeting.
ARTICLE 21 - The functions of the Managing Committee are the following:
a)    Take up, study and decide on the subjects raised by its chairman,



-60-
ANNEX III
Page 11 of 42
b)    Study, discuss and adopt the plans, programs, and projects submitted
to it for con:ideration for execution by the Ministry of Health or
one of its offices.
c)    Take up, and propose for approval to the app1icable authorities, the
preliminary annual draft budget of the Ministry as well as any other
special draft budget that is needed to modify budgets already
approved.
d)    Request preparation of, take up and propose for promulgation all
draft laws, decree-laws, decrees or regulations pertaining to health
matters in the country and amendments to them.
e)    Adopt or, if necessary, propose to the National Health Council any
emergency measures to deal with national epidemics or catastrophes.
f)    Study and recommend any necessary modifications  to projects  in
accordance with international or bilateral health agreements,
including those involving economic cooperation and assistance.
g)    Approve the lists of essential drugs and minimum stocks for the
deposit and distribution warehouses, hospital pharmacies, drugstores
and other health centers.
h)    Authorize the sale and distribution of foreign drugs in the country
as well as the importation of drugs not on the list of essential
drugs.
i)    Approve the preparation and organization of health meetings of a
scientific nature, either national or international, and any others,
that are held in Equatorial Guinea,
J)    Contribute  to  the  coordination  of  the  several  units  of  the
Ministerial Department and to the planning and programming of its
activities.
k)    All other powers which correspond to it by law and any others which
the head of the health area entrusts to it.
ARTICLE 22 - The Secretary General of the Ministry of Health provides the
services of secretariat and the follow-up of execution of the decisions taken by
the Managing Committee.   His legal  standing  is established  in the second
paragraph of Article 26 of the Law on Juridical Regimen of the Central State
Administration.



-61-
ANNEX III
Page 12 of 42
TITLE FIVE
DEFINITION, OBJECTIVES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE TECHNICAL BODIES
OF THE DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF HEALTH
CHAPTER ONE
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF HEALTH AND PLANNING
ARTICLE 22 - The Directorate General of Health is the agency responsible
for securing execution of the actions involved in implementing all health
programs approved; its objective is to put into operation the functions of the
Ministry and to direct and supervise the execution of them at all levels of
attention and provision of service.
ARTICLE 23 - The Directorate General of Health and Planning shall have the
following functions:
a)    Advise and coordinate the formulation of the plans and programs
developed from the policies approved for execution.
b)    Formulate and propose for approval by the political decision-making
bodies the general health policy guidelines as well as the plans and
programs developed from the policies adopted.
c)    Organize  and direct  the  programining and  execution  of all  the
technical and administrative activities corresponding to its offices
in natters of protecting, promoting and revitalizing health in
Equatorial Guinea.
ARTICLE 24 - The Directorate General of Health is subordinate to the Office
of the Secretary General and has the following services for the attainment of its
objectives and execution of the actions:
-     Planning
-     Epidemiology
-     Hospital Coordination
-     Pharmacy and Supplies
-     Laboratory, Traditional Medicine and Research
-     Primary Health Care.
PLANNING SERVICE
ARTICLE 25 - The Planning Service consists of the following sections:
programming, statistics, human resources training and advanced instruction, and
project and external cooperation coordination. Its functions are the following:



-62-
ANNEX III
Page 13 of 42
a)    Advise technical  decision-making bodies on the formation of the
plans and programs developed from the policies approved for
execution.
b)    Advise,  direct  and  coordinate  the  operation  of  the  health
information system.
c)    Evaluate the execution and results of the plans and programs and to
propose any pertinent changes.
d)    See to it that they implement and execute the policies, plans and
programs approved by the senior decision-making levels.
e)    Encourage  the  training  and  advanced  instruction  of  the  human
resources needed to execute the health plans.
ARTICLE 26 - The Health Programming Section shall perform the following
functions:
a)    Prepare the guidelines and rules for the methods to be followed in
preparing the plans that put in concrete form the national health
policy that has been formulated and train the several units of the
Ministry to apply them.
b)    Direct the process of programming at all organizational levels of
the ministerial structure.
c)    Define the statistics and indicators of health status for follow-up
and evaluation of programs.
d)    Collaborate  in  the  process  of defining  health  policy  and  in
formulation of plans.
e)    Evaluate  the  development  of  the  plans  and  programs  and  the
implementation of the rules prepared.
ARTICLE 27 - The Health Statistics Section shall have the following
specific functions:
a)    Identify the information requirements associated with the regional
and national objectives and strategies and with the programs and
forms of organization and administration adopted by the health
systems.
b)    Establish  effective  intra-sector  and  extra-sector  coordination
mechanisms for the gathering, analysis and use of information.
c)    Develop  simple and appropriate  technologies  for the following:
gathering, processing and analysis of functions of production and
costs, as well as technical and administrative controls and
evaluation.



-63-
ANNEX III
Page 14 of 42
d)    Promote the use of available information in studies on utilization
of services, programming and evaluation, as well as in the process
of adopting decisions at the sector, institutional and community
levels.
e)    Promote and organize the gathering, analysis and dissemination of
epidemiological data at all levels.
f)    Develop methodologies for gathering and evaluating data collected on
a regular basis, for determining how representative they are, and
for using unconventional techniques for analysis of morbidity and
mortality.
g)    Start, maintain and supervise the work of collecting the health
statistics necessary for health planning.
h)    Design and start the procedures for preparing the statistics that
afford it maximum amount of time to produce the data required.
i)    Train  health personnel  in the gathering  and  interpretation  of
statistical data and health indicators.
J)    Keep current statistics and indicators on birth rate, morbidity and
mortality, consultations and performances of the primary health
activities.
k)    Collaborate  in  the  work  of  planning,  health  programming  and
preparing the report of the Ministry.
ARTICLE 28 - The Human Resources Training and Advanced Instruction Section
shall have the following functions:
a)    Develop policy on integrating teaching and health care.
b)    Establish programs  for training and  instruction  of the health
services delivery team, including environmental sanitation personnel
and the agents in the informal system.
c)    Develop the social,  biological  and psychological  components of
training programs.
d)    Plan and develop joint programs with service institutions for the
training of their personnel in priority areas.
e)    Formulate  local,  regional  and  central  evaluation  and  control
mechanisms for the educational processes in the services.
f)    Strengthen the training and research institutions, with an emphasis
on the areas of public health and preventive, community and social
medicine.



-64-
ANNEX III
Page 15 of 42
g)    Establish coordination mechanisms between service institutions and
instruction institutions at different levels.
h)    Review and strengthen training programs for middle level technical,
auxiliary and community personnel.
i)    Review and strengthen the training programs in administration of
health services systems forganization, planning, administrative
management and information).
J)    Establish  the  human  resources  training  and  instruction  needs
required for the functioning of the Ministry of Health.
k)    Formulate the national  human resources training and instruction
program and participate in its execution.
1)    Participate in the evaluation of the program executed and propose
all necessary adjustments.
m)    Coordinate with the National School of Health the training programs
that are in execution and those that are to be executed.
ARTICLE 29 - The Projects and External Cooperation Coordination Section
shall have the following functions:
a)    Identify  the  needs  of  technical  assistance  and  conduct  the
negotiations to secure them.
b)    Coordinate the activities involving international cooperation and
conduct the necessary follow-up for the performance of the national
counterpart and the development of the activities.
c)    Evaluate  the  execution  of  the  cooperation  and  propose  all
appropriate changes that are required.
d)    Maintain  all  necessary  information  for adequate  management  of
international cooperation.
e)    Exchange and publicize  information on policies,  strategies and
programs of l,.ernational cooperation.
f)    Gather information on policies, strategies and action plans of all
organizations and agencies to consider how they might apply to
national strategy by means of joint analysis with the Ministry of
Economy, Commerce and Planning.
g)    Strengthen multilateral, bilateral and nongovernmental ties by means
of systematic exchange of information for the purpose of encouraging
the regular participation of these sources.



-65-
ANNEX III
Page 16 of 42
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE SERVICE
ARTICLE 30 - The Primary Health Care Service has the following functions:
a)    Conduct programming for the strengthening of community participation
strategies, based on the political state of affairs and the
socioeconomic and cultural characteristics of the country.
b)    Formulate and implement the national primary health care program.
c)    Define the training requirements for development of human resources
at  all  levels,  both  within  the  institutional  system  and  the
traditional community system, and implement or strengthen the
measures that ensure maximum instruction of the human resources to
execute the program and likewise participate in selecting and
training them.
d)    Evaluate the results of the activities of the program on the basis
of clearly defined objectives and goals.
e)    Ensure  the  involvement  of  the  community  in  developing  the
strategies for the primary health care program, its application and
evaluation, to produce self-confidence and self-sufficiency among
those who deliver and those who receive the health actions.
ARTICLE 31 - The Primary Health Care Service shall have the following
sections:
-     Mother-Infant
-     Immunization
-     Diet and Nutrition
-     Oral and Dental Health
-     Health Education and Community Participation
-     Public Health Nursing
-     Mental H'afth
-     Hygi'ne and Environmental Health
ARTICLE 32 - The Mother-Infant Section shall have the following actions to
carry out:
a)    Develop comprehensive family care policy.



-66-
ANNEX III
Page 17 of 42
b)    Conduct critical reviews of policy and laws regarding the protection
of the health and social well-being of families, children,
youngsters and women.
c)    Formulate the guidelines and recommendations to introduce  into
policy all reforms that encourage and facilitate comprehensive care
of the family, including child development.
d)    Evaluate and watch over the health status of mothers and children.
e)    Establish simplified methods for systematic surveillance of the
health status of women and children.
f)    Design and conduct specific studies to identify the health problems
of vulnerable groups such as studies of prenatal mortality and
maternal health of the most exposed groups of mothers and new-borns;
the characteristics of fertility and health problems of high
fertility women and the individual problems of youngsters.
g)    Collect,  analyze  and  disseminate  information  on  studies  and
experiments.
h)    Strengthen and develop the mother-infant health care component in
the primary health care attention service.
1)    Develop appropriate technologies for pre- and postpartum health care
by levels of service and services to new-borns, and for the ongoing
and comprehensive care of children as a part of primary health care.
J)    Plan and execute activities aimed at improving the social, mental
and physical well-being of adolescents, including family life
education.
k)    Promote and strengthen the area of nutrition,  including maternal
lactation, as well as the diet of new-borns and children.
1)    Establish and apply adequate ways of protecting and caring for high-
risk mothers and children, at all levels of health care.
m)    Design  specific projects that  facilitate comprehensive care of
families and working women.
n)    Integration of the family planning component into the primary health
care services,
fl)    Encourage preventive measures, active community participation and
establishment of educational guidelines and materials on health in
support of those activities.



-67-
ANNEX III
Page 18 of 42
ARTICLE 33 - The illnesses deserving the maximum attention of the Mother-
Infant Section are the following: (EDA) (ERA).
1 -   Acute diarrheic diseases:  (EDA).
a)    Establishment of programming methods that ensure the utilization of
diarrhea control program strategies such as oral rehydration,
nutrition,   health   education,   food  and  water  hygiene  and
environmental sanitation, and national programs within the framework
of primary health care.
b)    Establishment of rules and mechanisms for all diarrhea control
activities within the framework of primary health care.
c)    Creation of installations to produce oral rehydration salts and
strengthening of laboratory facilities.
d)    Establishment or improvement of local and regional  capacity to
produce salts for oral rehydration wherever appropriate.
e)    Study and application of clinical trials and special surveys for
improvement of the program.
f)    Development of effective systems of surveillance, supervision and
evaluation of acute diarrheic disease control, with the following:
-     Execution of operational studies and surveillance activities
to improve the program.
-     Definition of rapid laboratory procedures to determine the
etiology and describe the transmission mechanisms.
2 -   Acute respiratory diseases:  (ERA).
a)    Strengthen the primary health care services to improve etiological
diagnosis and treatment of acute respiratory diseases (ERA).
b)    Develop standard diagnostic criteria for acute lower respiratory
tract infections suited for primary health care personnel.
c)    Develop simplified standard treatment and criteria for sources of
cases.
d)    Establish recording activities of these diseases for the primary
health care services and give priority to children and the elderly.
e)    Improve laboratory facilities for the identification of etiological
agents by training of personnel, provision of reagents and
improvement of facilities and equipment.
f)    Develop surveillance and supervision systems with the following:



-68-
ANNEX III
Page 19 of 42
-     Application  of  new  surveillance  methods  for  incidenice,
treatment and effects of ERA among children.
-     Training of health personnel and community agents, including
the use of materials and methods adapted to the needs of the
local services system.
f)    Wherever appropriate, promote oral  rehydration in place of more
costly procedures to reduce mortality owed to diarrheic diseases.
g)    Design standards and applications of appropriate teaching methods
for health personnel of all types.
h)    Develop   technologies   to   achieve   more   effective   community
participation in the activities of the program.
ARTICLE 34 - The Diet and Nutrition Section has the following functions:
a)    Focus actions taking an inter-sector approach to the problem on the
context of socioeconomic development and incorporate aspects of
nutrition and diet.
b)    Strengthen the participation of the health sector in expanding the
availability, acceptability and sound use of foods.
c)    Include  specific  activities  of  prevention  and  correction  of
malnutrition, provide the necessary coverage to have an impact and
incorporate supplementary diet programs for vulnerable groups.
d)    Define and establish control or surveillance procedures for the
nutritional status of the population, especially those younger than
five years of age and pregnant women.
e)    Participate in defining hygiene standards for the production, sale
and preservation of foods.
ARTICLE 35 - The Oral-Dental Health Section has the following functions:
a)    Encourage oral health prevention activities by establishing policies
and standards.
b)    Introduce prevention techniques and promote individual and community
involvement in preventive activities and education.
c)    Establish programs for those younger than fifteen years of age, with
an emphasis on education in oral hygiene, prevention and treatment
of oral diseases.
d)    Orientation and training of professional and auxiliary personnel by
developing training programs in appropriate technologies for



-69-
ANNEX III
Page 20 of 42
extending the coverage to the most vulnerable segments of the
population.
e)    Introduce the use of fluorides and other preventive techniques.
f)    Incorporate dental treatments into the school health service as part
of the primary health care program.
ARTICLE 36 - The Health Education and Community Participation Section shall
have the following functions:
a)    Design and application of new approaches for establishing national
community education plans in health, with the active involvement of
community leaders, based on the concept of ongoing comprehensive
education aimed especially at early ages.
b)    Promotion and development of community education  activities  in
specific programming areas.
c)    Establishment of directives to include health education activities
in the formal and informal education systems.
d)    Development  of  specific  and  innovative  techniques  in  health
education applicable to at-risk groups.
e)    Establishment of an information and communications system to share
criteria, subjects and innovative experiences in the area of
education.
f)    In the area of developing effective community participation, it has
the following functions to perform:
-     Development  and  testing  of  new  approaches,  coordination
mechanisms and specific projects that integrate the community
and  the  health  sector  into  planning  and  execution  of
activities.
-     Review and redefinition of the functions of health system
personnel and community health agents, in view of the needs,
priorities and resources of the community.
-     Design,  encouragement  and  implementation  of  operational
research to define effective types and procedures of
participation.
-     Development   of   community   participation   models    in
epidemiological   surveillance  and  in  identification  of
community health problems.



-70-
ANNEX III
Page 21 of 42
-     Development of effective mechanisms to secure material and
financial support from the community in consideration of their
own health needs.
ARTICLE 37 - The Public Health Nursing Section has the following functions:
a)    Strengthen the institutional  capacity and  its organization and
coordination to deliver public health nursing services, with special
attention to primary health care.
b)    Promote and develop effective mechanisms to secure the participation
of nurses and ATS in the administration of health care and community
services.
c)    Supervise programs aimed at strengthening and developing mother-
infant care in primary health care.
d)    Encourage preventive measures and active community participation and
establishment of guidelines and materials for education in health in
support of those activities.
e)    Support the development of health personnel  training programs,
including auxiliaries, in the area of comprehensive health care in
the home and in the community.
f)    Prepare instructional and teaching technology materials for the
training of personnel in evaluation, planning and administration of
immunization programs at all levels.
g)    Strengthen the functions of administrative support for each level of
care, including guidelines for its operation, quality control and
provision of personnel and equipment.
ARTICLE 38 - The Mental Health Section has the following functions:
a)    Develop policy on mental health and control of drugs, dependency and
alcoholism, appropriate legislation included.
b)    Incorporate mental health activities in the general health services
by means of:
-     Introducing mental health into primary health care services.
-     Incorporating the mental health and psychiatric care service
into hospitals, health centers and health dispensaries, as
well as other community health services.
c)    Conduct prevention and promotion activities in mental health by
means of:
-     Developing psychological support programs for fam lies.



-71-
ANNEX III
Page 22 of 42
Establishing preventive measures for special groups for poorly
adapted persons.



-72-
ANNEX III
Page 23 of 42
EPIDEMIOLOGY SERVICE
ARTICLE 39 - The Epidemiology Service is composed of the sections of:
a)    Epidemiological Surveillance and National Endemics.
b)    Hygiene and Environmental Sanitation.
ARTICLE 40 - The Epidemiological Surveillance and National Endemics Section
has the folTowing functions:
a)    Surveillance and evaluation:
-     Epidemiological  studies  on  morbidity  and  mortality  to
determine the effect of the program on all the groups to which
it is addressed.
--    Study and application  of simple surveillance methods  for
ongoing evaluation.
-     Establishment of execution methods for the health services
program and its evaluation.
b)    Design   the   epidemiological   standards   and   epidemiological
surveillance procedures, specifically for the following diseases:
ma,aria,   filariosis,   leprosy,   trypanosomiasis,   tuberculosis,
syphilis, gonorrhea and AIDS.
c)    Design, maintain and start the transmissible diseases notification
procedure.
d)    Elaborate  and  analyze  the  specific  statistics  and  indices  on
transmissible diseases.
e)    Promote, even on a small scale, epidemiological research into the
principal health problems.
f)    Formulate  and  supervise  the  epidemiological  execution  of  the
programs dealinc, with the major national endemics (malaria,
filariosis, leprosy, trypanosomiasis, tuberculosis and others).
g)    Develop human resources by including mental health, drug dependency
and alcoholism in the study plans of the National School of Health.
h)    Develop mental  health training programs for general  physicians,
nurses and primary health workers.
i)    Establish new methods for surveillance of characteristics and habits
in the area of notification:



7 3-
ANNEX III
Page 24 of 42
Development of an information system to evaluate transmission
of disease and identify groups that warrant priority
attention.
ARTICLE 41 - The Hygiene and Environmental Sanitation Section has the
following functions:
a)    Incorporate the fundamental components of water system, solid waste
and waste water disposal projects into national development plans.
b)    Supervise periodically,  by means of primary health care in the
several locales, the status of hygiene and environmental sanitation
to determine new approaches to the neediest communities.
c)    Establish minimum standards for quality, quantity and uninterrupted
service of water supply systems and help communities protect water
sources and build latrines, encouraging self-financing at the same
time.
d)    Improve the capacity of the Ministry of Health to control water
quality with an eye on inter-sector collaboration.
e)    Formulate guidelines on participation and education of the community
in hygiene and environmental sanitation for the establishment of
operational links with the primary health care system so that the
activities support each other.
f)    '.stablish cooperation principles with the local town governments for
management of solid waste, identify projects for metropolitan areas
and cities and prepare proposals for executing their financing.
g)    Encourage community participation in solid waste control programs
and educate and inform the people about the role of hygiene and
environmental sanitation in health.
h)    Promote coordination among the several sectors and the inclusion of
the concepts of urban solid waste disposal and household hygiene,
fundamentally by using latrines, in primary education plans.
i)    Train and give refresher education to environmental  sanitation
agents and provide them with appropriate technical information about
the activities of hygiene and environmental sanitation in the
country.
j)    Establish programs starting with primary education that stimulate
the interest of consumers in applying the principles and practices
of hygienic handling of foods for their own consumption.
k)    Cooperate in the development of an integrated strategy and plan of
action for overall protection of foods.



-74-
ANNEX III
Page 25 of 42
1)    Encourage  adequate  sanitary  control  in  houses  by  formulating
maintenance guidelines and procedures using local materials and
applying technology consistent with the prevailing social and
economic conditions in the area in question.
LABORATORY, TRADITIONAL MEDICINE AND RESEARCH SERVICE
ARTICLE 42 - The Laboratory, Traditional Medicine and Research Service has
the following functions:
a)    See  to  it  that  the  laboratory  services  are  established  and
maintained in accordance with the laboratory analysis requirements
of the health programs being executed.
b)    Support more diversified laboratory services in a manner consistent
with the demands of the several programs.
c)    Formulate and implement the technical  standards on clinical and
dietetic analysis to be used in the country and train the applicable
personnel in how to use them.
d)    Supervise and evaluate  the operation of clinicel  and dietetic
laboratories in the country.
e)    Develop the Law on Traditional Medicine.
f)    Take a census and regulate all folk medicine practitioners in the
country.
g)    Establish  coordination  mechanisms  between  the  national  health
service and the traditional medicine service.
h)    Promote medical research in the country,
i)    Coordinate  research  work  by  the  Scientific  and  Technological
Research Council.
ARTICLE 43 - The Laboratory, Traditional Medicine and Research Service has
the following services: laboratories, veterinary medicine, traditional medicine
and research.
ARTICLE 44 - The Laboratories Section has the following actions to perform:
a)    Report on the research done by new laboratories engaged in clinical
and nutrition analysis.
b)    Supervise and exercise the control of the operation of all clinical
and nutrition laboratories,
c)    Establish standard analysis methods wherever necessary.



-75-
ANNEX III
Page 26 of 42
d)    Promote the training and advanced instructic.n of analysts.
e)    Maintain ongoing contact with the Pharmacy and Supplies Service for
the purpose of ensuring stocks of materials and reagents at public
sector laboratories.
ARTICLE 45 - The Veterinary Medicine Section has the following actions to
perform:
a)    Control and eradication of dnimal diseases.
b)    Control  of stray dogs and campaigns against  rodents and other
animals harmful to man.
c)    Issue of sanitary regulations for international trade of animals,
products and sub-products, in coordination with the corresponding
services of the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and
Forests.
d)    Institutional strengthening of public veterinary medicine health
programs.
e)    Promote tile education of public veterinary medicine health and
animal diseases in the national schools of health and agriculture
and the technical colleges.
ARTICLE 46 - The Traditional Medicine Section has the following actions to
perform:
a)    Establish and maintain contact procedures with  the traditional
medicine sector.
b)    Conduct the studies and research necessary to understand and utilize
the therapeutical elements having recognized effectiveness of
traditional medicine.
c)    Reorient the methods of traditional  therapy  in benefit of the
population at large.
d)    Advocate the application of the current Law on Traditional Medicine.
ARTICLE 47 - The Research Service has the following missions to perform:
a)    Outline the policy on research in the field of medical sciences in
coordination with the CICTE.
b)    Promote research as part of the national programs on campaigns
against endemic diseases, diet and nutrition and medicinal plants.
c)    Promote the training of researchers in the medical sciences.



-76-
ANNEX III
Page 27 of 42
ARTICLE 48 - The Medical Supplies Service is responsible for establioning
adequate procedures to provide the medical supplies required by the Directorate
General of Health; its functions are the following:
a)    Establish  every  one  of  the  stages  of  program  and  budget,
procurement, distribution, stocking at,' control of the supply
process to secure delivery of materials to establishments with the
quantity, quality and timing appropriate for continuity of the
services.
b)    Make  the  selection  and  determinations  to  meet  the  technical
standards of attention by having local bodies participate.
c)    For operational purposes,  at the first level of attention,  the
procedures should be simple and confined to critical inputs, using
a consumption model aimed at making the programming and distribution
adjustments that criteria of efficiency require.
ARTICLE 49 - The Supplies Section has the following sections: Materials
and Medical Implements, and Pharmacies.
ARTICLE 50 - The Materials and Medical Implements Section has to perform
the following:
a)    Carry out  the procurement  procedures  for the medical  supplies
required for each fiscal period and establish and conduct procedures
to control their inventory, distribution and use.
b)    Distribute  the  medical  supplies  in accordance  with  the  needs
established for each locale and supervise their storage.
c)    Develop programs  for preparing basic lists,  specifications and
standards for supplies and equipment.
ARTICLE 51 - The Pharmacies Section has the following actions to perform:
a)    Establish and change, with the necessary medical  collaboration,
basic lists of essential drugs and medical-surgical materials
necessary for medical and health care of the national population.
b)    Start standar-ds on preserving and storing drugs or pharmaceutical
specialties in accordance with the procedures established for each
product.
c)    Establish  and  start  the  recording  and  control  procedures  for
pharmaceuticals and drugs, based on national pharmaceutical policies
and regulations.
d)    Establish and enforce retail drt., prices.



-77-
ANNEX III
Page 28 of 42
ARTICLE 53 - The Hospital Coordination Service has the following general
actions for second and third level hospitals:
a)    Participate in formulating and implementing the national  health
plans and in determining the human resources, materials and
financial resources to execute them.
b)    Coordinate, among health establishments, the execution of all health
programs, both preventive and curative.
c)    Participate in the formulation and execution of the national primary
health care program.
d)    Procure the means or measures necessary to achieve participation of
communities in execution of the primary health care program.
ARTICLE 54 - The Hospital Coordination Service has the following specific
functions:
a)    Formulate and implement the medical health care attention rules and
supervise their performance and coordination among the health care
levels established in the country.
b)    Define,  implement  and maintain  the types or  levels  of health
establishments in accordance with the levels of care given to the
public and the real needs of the communities.
d)    Direct the implementation of health programs at the establishments
and request the necessary resources.
HEALTH DELEGATIONS
ARTICLE 55 - The Health Services are decentralized into regional and
provincial delegations, as follows:
-     Island Regional Delegation.
-     Continental Regional Delegation.
-     Bioko North Provincial Delegation.
-     Bioko South Provincial Delegation.
-     Annobon Provincial Delegation.
-     Coastal Provincial Delegation.
-     Central-South Provincial Delegation.
-     Wele Nzas Provincial Delegation.



-78-
ANNEX III
Page 29 of 42
MKie Ntem Provincial Delegation.
ARTICLE 56 - The Regional Health Delegations are decentralized units of the
organization that execute the direction and supervision of all ministerial
functions and activities; they act as the delegates of the Directorate General
of Health, to which they report, and have authority over health establishments
and others such as regional, district and municipal facilities in all locales
within their jurisdiction. They are composed of the following sections:
a)    Technical Health Section.
b)    Administration and Finance Section.
ARTICLE 57 - The Regional Health Delegations have the objective of ensuring
execution of ministerial directives within their territorial jurisdiction,
setting general health provisions, wherever necessary, in harmony with the senior
authorities, and coordinating the implementation of health activities within
their areas of authority.
ARTICLE 58 - The areas of authority of the Regional Health Delegations
concern the following functions:
a)    Represent the Ministry in their jurisdictional territory.
b)    Ensure  execution  of  all  the  directives  issued  by  the  senior
decision-making level with respect to policy, plans and programs in
health.
c)    Inspect the operation of the health establishments that report to
them and ensure the condition and maintenance of the installations
and equipment.
d)    Advise the governors and provincial health councils on resolving
health problems.
e)    Execute and enforce the health regulations in the territory of their
jurisdiction.
f)    All other powers delegated or entrusted to them by senior authority.
ARTICLE 59 - The Technical Health Section has the following specific
functions:
a)    Start and direct execution at the health establishments in their
jurisdiction of the work procedures and methods associated with the
programs in execution,
b)    See to the maintenance and correct use of the records, files and
collection procedures and information transmission procedures
established in the health information system.



-79-
ANNEX III
Page 30 of 42
c)    Inform the health establishments within their area of responsibility
of the evaluation of programs being executed, and the results of
them, and propose any corrections or adjustments that might be
necessary.
d)    Bring  before  senior authorities  all  initiatives  regarding  the
determination of health problems and possible solutions to them.
e)    Watch over compliance with established technical standa:ds.
ARTICLE 60 - The Administration and Finance Section has the following
functions:
a)    Receive, prepare and send all correspondence of the Delegation.
b)    Keep the personnel records up to date.
c)    Submit all personnel transfers and movements to the appropriate
authorities for consideration.
d)    Prepare preliminary budgets,  based on the programming of each
establishment in their administrative jurisdiction.
e)    Report on any new developments among personnel.
f)    Keep a file on matters relating to the Delegation.
g)    Control  and  evaluate  personnel  performance  by  programs  and
occupational profile.
TITLE SIX
DEFINITION, OBJECTIVES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE DECENTRALIZED
EXECUTION BODIES
CHAPTER ONE
REGIONAL HOSPITALS
ARTICLE 61 - The Regional Hospitals are operating units responsible for
providing comprehensive health care to the people by undertaking all types of
activities;  they represent the highest level of delivery of health services,
report to the Directorate General of Health through the Hospital Coordination
Service, and serve as referral points for all the other health establishments
included in the region. The Regional Hospitals are located in the capital cities
of the regions established in the country.
ARTICLE 62 - The basic objective of the Regional Hospitals is to provide
maximum service in comprehensive individual and social health care and, at the
same time, lend all the technical and logistical support for the operation of
lower health care delivery units,



-80-
ANNEX III
Page 31 of 42
ARTICLE 63 - The functions of the Regional Hospitals are:
a)    Serve the demand  for hospitalization  services  in the areas of
general medicine, surgery, gynecology-obstetrics, pediatrics and all
medical specialties that current technology distinguishes in the
medical sciences.
b)    Provide physical and mental rehabilitation services to those who
have experienced disease processes.
c)    Develop  all  the  health  promotion  and  protection  activities
associated with the plans and programs of the Ministry of Health,
especially vaccination, nutrition improvement and health education.
d)    Serve the demand for medical  consultation service arising from
transfers of patients from health establishments and private clinics
or those who are admitted on their own.
e)    Conduct all activities that contribute to precise diagnosis and
adequate treatment of the illnesses of the people under their care.
f)    Conduct medical research and health administration activities that
are aimed at improving the delivery of hospital services as well as
the collection and preparation of health statistics.
g)    Advise on the operation of lower level establishments within their
jurisdiction and collaborate in the medical care of their most
serious patients.
h)    Carry out efficiently all support and logistical  work that are
appropriate to them.
i)    Support,  facilitate and participate in the work of training and
instructing medical and health personnel and all others necessary
for the health sector.
CHAPTER TWO
PROVINCIAL AND DISTRICT HOSPITALS
ARTICLE 64 - The Provincial and District Hospitals are operating units at
a lower level of complexity than the Regional Hospitals to which they report
organizationally. They receive all the support and guidance they need. They are
responsible for comprehensive health care of the people living in their area of
influence, conduct all activities relating to national health policy and have
jurisdiction and authority over all other health establishments in their areas
of influence. They are located in the capital cities of provinces and districts.
ARTICLE 65 - The objective of the Provincial and District Hospitals is to
provide comprehensive health care to the people in their areas of influence and



-81-
ANNEX III
Page 32 of 42
provide technical and logistical support to the health establishments in their
jurisdictions.
ARTICLE 66 - The functions of the Provincial and District Hospitals are the
following:
a)    Serve the demand  for hospitalization services  in the areas of
general medicine, surgery, gynecology-obstetrics, pediatrics and all
other medical specialties that do not require highly specialized
equipment or personnel.
b)    Provide basic physical therapy services.
c)    Support the provincial and district health teams in developing all
the health promotion and protection activities associated with the
plans  and  programs  of  the  Ministry  of  Health,  especially
vaccination, nutrition improvement and health education.
d)    Serve the demand for medical consultation services of any origin.
e)    Undertake all activities that contribute to precise diagnosis and
adequate treatment of the illnesses of the people in their care.
f)    Perform  activities  of  elementary  medical  research  or  health
administration aimed at improving the delivery of hospital services
as well as the collection and preparation of health statistics.
g)    Advise and assist in the operation of the health centers and health
dispensaries  within  their  jurisdictions  and  collaborate  in
delivering health care to their most serious patients.
h)    Develop with maximum responsibility the support and logistical tasks
that are appropriate to them.
i)    Support,  facilitate and participate in the work of training and
instructing medical and health personnel and those necessary for the
health sector.
ARTICLE 67 - The Provincial Health Team -s the unit responsible for
coordinating, supervising and evaluating the health promotion and protection
activities associated with the plans and programs of the Ministry.
CHAPTER THREE
DISTRICT HEALTH SECTION
ARTICLE 68 - The District Health Section is the unit responsible for
undertaking the health promotion and protection activities associated with the
plans and programs of the Ministry of Health, especially in the areas of:



-82-
ANNEX III
Page 33 o' 42
a)    Mother-infant health, which includes prenatal care and the applied
vaccination and acute diarrheic and respiratory diseases control
programs.
b)    Control of national endemics.
c)    Environmental sanitation.
d)    Supply of essential materials and drugs.
The District Health Section has the technical support of the District
Hospital and in turn provides support in the primary health care programs to the
health dispensaries that are under its jurisdiction. It reports organizationally
to the Office of the Director of the District Hospital.
ARTICLE 69 - The District Health Section encompasses all the actions and
resources of the combined health structure in its geographical area, for which
it will coordinate the services and programs with other sectors. The resources
at the district operating level are in line with the support that the several
services of the District Hospital and eventually, the Provincial Hospital, are
to provide to it.
ARTICLE 70 - The Chief of the District Health Section has the following
activities to perform:
a)    Develop the operations plan, which includes the activities involving
health promotion and development and individual, family and
community well-being.
b)    Supervise the programs in terms of goal accomplishment on the basis
of the health information system generated in his district.
c)    See to epidemiological  surveillance and establish the necessary
system to have timely knowledge about health losses, determine their
dimensions precisely and establish the health care measures for the
individuals and the environment suited to the problems found.
d)    Serve and resolve environmental health and hygiene problems in the
areas of control and supervision to avert direct losses to health.
e)    Coordinate with the local authorities the control of water sources
and proper elimination of solid waste.
CHAPTER FOUR
HEALTH CENTERS
ARTICLE 71 - The Health Centers are second level operating units which are
responsible for delivering comprehensive health care to the people in their areas
of influence. They report organizationally to the District Hospitals from which



-83-
ANNEX III
Page 34 of 42
they receive all the support and guidance they need. They have jurisdiction and
authority over the health dispensaries located within their areas of influence.
ARTICLE 72 - The objective of the Health Centers is delivering
comprehensive health care to the people in their area of influence, with an
emphasis on preventive activities, and providing direct technical and logistical
support to the health dispensaries within their geographical jurisdiction.
ARTICLE 73 - The specific functions of the Health Centers are the
following:
a)    Undertake all health promotion and protection activities associated
with the plans and programs of the national health policy,
especially  those  involving  environmental   sanitation,   health
education,   vaccination,   supplementary   diet,   epidemiological
surveillance and mother-infant health.
b)    Start  and  maintain,  on  a permanent  basis,  measures  aimed  at
controlling  major  national  endemics:        malaria,   filariasis,
trypanosomiasis, leprosy, tuberculosis and others.
c)    Serve the demand for medical and dental consultation services that
are either spontaneous or transfers from the health dispensaries
within their jurisdiction.
d)    Develop the basic clinical laboratory activities for diagnosis and
treatment.
e)    Provide hospitalization services.
f)    Advise  on  and  assist  in  the  basic  operation  of  the  health
dispensaries within their jurisdiction and provide health care to
their most serious patients.
g)    Start and maintain the tasks of gathering and preparing elementary
health statistics.
h)    Develop with maximum authority the support and logistics tasks that
are pertinent to them.
i)    Support, facilitate and participate in the work of training and
instructing health personnel and other human resources necessary for
the health sector.
CHAPTER FIVE
HEALTH POSTS
ARTICLE 74 - The Health Dispensaries are the operating units of lowest
complexity  in the health establishment  system.   They are responsible  for
delivering primary health care to the people in their areas of influence. They



-84-
ANNEX III
Page 35 of 42
report organizationally to the Health Centers from which they receive all the
support and orientation they need.   They are located in the towns or urban
communities.
ARTICLE 75 - The basic objective of the Health Dispensaries is
implementation and execution of the primary health care policy or basic medical
treatment of the people in their jurisdiction.
ARTICLE 76 - The specific functions of the Health Dispensaries are framed
in the primary health care policy, and they are the following:
a)    Develop with all possible care the work of giving health education
to the people of the area, using all local means.
b)    Conduct surveillance work regarding the nutritional status of all
children under five years of age, pregnant women, nursing women and
other groups vulnerable to malnutrition, and instruct them on the
food sources they need as well as education and guidance on proper
diet.
c)    Conduct activities aimed at providing a supply of water safe for
human consumption and basic sanitation of the community.
d)    Conduct all the activities of the mother-infant health care program.
e)    Support the PAV program against contagious diseases preventable by
vaccination for all those under five years of age in their area of
influence as well as pregnant women and other susceptible groups.
f)    Start and maintain measures to combat the major national endemics:
malaria, filariasis, trypanosomiasis, leprosy, tuberculosis and
cthers.
g)    Serve  the demand  for medical  assistance  services  by providing
treatment for the most commonly diagnosed illnesses and transfer the
most serious or complicated cases to higher levels of health care.
h)    Maintain a fresh and large enough store of essential drugs.
i)    Conduct the statistics collection activities requested of them.



-85-
ANNEX III
Page 36 of 42
TITLE SEVEN
DEFINITION, OBJECTIVE AND FUNCTIONS OF THE DECENTRALIZED
CONSULTATIVE BODIES
CHAPTER ONE
PROVINCIAL HEALTH COUNCILS
ARTICLE 77 - The Provincial Health Councils are advisory organs for
provincial authorities, and responsible for adopting appropriate measures in
conformity with current law to deal with health problems in their areas of
influence.  The councils meet regularly at least once each quarter and on a
special basis as often as necessary. They shall have the following members:
Chairman:          The Provincial Health Delegate
Vice Chairman:    The Provincial Governor
Secretary:         The Secretary of the Town Council
Members:           Delegates from the Ministries of:
-     Education, Youth and Sports
-     Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Forests
-     Labor and Social Action
-     Promotion of Women
-     Culture, Tourism and Handicrafts Promiotion
-     National Defense
-     Public Works, Housing and Urban Affairs
-     Mayor of the City Government.
Depending on the what is to be discussed, the council may invite to its
meetings and discussions any specialists on the particular matter; it may also
cstablish whatever specialized committees it deems appropriate.
ARTICLE 78 - The Provincial Health Councils have the objective of advising
the provincial authorities, including the health authorities, on solving all
types of health problems and encouraging many sectors to become involved and
participate in developing solutiuns to them.
ARTICLE 79 - The functions of the Provincial Health Councils are the
following:
a)    Assist the Health Delegate in determining and solving all types of
problems associated with the health of the people in the province.
bj    Supporting  and  watching  over  the  start  and  implementation  of
emergency  measures   in  cases   of  epidemics   and  provincial
catastrophes, and proposing the amount of special credits needed and
applying for them.



-86-
ANNEX III
Page 37 of 42
c)    Issue opinions on the declaration of the existence of epidemics and
catastrophes affect the population of the province, and the
amelioration of them.
d)    Report on the start and utilization of determined prophylactic
measures in the province.
e)    Collaborate in implementation of health measures that benefit the
people in general or specific groups.
f)    Participate  in and bring about community participation  in the
formulation and execution of national or provincial health plans and
programs for the short, medium or long term.
g)    Collaborate in the programming and execution of seminars, meetings
and other technical and scientific events to be held in the
province, and provide technical and economic assistance to them.
h)    Maintain adequate information and public information about laws,
decrees and regulations of a health nature, and their projects;
support the implementation of these.
i)    See  to  the  training,  instruction  and  retention  of  the human
resources needed to provide health services in the provinces.
J)    Support  the  implementation  of  inter-institutional  coordination
measures in the execution of health policies, plans and programs.
k)    Decide  on  and  negotiate  extensions  of  special  pensions  and
compensation to health personnel, their vested rights included.
1)    Take up, discuss and make specific recommendations on the ideas
proposed by their chairmen.
m)    All others powers that the laws or competent authorities confer or
assign to them.
CHAPTER TWO
DISTRICT HEALTH COUNCILS
ARTICLE 80 - The District Health Councils are the advisory organs of the
district autEoFities and are also responsible for adopting all appropriate
measures in accordance with current law regarding the solution of the health
problems within their areas of influence. The councils shall meet regularly at
least once each quarter and on a special basis whenever necessary. They shall
be presided over by the District Health Chief who may be the Director of the
Regional Hospital. The councils are made up as follows: Chairman: District
Health Chief; Vice Chairman: the Delegate of the Government; Secretary: the
Secretary of the Town Council; members: representatives from the Ministries of:
Education, Youth and Sports; Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Forests; Labor



-87-
ANNEX III
Page 38 of 42
and Social Action; Promotion of Women; National Defense; Tourism, Culture and
Handicrafts Promotion; Public Works, Housing and Transport; and the Mayor of the
district seat city.
ARTICLE 81 - The District Health Councils have the objective of advising
the district or municipal authorities within their areas of influence, including
health authorities, on planning, study or solution of all types of problems that
relate to health and bringing about the participation and coordination of all
institutions inv lved in resolving them.
ARTICLE 82 - The specific functions of the District Health Councils are the
following:
a)    Assist the District Health Chief or any other health authority of
the municipalities within their areas of influence in planning and
resolving problems relating to the health of the people under their
care.
b)    See  to  the  start  and  implementation  of health  measures,  both
ordinary measures as well as those for epidemics or catastrophes,
which are aimed at protecting and preserv,ng the health of the
people.
c)    Propose the amount of special credits that are needed to deal with
in health emergencies and apply for them.
d)    Back and support statements of declaration or confirmaiion of the
existence of epidemics or catastrophes in their areas of influence
or their provinces.
e)    Report on the start and utilization of prophylactic health measures
in their areas of influence.
f)    Participate in and bring about the participation of the community in
understanding the local health situation for the purpose of guiding
regional or national health planning and programming.
g)    Participate in the holding of seminars, meetings and other technical
events on health at the provincial or national level.
h)    Maintain adequate information and public information about laws,
decrees and regulations of a health nature and see that they are
enforced.
i)    Support the assignment and retention of the human resources needed
to provide health services within their territory of influence.
j)    See to it that local institutional coordination is carried out in
execution of health activities.



-88-
ANNEX III
Page 39 of 42
k)    Take up, discuss and make specific recommendations on the ideas that
their chairmen present to them.
TITLE EIGHT
DEFINITION, OBJECTIVES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE SUPPORT UNITS
CHAPTER ONE
PERSONNEL SECTION
ARTICLE 83 - The Personnel Section is a support organ responsible for
administering the human resources of the Ministerial Department: it reports
organizationally to the Secretary General and has no line authority.
ARTICLE 84 - The objective of the Personnel Section is to develop or
execute the personnel administration policy of the Ministry in accordance with
governmental provisions.
ARTICLE 85 - The functions of the Personnel Section are the following:
a)    Prepare the wage scale and keep it current  in accordance with
personnel ad,ninistration provisions and rules.
b)    Apply the Law on the State Civil Service.
c)    Recruit and hire personnel on the basis of competitions dealing with
technical knowledge, education and experience.
d)    Conduct periodic evaluations of personnel performance.
e)    Prepare and process  files  relating to appointments,  contracts,
promotions,   transfers,   vacations,   permits,   triennia,   family
assistance, decorations, awards and others.
f)    Keep personnel files and records current.
g)    Prepare personnel training plans.
CHAPTER TWO
ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCE SECTION
ARTICLE 86 - The Administration and Finance Section is a support unit that
provides services of tax processing, procurement and supply of materials and
services and processing of payroll. It reports organizationally to the Secretary
General and has no line authority.
ARTICLE 87 - The objective of the Administration and Finance Section is to
execute the ministerial budget and carry out the corresponding tax processes.



-89-
ANNEX III
Page 40 of 42
ARTICLE 88 - The functions of th,, Administration and Finance Section are
the following:
a)    Plan, direct, record and coordinate financial activities.
b)    Comply with and enforce technical provisions and rules applicable to
the financial area.
c)    See to and ensure correct and timely utilization of the material and
financial resources of the section and their records and controls.
d)    Advise on the financial aspects of the entity.
e)    Establish the payment schedule and ensure its funding to settle all
obligations contracted on a timely basis,
f)    Prepare the preliminary draft budget  in coordination with  the
Ministry of Economy, Commerce and Planning.
g)    Submit reliable accounting-financial statements on a timely basis to
the head of the department and all other information that the
executives of the department require.
h)    Coordinate the administration of the programs managed directly by
external cooperation agencies.
i)    Administer the external financing programs.
CHAPTER THREE
RECORDS AND FILES SECTION
ARTICLE 89 - The Records and Files Section is a support unit responsible
for processing, filing and furnishing to the other ministerial organs all
technical or administrative documents associated with the affairs of the
Ministry. It reports organizationally to the Secretary General and has no line
authority.
ARTICLE 90 - The objective of the Records and Files Section is to provide
information in the form of notes, letters, technical documents, books, pamphlets
and other publications or documents which it is instructed to retain.
ARTICLE 91 - The functions of the Records and Files Section are the
following:
a)    Receive and classify all documents entering the Ministry.
b)    Record and distribute documents to organs that should know of them
and process them.
c)    Keep a current file of communications and records of documents.



-90-
ANNEX III
Page 41 of 42
d)    Dispatch correspondence  prepared by the  several  organs of the
entity.
e)    Report on the status of document processing and keep a record of
documents on loan.
CHAPTER FOUR
GENERAL SERVICES SECTION
ARTICLE 92 - The General Services Section is a support unit responsible for
preserving   and  maintaining   the   health   infrastructure.          It  reports
organizationally to the Secretary General and has no line authority.
ARTICLE 93 - The objective of the General Services Section is to maintain
in optimal -condi'tion the equipment and buildings of the Ministerial Department
and its offices throughout national territory.
ARTICLE 94 - The functions of the General Services Section are the
following:
a)    Perform adequate maintenance of the buildings and vehicles of the
Ministry.
b)    Maintain security services for the buildings and assets of the
Ministry.
c)    Provide maintenance services for property and equipment as well as
the construction of service areas of the Ministry.
d)    Coordinate custodial services.
CHAPTER FIVE
MATERIAL RESOURCES SECTION
ARTICLE 95 - The Material Resources Section is a support unit responsible
for procuring and providing equipment and materials used by the Ministry of
Health.  It reports organizationally to the Secretary General and has no line
authority.
ARTICLE 96 - The objective of the Material Resources Section is to respond
in good time to the requests of the Ministerial Department and its offices
thrtjghout national territory.
ARTICLE 97 - The functions of the Material Resources Section are the
following:
a)    Demand correct and timely preparation of equipment and furnishing
inventories and of average amounts of materials used by the several



-91-
ANNEX III
Page 42 of 42
areas of the Ministry of Health and assist in the periodic requests
of these articles that are made.
b)    Inspect the use of the articles in the several services by means of
periodic replenishment requests and inform senior authorities of any
abnormal consumption observed.
c)    Supervise stocks and movements in the spare parts storehouse by
means of control records.
d)    Complete the requisitions for replenishment of articles needed in
accordance with current regulations.
e)    Reject requests received from users for articles and products which
do not meet requisition requirements or quantity and quality
requirements.
f)    Provide supply reports on a timely basis along with all other data
required to the Administration and Finance Section.
SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISION
The Ministry of Health is authorized to issue whatever orders, instructions
and resolutions it considers necessary for best application of these organic
regulations.
REVOCATION PROVISION
All provisions of the same or lower rank as this that contravene the
provisions of these organic regulations are hereby revoked.
FINAL PROVISION
These organic regulations shall go into effect on the tenth day following
their publication In the Official Gazette of the State and in the national
communications media.
Given in the city of Malabo, on the 25th day of the month of
October of one thousand nine hundred ninety-one.
FOR A BETTER GUINEA
OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
HEALTH IMPROVEMNT PROJECT
HEALTH RECURRENT BUDGET (1985 - 1991)
(in thousands CFA Francs)
Year         Kinistry of Health   Personnel  Drugs and   Other MWR.I   Government         2 Health Budget
Total Budget      Budget  Naterials    Expenses    Total Budget        of Gov, Budget
1985                   350,000      139,665      91,015      119,320      7,760,000           4.5
1986                   379,076      134,400      50,000      194,676      7,979,000           4.8
1987                   295,890      130,470      61,000      104,420     13,209,095           2.2
1988                   454,840      215,040     100,000      139,800     15,905,000           2.9
1989                   4_ ,320      215,770      42,000      175,550     11,333,000           3.8
1990                   450,615      252,015      45,000      153,600     10,E04,000           4.2
1991 (estimate)        457,765      264,590      47,246      161,265     11,343,120           4.0
1/ NVR: Non-wage recurrent
Source: Ministry of Health, iquatorial Guinea



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
PROG    TTRIENAL DE INVERSION PUBLICA DEL SECTOR SALUD
GASTOS EFECTIVOS 1989190 Y PREVISIONES 199111993
(Hillones de FCFA)
GASTO EFECTIVO       PREVISIONES           ?lIp
NONBRE DEL PROYECTO           DONANTE   TIPO DE    1989    1990    1991    1992      1993   199111993
FINMCIACION
Proyecto @Lejoram. Servicios    AIF      C        90.80    67.70    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
de Salud (PROlESSA)
Nuevo Hospital a1labo          China     C         0.00   365.00   249.30    0.00    0.00   249.30
Asistencia NAdica              China      D       61.00    61.20    62.40   60.50     0.00   122.90
Asistencia N4ddica             Cuba       D       22.40    22.60    23.10   18.90    0.00    42.00
Centro Hispano-Guinesno        Espafia    D        0.00   249.80   264.70  280.60   297.40   842.70
de Enfermedades Tropicales
Apoyo Sistems Org. Farmaceutica  a        D        0.00   310.84   329.46  349.20   370.20  1048.80
Establecimiento Sistema Inform.  5       D         0.00    33.40    35.40   37.60    39.80   112.80
Sanitaria
Apoyo Sist.Bgsico Atenci6n       a       D         0.00   740.14   784.50  831.50   881.50  2497.50
Primria de Salud
Proyacto Sanidad                 a       D     1104.70  1159.80  1159.80    0.00     0.00  1217.90
Sanidad Materno-Infantil      FNUAP      D       80.00    80.00    81.60    0.00     0.00    81.60
Apoyo Socio-Sanitario          Francia    D       72.00   217.00   217.00  122.00   122.00   461.00
Desarrollo Salud PUblica       OMS       D       39.30     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Cuidados Primarios de Salud      a       D       25.40     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Lucha antipal6dica y Lepra       a       D       93.60    35.90    32.60    0.00     0.00    32.60
Control SIDA                             D       41.60    18.50     6.00    0.00     0.00    6.00
Progrma Amplio Vacunaci6n        0       D        7.20     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Escuela Nacional de Salud        a       D       30.30     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Sist. Macional de Salud y     PNUD       D        3.10   107.40    62.90   19.70     0.00    82.60
Recursos   umanos
Lucha Paludismo                          D       40.20    79.50    58.40    0.00     0.00    58.40
Programa Amplio Vacunacidn    UNICEF     D       75.00    75.00    76.50    0.00     0.00    76.50



ANN   IV
Page 3 of 3
GASTO E1FECTIVO       PREVISIONES           PIIP
OCORS DEL PROYECTO            DONANTE  TIPO DE    1989    1990      1991    1992    1993    199111993
FINACIACION
Desarrollo Materno-Infantil               D       11.70    11.70    11.90    0.00     0.00    11.90
Proyecto de Salud                         D      260.00   195.00   195.00    0.00     0.00   195.00
Cuidados Primrios de Salud 1edicus1ONG  D          9.30     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Aconibe
Lucha LeprE                   OAPDIONG    D       31.70    32.70   33.40    0.00      0.00    33.40
Apoyo PM                        PNA       D       28.00    14.60    29.70   18.40     0.00    48.10
Asistencia Midica              USSR       D       55.70    55.80    56.90   56.70     0.00   113.60
Suministro Medicamentos        USSR       D       15.00    15.00    15.30   16.10     0.00    31.40
TOTAL                                       2198.00  4049.88  3951.30 1925.00  1831.60  7707.90



-95-
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
HEALTH IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
INDICATIVE LIST OF ESSENTIAL DRUGS TO BE PROCURED
Lista de Medicamentos Esenciales
PRODUCTOS (Drugs)                                            ENVASES (Qty)
Licocaina clorhidrato         iny. 2g. 10 cc .....               100.-
Acido acetilsalicilico        comp. 500 ag                     1.000.-
Paracetamol                   cGimp. 500 m8g                   1.000.-
Indometacina                  comp.  25 mg                     1.000.-
Dipirona               500 mg comp., lg. Ty .1.000 y 100.-
Clorfeniramina                comp.   4 mg                     1.000.-
Prometacina                   camp.  25 mg                     1.000.-
Metronidazol                  comp. 250 m8g .                  1.000.-
Mebendazol                    comp.  100 mg.                   1.000.-
Levamisol                     comp.  1150 mg                   1.000.-
Ampicilina        caps. 250, 500 mg. 1g.iny .......       1.000 y 50.-
Bencilpenicilina                     lg.iny    ........          100.-
Gentamicina                   40, *0 mg.iny ........             100.-
Cloranfenicol                 caps. 250 mg .........           1.000.-
Penicilina Procaina      1.200.000 ui. iny   .........           100.-
Tetraciclina                  caps. 250 mg .........           1.000.-
Cloxacilina sodica       Thy. 500 mg. caps. 500 mg .   100 y 1.000.-
Timetropin mas sulfametoxazol comp. 400/80 mg                  1.000.-
Cloroquina                    comp.  250 mg e iny . 1.000, 100 y 50.-
Prixetamina                   comp.   ................         1.000.-
Quinina         comp. e iny. 300 mg. 300 mg/ml. 2        1.000 y 100.-
Dietil, carbamacina           comp.  500 mg ........           1.000.-
Estreptomicina                1 h. Thy .............             100.-
Griseofulvina                 pomada                             100.-
Griseofulvina                 comp.  500 mg ........           1.000.-
Nistatina                     pamada    .          .             100.-
Nistatina                     comp.  500.000 ul ....           1.000.-
Acido folico                  comp.   25 mg ........           1.000.-
Sulfato ferroso               comp.  500 mg ........           1.000.-
Hierro dextrana               iny. 10 cc    ...........          100.-
Hidroxicobalamina             comp. e iny    ..........   1.000 y 100.-
Manitol            101 y 201 solucion iny    ..........           20.-
Hidroxido de aluminio         comp.  ...............           1.000.-
Atropina                      1 mg./ml. 1 ml   .......           100.-
DigoTina              comp. 0.25 mg., iny. 0.25 ml   . 1.000 y 100.-
Beserpina                     comp. 0.25 mg ........           1.000.-
Neomicina mas Bacitracina     pomada   ...............           100.-
Tetraciclina                  pomada oftalmica  .....            100.-
Betametasona                  iny ..................             100.-
Hidrocortisona                iny. 100 mg   ..........           100.-



-96-
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
PRODUCTOS (Drugs)                                             ENVASES (Qty)
Prednisolona                   comp. 5mg., iny. 25 mg    1.000 y 100.-
Precdnisona                    comp.  S mg ..........           1.000.-
Antitosina tetanica            1.500 ui. iny                      100.-
Gama globulin& antisarampion                                      100.-
Suero ringer                   500 cc. mas Set                     20.-
Suero bicarbonato de Na        500 cc. mas Set ......              20.-
Aminofilina                    iny. 25 mg/ml                      100.-
Salbutamol                     comp. 4mg., Sirup 2 m8g     1.000 y 50.-
Vit. A ? D                     caps. ................           1.000.-
Vit. Bi, B6, B12               comp. e iny ..........   1.000 y 100.-
Vit. K3                        iny ..................             100.-
Diazepan                       comp. 5mg., iny. 10 mg    1.000 y 100.-
Amitriptibina                  comp.  25 mg .........           1.000.-
Sulfato de bario               350 cc   ...............            25.-
Etalil sulfatiazol mas Neomicina           comp. ....           1.000.-
Etalil sulfatiazol mas Streptomicina       comp. ....           1.000.-
Fenobarbital                   comp.  50 mg .........           1.000.-
Ozitocina                      10 ul. iny ...........             100.-
Dexametazona               iny. 5 mg/ml, comp. 0.75 ml   100 y 1.000.-
Furosemida                 iny. 10 mg/ml. 2 ml ..                 100.-
Dextrama 70  6Z 500 cc. mas 0.9X Nael + Set ....                   20.-
Sulfadoiina mas Primetamina 500 + 25 mg. comp. .                1.000.-
Metoclopramida                 iny. lOr 'ml.                      100.-
letaclopramida                 comp.          .. .              1.000.-
Suero glucosado 5Z 500 cc.              .............              20.-
Suero saluna anormal O,9X 500 cc.      ..............              20.-
Equipos de sueros
Yodo                           polvo
Violeta genciana               polvo
Acido salicilico               polvo
Agua oiigenada                 20 vol.
Hercurocromo                   polvo
Alcohol etilico                960 x litro
Gasa hidrofila                 36 a: 100 cm.
Esparadrapo                    5 x 5 cm.
Vendas                         10 i 10 cm.
Sulfadoiina + Pirimetamina  iny.
Algodon                         rollo 1 kg.
Jeringas deshechables con aguja 10 cc.
Reactivos para determinar diferentes grupos sanguineos
Bolsas de transfusion + equipos 500 cc.



-97-
EQUATORIAL GUINEA                                      ANNEX VI
HEALTH IIAPROVEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Annual Contractual and Othor Paymento 1/
(US8 aillion equivalent)
PROJECT YEAR                                              Total
Project Elemeont    Pro-                                                                                      Payment
Project       1           2            3           4          5          6          7
LOAN TIMIOG
_____._____
Signing          08/81/92
Effecti venaca            04/30/92
Completion                                                                                       08/31/98
Closing                                                                                          12/31/98
CIVIL. WORKS
___________
Prequal/B;d/Award            ... .o. .o. .o
Rehab. MOM Officee                 0.00        0.18                                                             0.24
Construction of
PHC Conters                                  0.15        0.18         0.41                                    0.74
Rohab. Drug Warehouso                                      0.06         0.17                                    0.22
GOODS
Voh i ci 3s                                    0.08        0.08                                                 0.14
Equipment/Furniture                            0.03        0.70         0.06                                    0.79
Medical Equipment                              0.06        0.06         0.07                                    0.17
Drugo                                          0.20        0.20         0.20     0.20        2.16               0.96
CONSULTANCIES
_____________
Finon/Mgmt. Analyot                0.06        0.12                                                             0.18
Malariologiat                      0.06        0.06                                                             0.12
Epidemiologist                                             0.06                                                0.08
Accounting Expert                  0.04                                                                         0.04
TRAINING
Fel loushipa/Studios                                       0.03        0.06                                    0.09
Training/Workshopa                             0.07        0.18        0.31      0.08        0.04     0.02     0.70
STO ACTIVITIES 2/
____________________
Surveil lonco                                              0.02         0.02                                    0.04
MISCELLANEOUS
Refinancing PPF                    0.75                                                                         0.75
Operating Coate                    0.04        0.08        0.06         0.06     0.06                           0.27
TOTALS                               1.03        0.98        1.59         1.36     0.33        0.19      0.02      6.5
-----------------------------------------
1/Including Contigoncioo
2/ STD-Sexually-Transmittod Disoaso



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 2
EqUATORIAL GUINEA
HEALTH IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
YEAR 1992          1993              1994              1996
QUARTER
1   2   3   4   1  2   3   4      1   2  3   4          2  3   4
ACTIVITY
01. Appointent of T.A. Staff-
02. Preparstion bidding-
Doce. for civil works
03. Start MIOM REHAB
04. Reconstr. of 4 hsalth centers                                  -------------
05. Purchase orders for vehicles,
Nsw equipoent and furniture
co    06. Procurement of Easential Drugs
o'.         and eedical  raterialS.
07. Training courses for 46 MCiH
Man3gers (3 sessions) and supervisovs.
0. Training courses for 30 nurses
(8 sesions)]
09. Training courss for 70 Auxiliary
Nurmse (3 sessions).
10. Seminar and workshops for 30
central managers (2 sessions).                                              -----------
11. Training courses for 40 birth
attendants (3 sessions).
12. Sexually Trsns3ittod Disea-es



Equatorial Culnea
Hea Ith Improvement Project
Project Cost Sumary
CFA                               USSe                            5 Total
-----__--------------------------    ---------------------------    X Foroign        Bass
Locol   Foreign       Total       Local  Foroign    Total       Exchangs      Costs
A. ONI Inst. Strengthening
1. MOH OrganjPlanning/Hgmt.    123858.1  181657.1  225515.2          438.1   363.8    783.8            46.1       16.6
2. Rehab. MOH Offices            17356.6   42631.8   59888.3          8S.3   147.6   207.9             71.0        4.1
Sub-Totol                          141214.6  144188.9  285483.5          498.4   588.6   991.8            60.6       19.6
8. Hoalth Strategy Dcv.
1. Hoalth Strat. Dev/lmpl.       76842.2    11711.2   87663.6        263.3    4S.7   3$4.0             13.4        a.0
C. Human Resources Dov.
1. Trng/Follosahip/Studios      66886.8    26217.6   87183.8         232.2    78.2   382.4             23.2        6.0
D. Strengthen. Priority Prog
1. Malaria Control              26878.1   68353.3    87831.4          92.6    209.6   302.2            69.3        6.0
2. PHC & MCH Centers             10086.3  327376.4  337480.7          36.1   1138.7   1171.7           97.0       23.2
3. Sesually Trans. Diseases      16892.7   47923.2   84815.9          68.7   l66.4   226.1             73.9        4.5
4. Pilot-Essontial Drugs          9306.7  278663.8  287888.3          32.3   987.2   999.6             98.8       19.8
Sub-Total                           62962.8  714285.4   777168.2        218.6  2479.9  2698.5             91.9       53.6
E. PPF Refinancing                      8.8  21688.8   218888.8           O.0   750.0   756.0            188.8       14.9
Total BASELINE COSTS               348986.8  11:8323.2  1463228.8      1284.6  3841.4  5046.9             76.1      198.0                              o
Physicol Contingencios           34698.6   89032.3  123722.9         128.6   389.1   429.6             72.8        8.6
Prico Contingencies              42471.4  183333.6   146884.4        147.4    368.8    188.3           7°.9       18.0
Total PROJECTS COSTS               424067.6  1298688.5  1722756.0      1472.6  4689.3  5981.8             76.4      118.5
Valuos Scaled by 108.8 - 2/3/1992  16:16
(D 
o hi-
0' 



Equatori7l CDlnoa
Hoalth Improveont Projoct
Sucary Accountm by Yoor
Total% Including Centingoncioo                          Totolo Including Contingencioa
CFA                                                      USo
1I92/93   1993/94   1994/98   199S/96      Total       1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/98      Totol
1. INVESTIINT COSTS
__________________._
A. C;ii I orbo
1. Lt Officoo                 69974.1        9.9       9.0        0.0   69974.1        248.0        0.0       6.0 1      9.9     243.3
2. P3C Contoro                1os460.1  10974.9        O.0        9.0  216139.4         800.2     89s.8       0.0        s.e     747.0
3. Drug Oarchttoou                0.0   8sa84.0        0.0        0.0   66804.0          0.0      220.6       0.0        9.0     229.5
Sub-Total                        176499.2  176478.9       O.0        0.0  850999.1        809.1      609.3       0.0        a.o    1213.4
8. Furnituro
1. Conorol/OMico FurnIturo    22768.6        0.0       0.0        0.G   22768.6         79.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      79.0
2. PNK a WI Contoro               0.0   47526.6        0.0        0.0   47626.6          9.0      16S.9       0.0        0.0     165.0
Sub-Totol                         22733.5   47625.5       0.0        0.0   70209.0          79.0     165.0       0.e        0.0     244.1
C. Equipxont
1. OfMico Equtpeant            la353.5       0.0       0.0        9.0   13633.5         47.0        O.0       0.0        O.S      47.0
2. P3K & W  Equlp=nt              0.0  132706.9        0.0        0.0  13270G.9          0.0      460.0       9.0    O .0        480.3
B. Vohicloc                    248s3.4   18279.1       0.9        9.0   42896.6         G5.4       63.5       0.0        9.0     148.9
4. tidical Equlpocnt           18182.0       0.0   88029.4        0.9   51202.4         46.8        0.9     132.0        9.0     177.3
S. Othor Equopcont             249S.4   18184.9        9.0        0.9   18688.4          0.7       60.2       0.0        0.0      84.9
Sub-Tomol                        53817.4  107169.9   88029.4        o.e  265997.7          106.9    568.5      132.0        0.0       9 1 I
D. Trcin7ng/Follocahp lp
1. Fol lowohipa/Stvdioa           0.0    8225.8    0664.8    8898.8   25877.0            0.0       28.8      29.7       SO.9      99.2
E. Tochnicol Acoiotonco
1. Tochnicol Acoet.anco       96426.7   21934.9   22812.3        0.0  143172.0         .41.0       76.2      79.2       0.9      497.1
7otal 1NVESTDENT COSTS          350438.7  420384.9   89387.3    S898.8  849966.6         1219.9    1469.6      24S.9       39.9    2949.1
II. RECW3ET COSTS
___________________
A. Poroonnol Coate
1. Projoct tVanaq=ns Unit      9171.4    9538.3    9919.8   19316.8   38948.2           81.0      33.1       a4.4      35.S      135.2
2. Controctuolo                415.0    4318.0    4488.0    4688.2   17622.7            14.4       15.9      15.0      18.2       01.2
Sub-Total                        13321.4   13864.3   14408.4   14984.8   68508.9           48.3      48.1       50.0      52.0      198.4
B. Conoumoblo Eotoriolo
1. Training tatoriria           930.6      814.e    1243.7    680.9   3896.9             3.2       2.9        4.3       2.1       12.6
2. Othor M2torialg             2429.9    2927.7    3844.8    3168.6   11S69.9            8.4      10.2       10.86     11.9       40.1                               >
3. Drugo                      66031.2   87832.5   70337.8   73161.3  276162.9          226.8     234.8      244.2     264.9      958.9                           &: Z
Sub-Total                        68382.7   71374.8   74026.3   76924.7  291308.6          237.4     247.8      259.1     267.2    1011.6                               X
C. Trng Cost a Subiotonco
1. In-Country Travel a p.d.   47528.1   68979.9   87391.3   21197.3  195091.7          156.0      2e4.8     234.0       73.6     877.4
0. Oporating Cooto               230897.0   19781.5   28240.9   62011.1  830731.3         801.0      68.7       98.1      189.6    1148.4
Total RECURRENI COSTS            369925.0  183990.8  184688.9  185117.9  973700.4        1249.7     669.4      641.2     673.3    3533.7
===a====== =a-----=-a=        ____|___==                  _-__               ~~-                    - -
Total PROJECT COSTS             719361.9  S8432S.4  264054.2  174014.7  1722758.0        2468.6    2028.9      882.1     604.2    5991.8
Volueo Scoled by 108S.0 2/3/1992  18:17



Equatoriel Guinea
Health leprovmeent Project
Projocto Coepononta by Yoar
Totale Including Contingoncioe                            Totals Includinq Contingencies
CFA                                                         US$
1992/93    1993/94    1994/96    1996/98     Totol       1992/93    1993/94    1994/95    199S/93      Totsl
A. MON Inat. Strengthening
1. MOh Organ/Planning/iMgmt.    141669.8   61722.8   41379.4   20071.7  278833.6            491.9      214.3      143.7       86.5      949.4
2. Rohab. MOH Offices           69974.1         0.S        0.0       0.0   69974.1          243.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      243.0
Sub-Total                          211633.9   61722.8   41379.4   26971.7  340807.7            734.8      214.3      143.7       90.6    1183.4
B. Hoalth Strategy Dev.
1. Health Strot. Dev/Impl.      30691.6   19161.4   24411.7   33538.8  107893.6             106.2       SS.6       e4.8      118.S      373.9
C. Human Rosources Dev.
1. Trng/Folloeahip/Studies      15489.1   46812.0   30812.1   14621.5   106734.7             63.8      159.1      107.0       60.8      370.8
D. Strengthen. Priority Prog
1. Malaria Control              89S76.0   12287.9   10909.0   11346.4  104217.2             241.9       42.7       37.9      39.4       361.9
2. PHC a MCH Contors            106466.1  293946.3    4202.1    4370.2  407974.6            3a8.2    1020.8        14.8       15.2    1418.6
3. Sexually Trona. Diwaseeo         0.0        0.0   71390.3   10979.9   82370.2              0.0        0.0      247.9      36.1       288.0
4. Pilot-E3oontial Drugo        61616.0  161406.2   70949.6   73087.3  365958.1             213.6      525.7      248.4      253.8     1239.4 
Sub-Total                          238847.2  467839.2  167456.9   99782.8  9S1620.1            821.7    1589.0       548.7      346.6    33Z3.9
E. PPF Refinancing                 218900.0       0.0        0.0        0.0  218000.0          760.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      750.0
Total PROJECTS COSTS               710381.8  684326.4  264064.2  174014.7  1722766.0          2466.S    2028.9       882.1    684.2    6931.8
VolutS Scalod by 1000.0 2/3/1992  16:17
(D X 
oec
rt I
La-



Equatoria' Cuinea
Hoolth 1eprovceant Project
Financing Plan by Diaburocent Cotogory
',sS
Equate-iol
IDA         Guinea (iovt.       Total                 Local
--- -------------- ----- ------------- -----------    For.   (Exci.  Duties
Amount     z     Amount    1     Amount    S       Exch.   Taxes)     7 Tx.
A. Civil Worka                   1218.4   160.G      S.S    6.0  1218.4   2S.4  1148.8    69.8          0.0
B. Furniture (Foroign)            156.0  16S.6       0.6    6.6    186.0    2.8   166.0        0.0      8.6
C. Furniture (Local)               18.S  166.0       6.0    S.0      18.S    8.3      S.5     18.0      0.0
D. Equipment (Foreign)            761.6   160.6      6.8    6.6    751.5   12.6   751.6        0.0      0.0
E. Equipcont (Local)               60.6  16S.6       0.6    0.      66.0    1.9       0.6    6S.S       6.0
F. V,hicle                       148.9  166.0       0.6    0.0   148.9    2.6   148.P         0.0      6.0
C. Trng/Fellowship/Studles        773.3  160.6       0.S    6.0   773.3   12.9    89.2   684.2          0.0
H. Technical Assistance           497.1   166.6      0.6    6.6   497.1    8.3   497.1         0.0      0.0
I. Conoumeblos                    46.9  130.6       6.S    S.S      45.9    S.8       0.S    46.9       S.0
J. Essential Drugs               786.8   82.       172.1   17.9   968.9   18.0   968.9         0.0      0.0
K. PPF Refinancing                760.6   106.6     0.0     6.0   756.6   12.6   750.6         0.6      0.0
L. Operating Costs               274.9   69.0    123.4   31.S   398.4    8.7          6.6   398.4       0.S
M. Personnel Salaries              0.6     6.6   196.4  106.6   198.4    a.3          0.6   196.4       0.0
Total Disbureaant               6489.9   91.8   491.9    8.2  5981.8  160.0  4569.3  1472.5             0.0
.-------------------    -----------------------------                                        -                                                       0------
Valuoo Scoled by 1066.0  2/3/1992  18:17
o t-I
o _-4
C% 
0'



Equatorial Guinea
Health loprovoeent Projoct
Financing Plan by Project Coepononta
US8
Equatorial
IDA          Guinoa Govt.        Total                 Local
---------------------------------------------------    For.    (Excl.  Dutieos
Maount     %     Amount     W     Amount    0        Exch.   Taxo3)   A Tax.
A. MGH Organ/Planning/Ugat.        764.1    61.2    176.3    18.8    940.4    16.7    417.2    62.3.2      0.0
S. Rohab. MOH Offices              243.0   100.0      0.0     3.0    243.0     4.1    173.3      69.6      0.0
C. Health Strat. Dov/Impl.         322.2    88.2     61.7    13.8    373.9    6.3       47.7    326.2      0.8
0. Trngfiollowship/Studioe         370.6   100.0      0.0     0.S    370.6    6.2       89.2    281.5      0.S
E. Malaria Control                 291.4    8S.6     70.6    19.5    381.9    6.0    249.0    112.9        0.0
F. PHC A MCH Centers              1416.6   100.0      6.0     0.0   1416.6    23.7   1372.8      43.8      0.0
C. Soxually Trana. Dlaoasoo        266.9    93.8     19.1     8.7    286.0     4.8    211.2      74.8      0.0
H. Pilot-Eoeantial Druga          1086.1    85.9    174.3    14.1   1239.4    20.7   1199.0      40.4      0.0
I. PPF Rofinancing                 765.6   100.0      S.0     0.0    760.0    12.6    760.0       0.0      0.0
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------_
Total Diabursoownt                5489.9    91.8    491.9     8.2   6981.8   100.0   4609.3   1472.6       0.0
VDluOS Scaled by 1000.0 2/3/1992 16:17
lb 
Q
CD
0n 



-104-                                          ANNEX VII
Page 6 of 6
Equator il  Guinon
HNolth ImprovcGfnt Projoct
Oiuburaucnt by Financior by Sc:ostor
use
Equator
lal
Cuinoa
IDA     Govt.   Tot-&I
---------------------------
Amount  Amiaunt  Amount
S4ometer
1    616.8     26.7   6A1.6
2    616.8     26.7   641.6
3    313.9     27.6   341.2
4    84.7      27.6    692.2
6    688.3     66.9   742.2
6    896.5     66.8   964.4
7    920.8    73.9   994.6
9    437.7     73.9   611.6
9    196.4     12.2   208.6
16    131.0     12.2   143.2
11     9.6   658.8    147.4
12     97.2    60.8    148.0
13     15.4      0.0     16.4
14      0.0      0.0      0.6
TOTAL       5489.9   491.9  6981.8
_______________________________________
Veluoa Scoled by 10X.0 2/3/1992 16:17
Equotoriol Guinoo
Health Improvcmont Projoct
Finencing Plan by Foroign Exchango / Locol / Taxog
USe
Equetori o
I Guinoo
IDA       Govt.        Total
---------------------------------
Aoount     Amount     Amount
I   Foreign                      4337.2      172.1     4509.3
It  Local (Excl. Taxeo)          1162.8      319.9     1472.6
III Taxe                            6.0        0.0        8.0
Total Project                    6489.9      491.9     5981.8
Values Scaled by 1000.0  2/3/1992  16:17



ANNEX VIII
EqULATORIAL GUINEA
Health Improvement Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(U$ thousand equivalent)
IDA
Fiscal Year,'   Disbursement    Cumulated       Cumulated        Undisbursed
Semester         Per Semester    Amount         Per cent         Balance
FY 92
April 30, 1997      750v            750         14               4,750
Jun. 30, 1992       283           1,033         19               4,467
FY 93
Dec. 31, 1.992      314           1,347         24               4,153
Jun. 30, 1993       665           2,012         36               3,488
FY 94
Dec. 31, 1993       687           2,699         49               2,801
Jun. 30, 1994       900           3,599         65               1,901
FY 95
Dec. 31, 1994       921           4,520         82                 980
Jun. 30, 1995       438           4,958         90                 542
FY 96
Dec. 31, 1995       197           5,155         94                 345
Jun. 30, 1996       131           5,286         96                 214
FY 97
Dec. 31, 1996        97           5,383         97                  117
Jun. 30, 1997        97           5,480         99                  20
FY98
Dec. 31, 1997        20           5,500        100                    0
NOTE: Expected Board Date: March 3, 1992
Expected Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1992
Expected Date of Project Completion: June 30, 1996
Expected Closing Date: December 31, 1998
Disbursement profile based on Regional historical disbursement profile
for Equatorial Guinea.
I/ Includes repayment to IDA of PPF advance of US$750,000



- ] Q6-                        ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 5
UODC
O     Number and type of personnel age calculated according to the
Personnel Plan, assuming full, autonomous operation of the
Malabo Hospital.
O     Personnel Costs ago estimated to cover 501 of the total
recurrent cost of the Malabo Hospital and form the basis for
the calculation of other cost items.
O     Overall Medical Supplies (dgugs, phagmceutical, otheg
medical supplies) are estimated at 24Z oe the total
recurrent cost. Of these 241, 19g age inaugred by the
purchase of dgugs.                                                            m
0     Non Hedical Supplies age ostimated to mkO up 7S of the
total recurrent costs.
0     Cost for Utilities (fuels. oloctrielty, w9atog, otc) age
estimated at 8E of te'o total recurggent coste.
0     Maintenance of buildin$, plants and equipment is estimted
at 61 of the total recugrant costs. These coots do not
includo the hospital based maintenance personnel.
0     All other costs and foos ace combined undoge  lscellaneous.
These costs age estimated at S5 of the total recuggent
costs.
0     The projected gevenuee assume 1001 retention of fees
collected at the hospital.
Except for the Personnel Costs, whlch ace ssumed to remain stable
throughout the foug year period covered in the model, all cost items are
calculated to Lncrea*e by at least 6.31 each year. This will cover
inflation.



ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 5
MALABO HOSPITAL
Revenue Projections 1992-1995
ASSUMPTIONS                                  1992         1993          1994          1995
Total Beds                                     70            70           70            70
VIP-Beds                                        4             4            4             4
General Ward Beds                              66            66           66            66
Utilization Inpatient-All Wards(Z)             60            70           80            85
Exemptions, etc. (Z) Inpatients                50            40           35            35
Nonpayers Outpatients (Z)                      50            50           40            30
Charges Inpatient (1,000 CFA)
General Ward                                 1            1             1           1.3
VIP-Beds                                     3            3             3             4
Drugunit (per stay)                        0.8          0.8           0.8           0.9
Med. Services (per day)                    0.3          0.3           0.3           0.5
Charges for Outpatients (1,000 CFA)           0.5           0.5          0.5           0.7
Charge for Outpat. Drugs(1,000 CFA)          0.30         0.30          0.35          0.35
Bed Days- General Ward                     24,090       24,090        24,090        24,090
Bed Days- VIP                               1,460        1,460         1,460         1,460
Patient Days-General Ward                  14,454       16,863        19,272        20,477
Patient Days-VIP                              876        1,022         1,168         1,241
Outpatients Cons.                          30,000       30,000        30,000        30,000
Average Length of Stay                        7.C           7.0          7.0           7.0
Patients                                    2,190        2,555         2,920         3,103
Revenues (1,000 CFA)
Wards                                    3,614        5,059         6,263         8,651
VIP-Beds                                   657          920         1,139         1,613
Inpatient Drugs                         1,752         2,044         2,336        2,792
Inpatient Med. Services                14,892        17,476        20,031       21,283
Outpatient Drugs                         4,500        4,500         6,300         7,350
Outpatient Consultations                 7,500        7,500         9,000       14,700
Total                                   32,915       37,499        45,069       56,39C
== ==  ==……= == = = = =    = = =-==      = = = = =



-108-
ANNEX IX
MALABO HOSPITAL              Page 3 of 5
PROJECTED FINANCIAL STATEMENT
(1,000 CFAs)
Z Personnel Cost:Total            50
Proj. Inflation in Z             6.3
|EXPENDITURE ITEM    11    1992       |    1993       |    1994             1995
|PERSONNEL EXPENSES  ||
I Salary             II        18,372 I        18,372          18,372          18,372
Gratuity          H          2,021           2,021 I          ,021            2,021
IMEDICAL SUPPLIES
Drugs & Dressings            7,749 I         8,238 I         8,756            9,308
|- Med. Supplies etc.11         2,039 |         2,168 1         2,304 1         2,450
|NON-MEDICAL SUPPLIES|II              I               I
1- Linen, Uniforms,  H1         2,855 |         3,035 |         3,226 |         3,429
1 Cleansing Mat.,etcll
I~~~~~~~~~~~~I                    
IFOOD                                 I
-Patients                          0 0 O           OO                               Oj
UTILITY
Electricty, Water,|1         3,263 1         3,468 1         3,687 1          3,919
fuels,etc         I                                |
I~~                  ~     ~    ~~              ~~              ~~              ~~ li  I  I  iI
IMAINTENANCE
- Building,         I          2,447           2,601 I         2,765 I          2,939
Equipment, etc
IMISCELLANEOUS       II               I
1- Administration,              2,039 |         2,168 |         2,304 |          2,450 |
Fees, Miscellanous| I
I                    I I              I ==-3=l===a33===wl=========== I======c===3lam======== | 
(OPERATING EXPENSES  |i        40,786 |        42,071 |        43,436           44,888
I 3= 3=== 3=====  I I ===S==~===  =ln3==I==5==============I= I=l========
IDEPRECTIATION       I                I               I
!-Equipment                           I               I                I               I
g-Buildings          II                       I               I                I
I ===================||3I===============|I====3==========|= I=5==3=======|= ===============|
INON-OPERATING EXPS  11             0 1             0 1             0 |              0
IGRANDTOTALI402====7==========43======4====8===8===========================| I
|GR~AND TOTAL        Hl        40,786 |        42,071 |        43,436 |44,888 |
I ==3===========n==3=no= I========3=== I========-     I ========a=======|==I============s==|



-109-                              ANNEX IX
Page 4 of 5
Summary of Expenditures by Category
jEXPENDITURE ITEM    II     1992       |    1993        I    1994       1    1995
|=a=D=3=====I I a===5a=====o==a= I===oo==3=====3==…=Z=====_==-==-c
|PERSONNEL EXPENSES            20,393 |         20,393 I         20,393 I        20,393 I
IMEDICAL SUPPLIES    II         9,789           10,405 |        11,061 f         11,758
INON-MEDICAL SUPPLIESII         2,855 1          3,035 1          3,226 I         3,429
IFOOD                II              0 1             0 1              01              0
IUTILITY CHARGES     II         3,263 1          3,468 |         3,687            3,919
IMAINTENANCE, EQUIPM.I1         2,447 1          2,601 I         2,765            2,939 I
IMISCELLANEOUS       11         2,039            2,168 I          2,304 1         2,450
I =3o=====-===-====l======= II0==00000I=-=  ----=--!=========0==============l=======
ITOTAL                         40,786 I         42,071 I        43,436 I         44,888
l==========   0===,j,=,====,_ 0==0=0= == = = === ====== = ==  ==._====
IDEPRECIATION                        0 |             0 |              0 |             0 |
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ =========_.=======2==-=… 0… … …==-
IGRAND TOTAL         II        40,786 i         42,071 |        43,436 |         44,888 |
I ==================         I          = = == === | = ===e=__======= ==I
Percentage of Expenditures by Category
IEXPENDITURE ITEM    II    1992        |    1993       I    1994        |     1995
=-====--=====-====-=ll-=I=I … ===-====l==-=…= =---====lI …Z= = …====I-======
IPERSONNEL EXPENSES  11         50.00%|          48.47Z|          46.95Z1         45.4311
IMEDICAL SUPPLIES    II         24.00:1          24.73Z1         25.46:1          26.1921
INON-MEDICAL SUPPLIESII           7.00:1          7.21Z1           7.43Z1          7.64.1
IFOOD                11          0.00:I           0.00°°           0.00%1          o.oozj
|UTILITY CHARGES     II          8.00Z|           8.2421           8.4911          8.7311
IMAINTENANCE, EQUIPM.I1          6.001Z           6.18ZI           6.37ZI          6.55Z1
IMISCELLANEOUS                   5.00%1           5.15:1           5.3121          5.46:1
1==========11==-====1========== I=--=~~=========1=======1
ITOTAL               11        100.00Zi         100.0021         100.00Z1        100.00Z1
I ==================== I I=============== I======…=== =========== -.=====-
Financial Summary
IEXPENDITURE ITEM    II     1992       |     1993            1994       |     1995
=0=0=0=00=0==== …====1I=============== =0= = = ====i-=-==---=--…====-====
INET REVENUES        II        32,915 |         37,499 I         45,069 |        56,390 |
I========z=  1=======1====000000====== II=1=5=====1======
IEXPENDITURES        11        40,786           42,071           43,436          44,888 I
I ====================1I=====I  ============= ======       =========1==-====1
IOPERATING PROFIT    I          (7,871)1       t(4,572)1          1,633 1        11,502 |
I =========f=========== I I ========a  ==5-===================|=====-==========|=
ILESS DEPRECIATION   11              0 1             0                0               0 I
I =====C========= ==i I=============== ============== I ==============l=…=======
INET PROFITS                    (7,8,1)|        (4,572)1          1,633 I        11,502 |
I ============== ==1========   ========I===== …=0=0==0= ======= =  ===1======
Statistical Summary
ISTATISTIC           H      1992       |    1993        1    1994       I    1995
jProfit/Net Revenue  1I         -23.91ZI        -12.19%1           3.62:1         20.40o:
ITotal Cost/Pat Day  11          2.661 1         2.352 |          2.125 I         2.067
1(1,000 CFA)         I|
I =z============-I I ===S===1===… =-=5===1======_1======



-11 ]_                              ANNEX IX
Page 5 of 5
PERSONNEL EXPENDITURESH   0O HOSPITAL
Average   I            I t
Personnel Category       I Cost/Honth I    No.        Costs
I (1,OOOCFA) II           lper Year I
I             .                     .      II. .... .  I..i,.
IDoctors                     j          35 11       12      5 5,040
I                            I             1104        I           I
IATS                                    25 11       12      3.600 |
jNurseo                                  18  1I     6      1.296
lAillliarios                 1          12          23 I   3,312
IPhaiacy Aunll1iagy                     12 1         3 I      432 I
JSurgery Rooma               I          18 11        2 |      432 |
iSurgery Room Aw11iary  t               12 11        a |      288        .
Ifoggeorey Room            . I          12 11        2 I      288 1
I         11           I          I
IAdl±setrator/Accountant J..            25 11        I 1      300 1
orsonnol Hnagog. otc.                   20  II       1        240 I
IStot±stician, etc                       1s II      2 I      432
ISOcrot8ries, etc.           I          12 I         3 I      432
iCloaning Staff              I           8 I         8 I      768
Imaintenaance                           11 II        4        528
Igio-Engineer                I          18 II        1 I      216 
IMQoGQreS                    I           8 I I       3 1      288 1
ILaundry                                a 8]j       31       288
Gagdnog                     I           811         21       192
I O3TOTAL                    I                             18,37 2 wX    mmin
I           TOTAL            I              II      90 IO  18,372 I
I                            I             11           1          1
.~~ICDDOD00U'3 



ANNEX X
Run Time: 02/05/92 at 10.05.51
Status Of Bank Group Operatlons In EQUATOR,AL GUINEA
PFOBR25 - Summary Statement Of Loans and IDA Credits
(LOA data as of 12/30/91 - MIS data as of 02/05/92)
Amount In USS million
(less cancellatlons)
Loan or       Flscal                                                                                       Undis-  Closing
Credlt No.      Year   8orrowar                          Purpose                      Bank          IDA     bursed   Date
CredIts
5 Credits(s) closed                                                                               21.70
C14890-EQG      1984    EQUATORIAL GUINEA                TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                      6.00         .64  03/31/92(R)
C17970-EQG      1987    EQUATORIAL GUINEA                EDUCATION I                               5.10       3.64  06/30/94
C21810-EQG      1991    EQUATORIAL GUINEA                CROP DIVER & AGRIC S                      6.30       5.27  12/31/96
TOTAL number Credits -    3                                                                         17.40       9.55
TOTAL*n                                                                           39.10
of which repaid
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA                                                          39.10
Amount sold
of which repald
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                              9.56
Notes:
Not yet effectIve
Not yet sIgned
aea Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and Inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) Indicates formally revised Closing Date.
(S) Indlcates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historical value, all others are market value.
The Slgning, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department offlcal data and are not taken
from the Task Budget file.



]2-
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
HEALTH DMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.    Hinisterio de Sanidad, Guinea Ecuatorial
Proyecto Mejoramiento de Servicios de Salud
Informe Final, Mayo 1, 1990
2.    Hinisterio de Sanidad, Guinea Ecuatorial
Mesa de Seguimiento Sector Salud
Volumen I, Septiembre 1990
3.    Inds Gil Briceflo, M.D.
Programa de Prevenci6n y Control de las Enfermedades de
Transmisi6n Sexual en la Repfiblica de Guinea Ecuatorial
Septiembre 1990
4.    Paulino Mbo, Arquitecto Tdcnico
Memoria Descriptiva y Pliego de Condiciones para Obras de
Centrcis de Salud Rurales
5.    Luciano Abaga Nchama
Programa de Informaci6n, Educaci6n y Comunicaci6n en el
Campo de la Salud
Octubre 1990
6.    Dr. Delmin Cury
Control Integrado de Vectores en la Isla de Bioko y la
Ciudad de Bata
Febrero 1990
7.    Ministerio de Economia, Comercio y Planificaci6n, Fondo de
Poblaci6n de las Naciones Unidas
Resultados del Censo de 1983
Marzo 1990
8.    Gregorio Gori Homolu y Jos6 Luis Gonzales Tavara
Informe Sobre la Situaci6n Actual del Suministro de
Medicamentos Esenciales a la Poblaci6n Ecuatoguineana
Julio 1990
9.    Indicative List of Drugs and Equipment for Health Centers



MAP SECTION



19'                                       10                                    _    -I
i                              JX fiQUXTORIAL GUINEA
HEALTH IMPROVEMENT
PROJECT
MAIA;O                                    gf                              A     PROJLCT HFALTH CENTERS
y                                                                 03     HOSPITALS
I ,r BDGrrznO3-                EXISTING ASPHALT ROADS
Ilcolw
G-do Et                        .                  .    \ .                 EXISTING LATERITE ROADS
Da  lIub*:    7t1rIfl      
H10to10 LuI                                        O K O                                     -    PLANNED ROADS
80o-              be,      K                                                               --     RIVERS
okor \ -' Mky                                                                             PORTS
4 +   AIRPORTS
\  - -s BRIDGES
p  *  NATIONAL CAPITAL
/                          =      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Ebc.low°g?o9' ,
0      20      40     60      80 so
KILOMETERS
MILES                                    CAMEROON
0    10   20    30    40   5M
Rio Camp.( \=
~~~ 2                                     ( - ^  <yo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ymi Ken    Beayop            s,   bb/i-
ANNO0ON 1.Ba \
T'30'                 r30                          f f '                  \             (  nsoc
V 306                                                  tobo
BoIon4o,> J sSenye                   0 R   I  0    M    U   N   I
AkaloyMbiu  >    </<    \                 Mang Coom
F               gr°   E5N I G E R;   ovn                                          <v        inny y
OIOEr.  (4     VELOBEY CHICO                       --.                                     U eo
bU'N~~~~~~~EA  OBEEY GRANE IS^,_,,  ,_
N!G                                                                                             A     e
Annoboo t ~~ '  <_J  X   DYI.    ',         r~his map has breen prepared by The World Bonk's staff exclusively for the
t!t                     I       ~~~~~~~~~~convenience of readers and is exrclusively for the infernal use of The World
*-                      ,        ~~~~~~~~~Bank Group. The denomninations used and the bol Indaries shown on this
E  t                   ;       ~~~~~~~~map do not imply, on the pant of The World Ban; Group, any judgment
>    x             \  l        ~~~~~~~~on the leglal status of any territory or any endorsenr'nt or acceptar.ce of
kA N G 0 L A       '  '        ~~~such boundories.
,,,  ,   I'   .                  .,,1             ~~~~~~~~~19-                                1'
DECEYBERG1991



