Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2348 EG
                   (Health Improvement Project)
                              between
                   REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated April 6, 1992
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2348 EG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 6, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL
GUINEA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
Page  2
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "BEAC" means the central bank of the Borrower;
      (b)   "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (c)   "MC" means the managing committee of MOH (as hereinafter
defined) referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement, and
described under Part A.1 (a) (i) of the Project;
      (d)   "MCH/FP" means the mother and child health and family
planning component described under Part C.2 of the Project;
      (e)   "MOH" means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower;
      (f)   "AFU" means the administration and finance unit referred
to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement and described under Part A.1
(a) (iii) of the Project;
      (g)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges of letters dated July 14, 1988 and October 24,
1988, and April 5, 1990 and May 15, 1990 between the Borrower and
the Association;
      (h)   "PU" means the planning unit of MC referred to in
Section 3.08 of this Agreement and described under Part A.1 (a) (ii)
of the Project; and
      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 3,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Page  3
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 2002 and ending March 15, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2012 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  4
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is here-
by specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through its
Ministry responsible for Health with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall prepare and submit to the
Association by December 31, 1993, an action plan to extend the fee
policy applied on the date of this Agreement at the Malabo and Bata
hospitals to other hospitals, and implement such plan, satisfactory
to the Association, not later than June 30, 1994.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association shall review in
October of each year during the execution of the Project: (a) all
investment expenditures in the health sector during the previous
year and those planned for the coming three years, with particular
attention on their recurrent cost implications; and (b) the
allocation of the recurrent budget across existing programs and
services to cover at least their estimated annual operating costs
for materials, drugs, fuel, maintenance and equipment.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall prepare and submit to the
Association by March 31, 1993, for review, a new list of national
essential generic drugs, guidelines on prescriptions, norms for
imported drugs and the qualifications of pharmacists and their
assistants.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) evaluate each year
during the execution of the Project, technical and management
training activities undertaken during the previous year; (b) furnish
to the Association for its review and approval by October of each
year revised training plans based on such evaluation; and (c)
implement such plans taking into consideration the Association's
comments.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) starting in fiscal year
1992, increase MOH's budgetary allocation to cover part of its non-
wage recurrent expenditures by at least CFAF 150.8 million and
maintain such allocation in subsequent years during the execution of
the Project; and (b) open and maintain a counterpart fund account in
BEAC and annually deposit therein the amount referred to under
paragraph a) above, in four quarterly installments of CFAF 37,700,-
000 each made not later than March 31, June 30, September 30 and
December 31 of each year.
      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall maintain MC, PU and AFU
operational and fully staffed with qualified and experienced persons
in adequate numbers during the execution of the Project.
      Section 3.09. For all fellowships financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Borrower shall: (a) submit to the Association for
its review the functions and qualifications of the candidates and
the proposed training program; and (b) take all necessary measures
to ensure that all trained staff remains assigned to the job for
which it was trained for a period of at least three years.
      Section 3.10. The Borrower and the Association shall not later
Page  5
than June 30, 1994, conduct a mid-term Project implementation review
to monitor progress in carrying out the Project and meeting its
objectives. Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing,
such review shall include an evaluation of the: (a) functioning of
essential management structures of MOH; (b) progress of cost
recovery measures for drug sales and medical fees and their impact
on health care service quality and utilization; (c) progress of
training activities and the performance of trained staff; (d)
progress of the priority programs, particularly the MCH/FP, malaria
control and essential drugs programs; and (e) general administration
of the Project, including timely availability of counterpart funds
and their use, compliance with agreed procurement and auditing
requirements, maintenance of equipment and facilities financed under
the Project, and MOH reporting duties.
      Section 3.11. In order to carry out Part C.2 of the Project,
the Borrower shall: (a) submit to the Association for review not
later than December 31, 1993, proposals for staff nominations to the
four rural health centers; and (b) thereafter ensure that such
centers are staffed at all times with qualified and experienced
persons in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.12. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.04
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall obtain the Association's prior
approval for any hospital renovation/construction estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,500,000 or more.
                             ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account and the counterpart fund
                  account for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
                  dance with appropriate auditing principles con-
                  sistently applied, by independent auditors ac-
                  ceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Associ-
                  ation has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Page  6
                  Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in para-
                  graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                  such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
                  ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls in-
                  volved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                  to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the account referred to under Section 3.07 (b) of this
agreement has been opened in BEAC, and the initial deposit of CFAF
37,700,000 for the first quarter has been made therein;
      (b)   MOH's revised organizational structure referred to under
Part A.1 (a) of the Project, satisfactory to the Association, has
been adopted; and
      (c)   an adequate accounting system for the Malabo and Bata
hospitals has been prepared and is operational, and MOH's staff has
been trained to operate it.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Health of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Health
            Malabo
            Guinea Equatorial
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINISANTE                 939 5405
                  Malabo
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
Page  7
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
                        By /s/ Damaso Obiang
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                 710,000        100%
(2)  Furniture,                  660,000        100%
     equipment,
     vehicles
     and materials
(3)  Drugs                       440,000        90% through
                                                December 31, 1994,
                                                60% thereafter
(4)  Consultants'                760,000        100%
     services, training
     and fellowships
(5)  Incremental                 190,000        90% through
     operating costs                            December 31, 1993,
                                                60% through
                                                December 31, 1995,
                                                30% thereafter
(6)  Refunding of                520,000        Amounts due
     Project                                    pursuant to
     Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                    of this Agreement
Page  8
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(7)  Unallocated                 620,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                 3,900,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "incremental
operating costs" means salaries of contractual staff, operating
costs of the new facilities and vehicles, and fuel.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures: (a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 50,000 may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after February
1, 1992; (b) under Category (3) above, until the Borrower has
submitted to the Association decrees, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, introducing the list of essential generic drugs, the drug
prescription guidelines and the quality control measures referred to
under Section 3.05 of this Agreement, and authorizing the retention
by individual facilities of the funds generated by the drug cost
recovery mechanism to finance their non-wage recurrent expenditures;
and (c) under Categories (3) and (5) above, after March 31 of each
year during the execution of the Project, unless the deposit of CFAF
37,700,000 corresponding to the first quarter of such year has been
made into the account referred to under Section 3.07 (b) of this
Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the Borrower's
capacity in planning, coordinating and monitoring health sector
activities.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Strengthening of the Health Sector
1.    Strengthening of MOH through:
      (a)   the reinforcement of: (i) MC to continuously review,
plan and program health policies, monitor program implementation,
and ensure intra-sectoral and external coordination; (ii) PU to
assist MC in day-to-day planning, programming and coordinating of
all health sector activities and investments; and (iii) AFU to
support MC in the areas of accounting, procurement and general
administration of the Project; and
      (b)   the streamlining and clarification of the functions of
selected departments, staff redeployment and decentralization of
decision-making, the execution of seminars and workshops for MOH's
staff at all levels, the rehabilitation of offices and the acquisi-
tion of office equipment and furniture.
2.    Strengthening of Hospital Management
      Strengthening of the financial and managerial autonomy of the
Malabo and Bata hospitals through the improvement of the accounting,
financial and control systems, and the introduction of a schedule of
fees.
Part B:     Health Strategy Development and Implementation
Page  9
      Establishment of a management information system to collect,
process and disseminate key data on epidemiological developments,
service activities, status of health infrastructure, personnel,
budgets, drug supplies and donor programs; preparation of the
national health strategy; execution of seminars and workshops for
MOH's staff; and acquisition of equipment.
Part C:   Strengthening of Priority Health Programs
1.    Malaria control: training of village health workers on early
detection methods and administration of anti-malaria drugs, and
control/reduction of the mosquito vector initially on the Bioko
island.
2.    MCH/FP: construction and equipment of four health centers in
the Micomiseng and Acurenam districts and rehabilitation and
equipment of the MCH/FP centers at the Malabo and Bata Hospitals,
and technical and management training of staff responsible for
MCH/FP services.
3.    Sexually transmitted diseases (STD): establishment of an STD
national control center in Bata for diagnosis, treatment and data
compilation, staff training and acquisition of equipment and office
furniture.
4.    Pilot program for essential drugs: establishment of a more
sustainable essential drug supply and cost recovery system for the
public health sector, development of efficient procedures for
procurement, distribution and management of essential generic drug
supplies on a decentralized basis and through community participa-
tion, creation of a central drug supply unit and a therapeutic
committee to issue norms and guidelines for the qualification of
pharmacists and their assistants, and minimum quality standards for
imported drugs, and training of local pharmacists.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods, drugs and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works and items
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or more.
3.    Goods and drugs shall be exempted from pre-shipment price
inspection by a third-party inspection firm.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Equatorial
Guinea may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
Page  10
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works for the rehabilitation of MOH offices estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $311,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, adver-
tised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $177,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$10,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $120,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    Purchase of drugs and medical equipment may be made through
UNICEF (including pre-packaged supplies from UNIPAC, Copenhagen) in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $20,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
Page  11
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $50,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                   quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                   such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required pursu-
                   ant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which reple-
                   nishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
Page  12
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
