The World Bank
FO1R OMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6111
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
(LOAN 1196-PE)
March 24, 1986
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
Transportation 2 Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TIE WORLD BANK
WahIngton D.C. 20433
USA.
0    d  O dtwGnua
Opswm  bivgm
March 24, 1986
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Peru Lima-Amazon Transport
Corridor Prolect (Loan 1196-PE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Peru Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor
Project (Loan 1196-PE)" prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean
Regional Office. Under the modified system for project performance
auditing, further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation
Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a icted distibution and may be used by ripents only in the peformance
of thiur offica dutis Its contents may not otherwie be dislosed without World Baek autboriation.



FOR OFFICIAL US ONLY
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT (LOAN 1196-PE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE                                                           i
BASIC DATA SHEET                                                 Ii
HIGHLIGHTS                                                        v
I. INTRODUCTION                                                      I
II. PROJECT PREPARATION, APPRAISAL AND NEGOTIATIONS                   2
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                            3
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND DISBURSEMENTS                                 15
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE: PORT COMPONENT                            16
VI. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                        19
VII* ECONOMIC REEVALUATION                                            21
VIII. ROLE OF THE BANK                                                  22
IX. CONCLUSIONS                                                      22
TABLES
1.   Estimated Costs of the Project                                    25
2.   Road Component: Actual, Appraisal and Reformulation Costs         26
3.   Road Component: Contract and Cost Data                            27
4.   Port Component: Actual, Appraisal and Reformulation               28
Estimates of Project Costs
5.  ENAPU - Forecast and Actual Port Traffic                           29
6.   ENAPU - Forecast and Actual Income Statements, 1976-1982          30
7.  ENAPU - Forecast and Actual Balance Sheets as of                   31
December 31, 1975-1082
8.   Forecast and Actual Project Ports Traffic                         32
9.   Forecast and Actual Income Statements and Project Ports,          33
1978-1982
10.  Lima-Pucallpa Road Traffic Flows                                  34
11.  Representative Vehicle Operating Costs                           .35
12.  Economic Rates of Return: Appraisal Estimates                     36
ANNEX
I.   Implementation of Oroya-Huanuco Road Works                        37
MAP
IBRD 11304 (PCR)
This document ha a stricted distibution and may be used by .Iplnts only in the pefomnce
of their oici dutis Its contents may not otberwise be discokd without World dUnk authorlhtion.



PM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT (LOAN 1196-PE)
PREFACE
The following Is a Project Completion Report on Peru's Lima-Amazon
Transport Corridor Project for which Loan 1196-PR in the amount of US$76.5
million was approved by the Executive Directors on December 30, 1975. The
loan closed on February 28, 1985. Some 93% of the loan amount (US$70.8
million) had been disbursed from the loan account at its closure.
This Completion Report was prepared by the Bank's Latin America and
the Car".bbean Reglonal Offlce and is based on Information obtained from LAC
Information Center, Staff Appraisal Report No. 659a-PE, staff supervision
reports, and data on project costs collected from the Ministry of Transport
and Comunications.
In accordance with the revised project performance reporting
procedures this report has been read in the Operations Evaluation Department
COED) but the project was not audited by OED staff. The draft Completion
Report was sent to the Borrower for comments; however, none were received.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT cORRIDOR PROJECT (LOAN 1196-PE)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Actual/
Cirreat
Item                             Original Plan        Estimate
Total Project Cost (USSmillion)                    128.7              126.1 1/
Overrun (%)                                                          -2
Loan Amount (US$ million)                           76.5               76.5
Disbursed (US$ million)                                              70.8
Cancelled 2/                                                          3.2
Outstanding to cancel                                                 2.5
Economic Rate of Return
Road Component (Z)                               23                  20
Port Component (2)                               22                  12
Dates Physical Components Completed
Road Compo'nent                               June 1980           June 1985
Port Component                                December 1978       March 1982
Financial Performance                                             Below Target
Institutional Performance                                         Below Target
Other Project Data
First mention on Files                                       August 1973
Appraisal                                                    May/June 1974
Negotiations                                                 June 1975
Board Approval                                               December 30, 1975
Loan and Project Agreements                                  May 27, 1976
Effectiveness                                                August 18, 1976
Closing Date                             December 31, 1980  February 28, 1984
Borrower                                           Republic of Peru
Executing Agency                      Ministry of Transport and Communications
Fiscal Year of Borrower                            January 1 - December 31
1/ Cost of scaled down project.
2/ As of February 28, 1984.



- iii -
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT
MISSION DATA
No. of   Man/    Date of
Item             Month/Year       No. of Days  Persons  Days    Report
Identification      August 1973            8           1      8      10/26/73
Preparation         June 1974             10           6     60      5/6/74
Preappraisal        January 1975          10           2     20      2/7175
Appraisal           March 1975            10           2     20      5t22/75
(Grey Cover)
12/15/75
Total                                                       108
Supervision I       July 1976             10           3     30      816/76
Supervision II      September 1976         7           2     20      9/21/76
Supervision III     October 1976           4           1      4      11/5/76
Supervision IV      January 1977           7           2      4      1/21/77
Supervision V       February 1977          5          4      20      4/14/77
Supervision VI      Junn 1977             11           4     44      7/14/77
Supervision VII     August 1977            5           1      5      8/26/77
Supervision VIII    September 1977        10           1     10      10/13/77
Supervision IX      October 1977          10           3     30      1/5/78
Supervision X       March 1978            13           3     39      4/27/78
Supervision XI      April 1j78            10           2     20      5/8/78
Supervision XII     May 1978              11          4      44      9/15/78
Supervision XIII    June 1978              3           1      3      7/12/78
Supervision XIV     September 1978        11           3     33      11/16/78
Supervision XV      November 1978         14          2      28      1/8/79
Supervision XVI     January 1979          10          2      20      2/27/79
Supervision XVII    March 1979            15           3     45      7/23/79
Supervision XVIII   July 1979              5          2      10      10/25/79
Supervision XIX     October 1979           4          4      40      12/15/79
Supervision XX      November 1979          8          3      24      1/7/80
Supervision XXI     April 1980             3           1      3      5/12/80
Supervision XXII    May 1980               8          2      16
Supervision XXIII   September 1980        10          2      20      1/28/81
Supervision XXIV    November 1980         10          4      40      12/29/81
Supervision XXV     May 1981              11          6      66      7/15/81
Supervision XXVI    November 1981          5           1      5      1/6/82
Supervision XXVII   June 22, 1982         10           1     10      8/23/82
Supervision XXVIII  August.1982            3           1      3      9/17/82
Supervision XXIX    October 1982           8          2      16      12/6/82
Supervision XXX     February 6, 1983       5          2      10      3/30/83
Supervision XXXI    August 1983            4          2       8      9/14/83
Supervision XXXII   November 1983          3          1       3     11/18/83
Supervision XXXIII  April 1984             3          3       9      5/11/84
Total                                                      Tff



- iv -
PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIMA-AMAZON TRAEPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT (LOAN 1196-PE)
COUNTRY EXCEANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                        Soles (SI.)
Year                                        Exchange Rate
Appraisal Year 1975                                US$1   S/. 45
1976                                           56
1977                                           84
1978                                          156
1979                                          225
1980                                          289
1981                                          422
1982                                          698
1983                                        1,629
1984                                        3,404



PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT (LOAN 1196-PE)
HIGHLIGHTS
The main objective of the project was to improve access along the
Lima-Amazon transport corridor through the improvement of several sections
along the Central Highway, construction of feeder roads, and construction or
Improvement of three amazon river ports. The project, after considerable
delays in initiating the road works, was reformulated in 1979, with the scope
of the road works reduced and a road maintenance component added. The
project was largely completed some five years behind schedule.
The project experienced extremely difficult implementation problems
linked to deficient engineering; progressively weakening MTC technical and
managerial capacity, resulting from low compensation and professional staff
leaving government service; lack of counterpart funds, exacerbated by
difficult economic conditions experienced over the course of the project;
complex bureaucratic procedures which hampered procurement of goods and
services, and later, the resolution of contractual disputes; and, in the
latter years of the project, redirection of MTCts efforts to areas affected
by the natural disasters of 1983. Because of these problems, work on some
sections of the Central Highway are still under execution. Despite these
problems, the project did succeed in significantly Improving access to the
very important corridor from the coast to the central mountains and the
Amazon region beyond. The ex-post economic evaluation indicates that the
road component, with an overall economic rate of return of 201, was well
justified. The port component, though still justified, had a lower
reestimated rate of return thaa expected at appraisal (12% as compared to a
22% appraisal estimate) because of higher costs than anticipated.
The institution-building components of the project were not fully
successful. The road maintenance component was not given the attention it
deserved by the Government, which was busy tackling problems in its road
construction program. The port financial performance was below target.
While studies related to institutional and financial reform in the port
subsector were completed successfully, the recovmendations have not been
fully implemented. Future projects should use the progress made under this
project as a stepping-stone to full implementation of these reforms.



PERU
LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT - (Loan 1196-n.)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
-. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Peru's topographical, geological and climatic cond.'tions make the
provision of transport facilities extremely difficult. The transport net-
work reflects these difficulties and has shaped the country's geographic
development accordingly.  In the nineteentb century, several isolated
railways were built by private interests to connect mining areas in the
Sierra with coastal ports. Even today, railways and ports are highly
specialized and operate mainly as transport systems for the export of
minerals. Highways, coastal and river navigation and, much more recently,
civil aviation have played a more important role in integrating the country,
but the lack of an adequate transport network remains one of the most
difficult problems confronting Peru.
1.02      The highway network totals close to 64,500 km of which about 7,000
km are paved and 12,600 km have gravel surfacing. Road development has,
since 1970, been concentrated on pavti- and improving some of the more
heavily used roads and gradually extending the system. The backbone of the
Peruvian road network is the Pan-American Highway, an all-weather asphalt
:-oad 2,675 km long, running the entire length of the country along the coast
(MAP IBRD 11304 (PCR)). The highway system is still in a very early stage
of development, and the few roads connecting the coast with inland areas are
generally low standard, unpaved and sometimes, particularly in the Central
Andes and Selva regions, little more than rudimentary dry weather tracks.
The importance for the country's economic integration of the major road
connection from the coast to the inland areas, and the Amazon basin
navigable river network, can scarcely be exaggerated. This road, some 800
km in length, is the Central Highway, which starts from Lima, crosses the
highest range of the Andes to La Oroya, continues across a high plateau and
other mountain ranges, and eventually emerges from the Andean foothills to
reach Pucallpa on the headwaters of the Amazon river system. The main
elements of the project reviewed in this report consisted of paving the
section of. the Central Highway between La Oroya and Huanuco, rehabilitating
a paved section between San Mateo and Morococha, and improving the river
ports at Iquitos, Pucallpa and Yurimaguas.
1.03      The Bank has been closely involved with the highway subsector in
Peru since 1955. Highway development has to date been' promoted by eight
loans totalling US$185.5 million. Five of these loans (Loans 271-PE,
US$5.5 million, 425-PE, US$33 million, 1025-PE, JSA26 million, 1196-PE,
US$76 million and US$93 million, 2091-PE) have supported construction and
improvement of different sections of the Central Highway. All the loans
have helped-Lo finance feasibility studies and detailed engineering designs,
as well as providing for studies, technical assistance and equipment with
the objective of increasing efficiency in the highway subsector.



-2-
II. PROJECT PREPARATION, APPRAISAL AMiD NEGOTIATIONS
2.01      A Bank transport sector missioa visited Peru In September-October
1972 to update information on the sector and to review Government strategy
for development of the transport system. The content of the proposed
project was based on the findings of that mission.
2.02      Previous Bank loans in 1960 and 1965 had each financed the cons-
tructlon of sections of the Lima-La Oroya-Pucallpa road.  During implementa-
tion of the Oroya-Aguaytia Road Project (Loan 425-PE, 196X), extraordinarily
difficult geological and climatic conditions caused large cost overruns, and
the Borrower and the Bank agreed in 1969 to reduce the scope of the original
project to match available funds. These works were divided tnto three
phases:
Phase I:          works to gravel standard under Loan 425--PE;
Phase II:         paving of the Huanuco-Aguaytia and resealing of the
Neshuya-Pucallpa sections under the Loan 1025-PE
(1974); and
Phase III:        paving of the La Oroya-Huanuco and Aguaytia-Neshuya
sections and rehabilitation of the San
1Mateo-Morococha sections under the Lima-Amazon
Transport Corridor Project (Loan 1196-PE).
2.03      Under Loan 1196-PE, in addition to these main road improvements
(about 384 km), 110 km of feeeer roads leading into the corridor were to be
constnucted, road maintenance equipment purchased and consultants engaged
for construction supervision.
2.04      The project also included complementary construction of port
facilities in the river ports of Pucallpa and Yurimaguas, the expansion of
the port of Iquitos and purchase of port cargo-handling equipment,
improvement of street access to the port, and procurement of hydrological
craft and equipment to establish a number of measuring stations in the
Amazon River system. Financing was provided for consulting services, the
preparation of feasibility studies and detailed engineering of transport
facilities which could form the basis for future projects, and a regional
development study in the Selva Central area.
2.05      The total project cost, including contingencies, was estimated at
US$128.7 million equivalent. The proposed loan would finance an estimated
foreign exchange component of US$69.4 million (54%). The remaining costs
were to be met by the Government. The proposed loan also included some
retroactive financing of studies required to complete the preparation of the
project and US$7.1 million to cover interest during construction (Table 1).
2.06      Execution of the project was expected to take about four
years. Responsibility for the road component was placed under the General
Directorate of Land Transport (GDLT). The General Directorate of Water
Transport (GDWT) was responsible for port construction and improvement.
Both Directorates belong to the MTC. After construction, road maintenance
would be done by GDLT, but river port maintenance and operation were to be



-3-
carried out by Empresa Nacional de Puertos (ENAPU), an autonomous agency
reporting to the NTC. For this reason, in addition to the Loan Agreement
with the Government, there was a Project Agreement wlth ENAPU. Administra-
tive and organizational problems in both directorates required the appoint-
ment of a special coordinator to ensure -the efficient execution of this
project.
2.07      The project was the thirte-.th Bank transport project in Peru.  It
was appraised in May/June 1974, and subsequent to completion of the
complementary studies recommended by the appraisal mission, was negotiated
in Washington, D.C. on June 9-13, 1975. A loan of US$76.5 million was
approved on December 30, 1975, was signed on May 27, 1976 and became
effective on August 18, 1976.  The original closing date was December 31,
1980.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.01      The principal points affecting project implementation are treated
In this report under four main subheadings (i) highway construction and con-
struction supervision, (ii) highway maintenance equipment and technical
assistance; (iii) river port construction and hydrological equipment; and
(iv) other consulting services and studies. Since the scope of the work to
have been executed under (i), (ii) and (iv) above was markedly affected by
the 1978-1979 reformulation of the project, at a time when work had barely
started, the reformulation is treated as a preface to the implementation
history.
A.  Reformulation of the Scope of the Project
3.02      The start of road work contracts financed under Loan 1025-PE was
barely startiog when the project was appraised. Work on Loan 1025-PE was
delayed by about a year, and execution of the contracted works were
completed about two years later than scheduled, with a 76X increase in
cost. The delays and the cost increases affected the initiation of
roadworks under this project since MTC did not have the capacity or funds to
undertake additional work concurrently with the then ongoing works. Only
the port element made any progress. Not until mid-1978 was the first
roadwork, the 40 km San Mateo - Morococha road section, contracted, by which
time the need to reformulate the project had already become apparent and
discussions with the Government were underway.
3.03      The 1978 investment budget was insufficient to finance local
counterpart costs for more than a limited portion of project's unstarted
roadworks, with little prospect of increasing investment budget levels in
the following few years. Under these conditions it was estimated that the
project roadworks would not be completed before 1985. Road maintenance was
also seriously under-budgeted and needed first call on any additional funds
which might become available. It was, in consequence, agreed with NTC and
the Government that the scope of road improvement would be reduced by
dropping the lowest priority road section and that funds thua released would
be used to provide interim support for road maintenance (especially with
regard to equipment) as well as covering the increased costs (due to
inflation) of the construction of the remaining civil works.  In addition,



-4-
as a step towards eventually preparing another project for financing by the
Bank, which would provide more extensive support for road maintenance, the
preparation of a nationwide study of road rehabilitation needs and provision
of technical assistance to MTC's Equipment Service (SEM).  The specifics of
the reformulation and actions required of MTC and the Government are listed
below, d comparison of estimated costs of the project as appraised and as
redefined is shown in Table 1.
B.   Reformulated Project Components and Required Actions
(i) Roads
3.04      The reduced construction component of the project required post-
poning the upgrading of the Aguaytia-Neshuya road. Only reconstruction of
tbree decrepit single-lane bridges in this road were retained under the
reformulated project. The Borrower agreed to prepare and carry out a pro-
gram of routine and periodic maintenance of this road, pending its eventual
upgrading.  The road works that remained ir the project after reformulation
were: gi) rehabilitation and strengthening of San Mateo-Morococha road; (ii)
improvement of La Oroya-Cerro de Pasco-Huanuco road; (iii) construction of
the Pucallpa port access and streets; and (iv) minimum essential
improvements of the feeder roads.
(ii) River Ports
3.05      The construction and Improvement of the river ports continued
under the project with Increased costs to be covered by part of the funds
made available by the elimination of the Neshuya-Aguaytia road component.
(iii) Road Maintenance Program
3.06      With the exception of supporting cost increases in remaining civil
work' and the costs of additional studies (para 3.07), the funds released by
the reformulation of the project were to be dedicated to support the road
maintenance program for the years 1979-1982, which had been prepared under
the two previous highway projects. This program contained specific measures
to strengchen the management practices of MTC and SEM; and en estimate of
funds needed to provide SEM with an adequate budget to cover the costs of
operation, maintenance and repair of a balanced equipment fleet, and to
carry out the Road Maintenance Program. Under the reformulated project, key
improvements necessary to strengthen maintenance and equipment management
and to assure the availability of resources needed for the program, were
confirmed. They included, in particular:
(a) Equipment and spare parts. The Project included a program for
replacement and overhaul of existing equipment and the addition of
some new units needed for road maintenance. The reformulated
project also included the acquisition of spare parts necessary for
overhaul of salvageable units, for major repairs and to set up
stocks and tools and repairs to workshops.
(b) Budgetary and Ornanizational Requirements. Specific estimates of
recurrent budgetary requirements for the duration of the Road
Maintenance Program (1979-1982), including provisions for SEM's



-5-
materials, labor and overhead expenses were agreed with MTC and
the Government.  Agreement was also reached on measures to
adequately segregate, at the departmental level, maintenance
respcnsibilities from other MTC responsibllities. Strengthening
of central planning, programming and monitoring of NTC's
maintenance activities was also agreed.
(iv) Technical Assistance
3.07      The ref6rmulated project also provided technical assistance for
additional engineering studies and for strengthening SEM's management
practices. Specif$cally:
(a) the preparation of final engineering design for the Morococha-La
Oroyn road, an extension of the San Nateo Morococha road which had
deteriorated and which urgently needed reinforcement and
reconstruction;
(b) the identification and preparation of a nationwide road
rehabilitation program, for the period 1981-1985, which would
include the accumulated backlog of deferred periodic maintenance;
and
(c) the provision of consulting services to assist SEM in planning the
rehabilitation, maintenance and renewal of its equipment fleet, as
well as organizing the warehousing of spare parts stocks, and
improving Its accounting and equipment leasing systems.
C. Project ESxecution History
3.08       Execution of the project after the 1978 reformulation was
affected by three significant events:
(a) two changes in MTC's top management; the first in July 1979 when
the Minister was replaced, followed in a few months by the
resignation of the vice-minister; the second a year later when
national elections returned a new government to power. In each
case the changes caused delays in the start of contracts;
(b) the floating of the Peruvien "Sol de Oro" in the last quarter of
1978, which resulted in rapid devaluation and inflation, for which
provision had not been made under the ongoing contracts. This, at
a later date (1980-81) was aggravated by.overvaluation of the sol
which led to artificially high construction prices, in dollar
terms, which in turn affected decisions regarding the sufficiency
of loan funds; and
(c)  severe financial problems and inability of MTC to meet payments
due to its contractors, starting in mid-1982, as a result of
financial mismanagement and overspending of its budget during the
first half of CY82.



-6-
(i) Highway Construction and Supervision
3.09      The following paragraphs provide a summary of the timing and dura-
tion of contract execution, the problems encountered and the factors which
affected contract costs.
(a) San Mateo-Morococha Road
3.10      The first roadwork to be contracted in September, 1978 was 40
kilometers of pavement reconstruction on the San Mateo-Morococha section of
the Central Highway. The section includes the highpoint of the road
(elevation 4,843 m) at the Ticlio pass. A joint venture of international
and local consultants was selected in November 1976 and contracted in May
1977 to update the design of the road (Phase I) and supervise construction
(Phase II). The engineering and design update focussed, in particular, on
the reasons why existing pavement had suffered rapid deterioration and on
providing in the design of the new pavement structure for the almost daily
freeze and thaw conditions in the area. The time allowed to the consultant
for the update, as well as the budget, were Insufficient to allow for as
painstaking geotechnical and soils studies as are needed in the difficult
conditions which can occur in the high Andes. Inadequate provision for
subterranean water conditions along 6 km of the highest sections of the road
certainly contributed to the failure of pavement, that to date has not been
successfully repaired. In addition, the time allowed to resurvey the road
was not provided for. The updated design was made on existing plans which
later frequently proved to be inaccurate. For paving work this normally
would not have been of major importance, but when cost increases required an
addition In the contract ceiling amount, Peruvian Government requirements
necessitated considerable additional survey work to accurately locate both
new and existing road elements. This led to delay in obtaining an
authorized contract Increase, which also delayed work.
3.11      Inoitations to bid for the road reconstruction work were published
in April 1978, the award was made in August 1978 and the contract signed in
September 1978.  Work which officially started in November 1978 was
scheduled to be finished by June 1980. The completion date was later
extended to January 1981.
3.12      The main problems which arose during construction came late In the
course of this contract. In late 1979 two problems developed on the upper
reaches of the road: (i) groundwater seepage from the road bed and
sideslopes required the addition of permeable rock fill under the subbase;
and (ii) low temperatures, frequent temperature changes and bad weather
slowed paving operations. When work should have resumed after the 1980
rainy season, the contractor put forward a proposal to change the pavement
to Portland Cement Concrete and delayed remobilization for paving until
July/August when MTC decided in favor of the Consultant's recommendation to
complete the bituminous pavement. Only one of the two asphalt finishers,
however, returned to the project in sound operating condition, causing
jointing problems at-the center line of the road. Meanwhile, the only
borrow pit for base material on the project, was running out of suitable
material. Mechanical stabilization of base material, failed to keep up with
rate at which pit and run material was changing, and about 4 km of
sub-standard base was placed. The first course of pavement constructed on



-7-
this base soon failed under traffic. An improved base-mix was used between
Morococha and Abra Anticona, which performed better, while the failed base
was re-excavated, and additional crushed stone was added prior to
recompaction. However, too much time had been lost to complete paving work
In 1980 before the start of the wet season. About 4.5 km remained to be
paved.
3.13      MTC informed the Bank in December 1980, that with the concurrence
of both the contractor and the consultant, the contract would be terminated,
to avoid standby costs, and that the 4,5 km would be completed by force
account in 1981. MTC also failed to complete construction however. MTC'e
efforts were stopped by diversion of personnel and equipment to cope wlth
serious slide damage along the same highway closer to Lima. The slides were
triggered by unusually heavy rains on the western slopes of the mountain
range but once the equipment was removed, MTC's efforts were never
restarted. The road section remains passable but in poor condition.
3.14      The supervison of this contract was not entirely satisfactory.
The consultant's contract contained no provision for cost escalation since
the Sol exchange rate, at the time, was officially controlled and the
Inflation rate was lower. When the Sol exchange control was lifted, in the
fall of 1977, rapid devaluation and high inflation ensued. MTC was a long
time finding any mechanism to increase payments to the consultant, In
consequence project supervision staff was kept minimal and even with
adjustmeuts the consultant's remuneration remained low. MTC's management of
the consultants also was generally negative in nature with too much effort
devoted to establishing fault on the part of the firms and/or contractor,
and too little effort in helping solve the technical problems.
(b) Huacamayo, Huipoca and Chio Bridges
3.15      The next work to be contracted was the replacement of the three
old bridges on the Aguaytia-Nashuya road. In January 1979 the Bank agreed
to direct contracting of these structures with the contractor who was still
working near Aguaytia on the last road contract financed under the preceding
loan (1025-PE). The negotiated prices were reviewed by comparison with
prices on similar bridges constructed as part of the improvement of the
Huanuco to Aguaytia road section, and found to be satisfactory.
3.16      The bridge construction contracts were signed in February 1979.
Construction proceeded on schedule and work was completed by September
1979. Contracts for the bridge approaches were signed in August 1979 and
work was concluded by the end of September. Supervision was performed by
MTC departmental staff.
3.17      The only problem in connection with the bridge replacement
occurred after construction when erosion due to rainfall runoff began to eat
away the appproach fills behind some of the abutment winpgalls and
threatened to encroach on the paved roadway. In spite of a request by a
Bank mission for corrective measures, no action was taken by MTC. On a
second visit while passing the site, the Bank mission was told that the
needed repairs were no longer MTC's responsibility since a recent
reorganization had decentralized maintenance responsibility and the road had
passed to the jurisdiction of ORDELORETO. The contractor undertook the
repair on his own account.



-8-
(c) Pucallpa Streets
3.18      A design for street improvements in the town of Pucallpa,
including the proposed ring road for heavy traffic to the port area, was
prepared in early 1977, by a local consultant to the Ministry of Housing. A
Bank mission reviewed the design In Peru in July 1977, found it far too
costly and requested MTC to review the proposed standards. No further work
on the project was undertaken for a period of about one year while MTC's
attention was focussed on problems related to ongoing works and other
project components. In November 1978 a revised desigu was reviewed in the
field and again a number of modifications were requested by the Bank as well
as a thorough review of the proposed drainage provisions.
3.19      In early 1979, MTC requested, and the Bank agreed, to the work
being performed by force account, since the Ministry of Housing was
simultaneously starting a program of urban improvements (including a water
distribution system and sanitary sewers) which could give rise to delays of
a contract for pavement construction. As part of the agreement, MTC engaged
a supervising consultant for quality control and certification of work
performed. Payment was based on established unit prices which were reviewed
by the consultant.
3.20      Actual work did not start until November 1979.  The project
duration had been estimated at 12 months, but actually lasted two years and
three months. The major cause of delay was in obtaining roadway with
utility installation completed and therefore in condition to be paved. Work
was completely halted, several times, for lengthy periods. Bank missions
served to promote contacts between the ministers of MTC and Housing, so as
to obtain some cooperation and coordination between work being performed.
3.21      The local consultant, supervising the works, performed well but
was inadequately supported by MTC. MTC support was largely delegated to the
departmental engineer who had no authority over the activities or priorities
assigned by Ministry of Housing work supervisors. MTC and the Ministry of
Housing never did succeed in defining and establishing a practical system of
coordination at the field level or some other subordinate level in the two
Ministries.
(d) La Oroya - Huanuco Road
3.22      The major portion of the civil works retained in the reformulated
project consisted of completing and paving the La Oroya to Huanuco section
(240 km) of the Central Highway. The original detailed engineering for this
road had been prepared in the early 1960's and most of the road platform had
been constructed under a previous Bank financed project (Loan 425-PE).
3.23      Selection of consultants to update detailed engineering and
thereafter supervise construction for both this section of road and for the
Aguaytia to Neshuya road section was started in 1977 (pre-reformulation).
Proposals were received from six international/national consulting
engineering consortiums in Jv'y 1977. MTC evaluated the proposals, made
public the results of the evaluation, then disqualified the selected
consortium on an alleged technicality. The disqualified consortium began
seeking a legal injunction. MTC revised its position and annulled the



-9-
proceedings on the grounds of an irregularity in the request for proposals.
The Bank expressed its concern regarding the delay which was inevitably
resulting from this process and its effect on final construction costs in
view of the accelerating rate of inflation in Peru.
3.24      Revised versions of requests for proposals and terms of reference
were sent to the Bank in February 1978. Bank comments regarding terms of
reference were given to MTC's chief of design in March 1978, after a joint
field inspection. These stressed the need for greater emphasis on
geotechnical, soils and drainage aspects to avoid construction problems
which had arisen under the previous project. The timing for contracting
consultants remained uncertain while the project was being reformulated.
3.25      After the reformulation in 1979, MTC proposed that rather than
requesting new proposals, the contracts be negotiated with the same
consortium of international and local consultants who were completing
supervision of work under the previous loan and with a group of local
consultants who had all had previous supervisory experience on
internationally financed roadworks. The Bank agreed to this proposal and
two contracts were negotiated.
3.26      The period allowed for design review was again too short even
though at the insistence of the Bank it was lengthened from 3 to 5 months.
Problems arose when the international/national consortium began proposing
extensive construction of tunnel-shelters designed to pass mud flows
(huaycos) over the tunnels so as to avoid road blockage when these phenomena
occurred. These and numerous additional bridges were estimated to almost
double the resulting cost of construction and could not be justified at the
level of traffic using the roads, completely disregarding recommendations
for less costly solutions prepared as part of a Geotechnical Study, financed
under the previous loans. MTC's engineering department, however, supported
the consultant's proposal. The Bank insisted that the original design
concepts be retained. MTC senior engineers reviewed the situation and
reduced the tunnel and bridge sites to four. The Bank agreed to finance
only one tunnel as a pilot model to determine how effectively they would
perform and to see what difficulties might be encountered. TIhe tunnel
actually has performed well but was lengthened to twice the original length
designed.
3.27      The start of prequalification of contractors was also subject to
lengthy delays due to a requirement in Peruvian regulations governing
civil works contracting which required international firms to joint venture
with local firms or sub-contract at least 51% of the contracted work to
Peruvian firms. Since this requirement had been introduced after the date
of the loan agreement, MTC legal advisors said that it overruled the
provisions of the loan agreement. Discussions on this matter and a search
for a solution lasted throughout 1978. It was eventually decided to issue
the requested prequalification internationally without stipulating this
condition, with the Ministry of Economy and Finance engaging to support MTC
In obtaining an exception to the regulation, should qualified foreign firms
present themselves, unassociated. Invitations to prequalify were issued in
June 1979. Only one foreign firm expressed interest and presented their
documents in joint venture with their own Peruvian subsidiary. Ten groups
of associated contractors were prequalified by the end of July 1978.



- 10 -
3.28      Bids were invited on four lots in October 1979.  Awards were made
to low bidders in January 1980 but the signing of the contracts were delayed
until April 1980 by an Internal investigation and review ordered by the new
Minister, which eventually confirmed that the bidding and evaluation
procedures were in order.  Notice to proceed was given in May 1980.  Bids on
the remaining two lots (V ald VI) were invited as soon as the review of the
earlier bid awards had been concluded, and awards on these lots were made in
October 1980 with notice to proceed being given in the same month (Lot V)
and in mid-September (Lot VI).
3.29      A number of problems arose during construction due to (a)
technical difficulties related to site conditions and high altitude (about
75 km of the road runs at elevations of over 4,000 meters above sea level);
(b) design defects; (c) failures in contract management and supervision; and
(d) lack of timely payments to the contractors. The main problems are
summarized, by contract, below. Further details are given in Annex 1.
3.30      Problems encountered on Lots I, II and V were relatively minor.
Delays were mainly attributed to design deficiencies, resulting in changes
during construction. Lots III, IV and VI were more problematic, and in fact
the later two are still not completed.
3.31      Lot III ran into serious technical problems resulting in failure
of the initial sections paved. This failure was attributed to deficient
design and quality of work, and insufficient control by the contractor and
supervisor. The contract experienced considerable delays as the problem was
debated between MTC, the supervisory consultant and the contractor. The
Bank responded by twice sending a pavement specialist to analyze the
problem. Nevertheless, agreement was not reached on how to proceed until
July 1982. Once the work was reinitiated, it proceeded well, and the
revised pavement mix design resulted in good quality pavement. This Lot was
complete seven months behind schedule.
3.32      Work on Lot IV was started in May 1980 and was incomplete as of
February 1985, when the Loan closed. Work on this section progressed well
until mid-1981. Then work was stopped until a pavement solution was found
for Lot III, and never restarted at full rate. The contractor blamed the
poor progress in delays in receiving from MTC technical solutions for
problems which arose and arrears in payment by MTC, including compensation
for the time lost when paving was halted. The problem was exacerbated by
the fact that the contractor's bid prices had been low as the job had been
bid when work was scarce. The contractor's work programming was poor and
insufficient personnel were assigned. Then in 1981, many new road projects
were initiated and the contractor received more lucrative contracts
elsewhere. By mid-1982, MTC began to have trouble making payments, the
contractors on this and other jobs exhausted their credit. The contract
disputes led to eventual paralysis of work on this lot. In 1983 a solution
was found and work resumed. However, payments continued to be delayed and
the work progressed only sporadically. By February 1985 all but 2 km of the
road was completed. The remaining works ar- to be completed by force
account.
3.33      Lot VI experienced difficulties similar to those experienced under
the other contracts. Problems were initially linked to slow mobilization on
the part of the contractor, and then to MTC's financial difficulties which



- 11 -
resulted in payment delays. By the end of 1983 the eontract was only 80%
complete, and virtually no progress has been made since then. Work stopped
completely in December 1984 due to a shortage of funds. The remaining works
(estimated at about US$1.5 million) may be included under a revised Loan
2091-PE. This revision Is currently under discussion between the Government
and the Bank.
(e) Construction Supervision
3.34      Supervision of construction of Lots I and II by the consortium of
local consulting firms, started weakly.  The firms eventually replaced the
director with one of the resident engineers and cooperation between the
contractors and consultants improved. With this, inspection and quality
control also improved as joint efforts were made to resolve problems.
3.35      On the other lots the inspection by the international/national
consortium was of mixed quality. Although the consortium was directed by
the team leader of the international firm, who had considerable previous
field experience on works financed under earlier Bank loans, the
organization which was adopted did not function well. The international
firm staffed the inspection for Lots V and VI, with each local firm staffing
one of the other projects. Back-up provided to the local firms was mainly
administrative. The lack of adequate materials control staff and facilities
on Lot III was never covered by the international firm, when their local
partner was unable to find suitably qualified staff who were willing to work
in the zone. On Lots V and VI, the first resident engineer used the
authority delegated to him to make changes up to 5% of contract value, to
order construction of additional retaining walls. Many of these had been
eliminated from the plans as a result of an inspection by a MTC commission
which reviewed the differences between the recommendations of the Geotechni-
cal study and the solutions proposed by the consultants. As a result, when
additional work was really needed later, his successor had difficulty in
obtaining timely approval of changes from MTC and eventually from the
Controller General's office, who have to approve increases of item over 10%
(no credit being allowed for reductions in other work items).
3.36      The relationships between MTC and their supervising consultants
were in general less than satisfactory. MTC appointed a field coordinator,
to work with the cot.sultants so as to avoid delays in making decisions which
had given trouble on previous loans. The objective had been to have a MTC
representative who could join with the supervising consultants and th'e
contractors in the process of resolving problems, and who could take
decisions and give approvals on the behalf of MTC. Unfortunately, the
engineer selected for this post did not make a constructive contribution.
(f) Feeder Roads
3.37      The two feeder roads under the project were never improved.  In
late 1981 a verification of the rate of cost escalation on the project
construction contracts was made in connection with the preparation of the
Eighth Highway Project (Loan 2091-PE). In US dollar terms prices had
escalated 30% in the previous 12 months. Even under an apparently
conservative assumption that the future rates of escalation would decrease,
it appeared that loan funds would barely suffice to continue participation



- 12 -
in the-ongoing contracts.  In consultation with MTC it was agreed that MTC
would improve the feeder roads using force account and its own funds,
leaving the loan funds for the payment of contracted works. As a result of
the ensuing financial crisis, MTC never started this work.
(iii) Highway Maintenance Equipment end Technical Assistance
(a) Procurement
3.38      Purchases of maintenance equipment, spare parts and workshop tools
were made under the project in four tranches.  The first purchase made in
August 1977 was in the amount of US$150,000 for spare parts for
dump-trucks. The second tranche was to cover procurement of 46 vehicles, 35
equipment units, and workshop tools. Bids were invited in October 1977,
received in December 1977 and the evaluation was completed in March 1978.
All bids were rejected for 5 types of vehicles, when 4 of the 5 dealers
failed to meet several legal/administrative bid requirements, and no awards
were made on 4 types of equipment due to insufficient or non-responsive
bids. The remaining equipment was awarded to nine suppliers for about $2.6
million. The bids for worlshop tools were also rejected as the proposals
were far too costly (about 30% in excess of estimated cost), generally
because the suppliers were quoting on substantially better tools than
required. The third tranche consisted of rebidding of items not awarded in
1978. Four suppliers were awarded contracts in the total amount of US$1.4
million, in April 1979. Workshop tools were also rebid and 6 contracts were
awarded in October 1980, in the total amount of US$675,000. A fourth
tranche of maintenance equipment was agreed with the Bank and bids were
invited in 1980 resulting in awards to two suppliers in December 1980, in
the amount of US$1.9 million.
3.39      Bids for Geotechnical equipment, after long delays due to the low
priority accorded to geotechnical work by MTC management, were taken in
1982.  All bids were rejected due to insufficient bids being received.  It
was agreed with the Bank to use international shopping which required a
special resolution from Government.  This was obtained in late 1982 but with
the heavy flooding in northern Peru in early 1983, all MTC's funds and
efforts were concentrated on the emergency requirements.  In late 1983, with
the loan closing date approaching the matter resurfaced. A legal opinion
was required as to the validity of the 1982 resolution in 1983. By the time
this was obtained, the fiscal year was over and no spending authority had
teen provided in the 1984 budget.
3.40      A final tl.-anche of spare part and workshop tool procurement also
fell victim to lack of spending authority. Bids were evaluated in December
1983 but MTC management elected to try to purchase vehicles rather than
spares with the small amount in the 1984 budget allocated to equipment.
Bids for additional workshop tools were received in October 1983 but had to
be rejected as none complied with the short delivery date allowed by NTC in
order to try to receive the tools before the loan closing date. It was then
proposed that funds from 1196-PE be used to finance spare parts and tools
bid under Loan 2091-PE which were essentially the same as those which were
to have been included In the final tranche of Loan 1196-PE. The loan was to
be extended to February 28, 1985 to allow for the time needed to receive
legislative approval to utilize funds from 1196-PE to finance items bid



- 13 -
under 2091-PE, for contraction of these items and delivery. By the time the
legislative approval was received and the Bank extension of the closing date
approved, it was too late to order the spare parts in the 1984 budget year.
As a result, the spare parts and workshop tools were not ordered. They will
be rebid and financed under 2091-PE.
(b) Equipmeut Overhaul
3.41      Lists of equipment selected for overhaul were reviewed by
technical assistance consultants to SEM and Bank consultants. The program
repaired and overhauled 43 units of equipment and 40 dump-trucks, but work
went slowly for lack of sufficient mechanics. Various measures were
discussed with MTC management regarding contracting additional mechanics but
there was a fear that disparity in pay between contracted mechanics and
SEM's mechstnics would lead to morale problems and loss of SEM staff.
3.42      The second phase of the overhaul program of another 55 units never
started due to spare parts acquisition being halted (3.50). In addition,
after the change in Government in 1980, a reorganization of MTC resulted in
disbandment of the equipment service with its role changed to a staff
function. Control of equipment and workshops was assigned to individual
departments. Central spare parts stocks were distributed to the departments
but no clear guidelines were formulated to clarify how the workshop system
would function or what level repairs can be undertaken in which
departments. Only 7 of the departmental workshops have space and facilities
for major repair.
(c) Technical Assistance
3.43      As part of the reformulation, technical assistance was provided to
SEM to help organize and control equipment overhaul, improve management and
accounting for spare parts procurement, storage and distribution, as well as
to improve management of the equipment fleet. An international consultant
was contracted and started work in July 1980. The technical assistance
lasted 18 months and produced a number of recommendations but made little
progress in having them implemented. In the latter six months internal
disagreements in the consulting firm led to removal of the project manager
and no suitable replacement was provided, prompting termination of the
contract in January 1982. It was agreed between MTC and the Bank that a new
firm would be contracted to assist with implementing recommended procedures
and adapting them to the revised organization, but although terms of
reference were agreed, there was no further action taken by MTC.
(ill) River Ports
3.44      The original completion date for the river ports was 1978.  The
works, however, did not get started until mid-1977, almost a year after lcan
effectiveness. Iquitos was the first port to be undertaken, but due to some
design changes for the floating dock, completion was postponed several
times. Another delaying factor was a large quantity of unsuitable material
which had to be removed before foundations fo- %.ie land-side installations
could be made. The work was finally Inaugurated in May 1980, but was not
formally taken over by ENAPU until much later due to a dispute concerning
extra costs and problems with the decking. Due to the high temperature in



- 14 -
this area, the original asphalt paving had to be substituted by timber
decking on the floating steel dock.  Additional portable conveyors and a
separate mooring buoy also provided for additional through-put capacity.
The final cost of work at this port was US$12.3 million which was 50%
greater than the appraisal estimate.
3.45      Conceptual design changes for Pucallpa and some design changes for
Yurimaguas also delayed the start of these ports until December 1979 and
November 1979 respectively. The design changes for Pucallpa essentially
concerned the access bridges and the number of pontoons in the dock which
initially was three and ultimately was increased to five. Despite this, the
lowest bid was only 5% above the engineers' estimate for Pucallpa. The
Naval Shipyard, SIMA, was subcontractor for all floating pontoons, the large
ones made in Iquitos and the smaller ones for Pucallpa brought in by road
from Lima. The work in the Pucallpa port was finished in March 1982 without
further major problems, but at much higher cost due to inflation. These
works cost a total of US$10.8 million, 157% and 93% greater than the
appraisal estimate.
3.46      The Yurimaguas floating dock was based on reconditioned surplus
pontoons from the previous dock in Iquitos. Unfortunately, the
reconditioning required more steel than expected and the lowest bid was 26%
higher than the consultant's estimate. In part, those bids also reflected
the perception of contractors that working at Yurimaguas was likely to be
more difficult and expensive due to its isolated location and lack of
facilities. The final cost (US$4.0 million) was 122% higher than the
appraisal estimates. The work was finished in March of 1981. Due to the
lack of equipment and administrative staff, actual operations did not start
until October 1981. Of concern is the fact that the port is isolated from
the main Huallaga river part of the year. The port was located on the quiet
tributary Paranapura instead of the Huallaga river since the fast-flowing
Huallaga would create hazards for mooring of river craft. Unfortunately, at
times a sandbar builds up by the Huallaga partly blocking the Paranapura-
Erosion on the Huallaga river bank is so rapid, however, that this prob: a
may be alleviated in a few years time. The problem is currently being
studied by MTC.
3.47      Concerning cargo handling and floating equipment, an inordinate
amount of time passed between Bank approval of awards and final procurement
due to MTC procurement procedures. In addition, for work boats, delays in
awards were so long that finally a new bidding had to be carried out after
major redesign of the boats, reducing cost from about US$229,000 to
US$89,000. Some of the hydrological equipment could not be purchased for
similar reasons. After much delay, cargo handling equipment was received
more or less in line with original cost estimates.
(iv) Consulting Services
3.48      In addition to construction supervision, this loan originally
included funds for several studies: Aguaytia-Neshuya detailed engineering; a
study of the strategy for coastal transport; Ambo-Huacho feasibility study;
Selva Central rural development study; a study of the investment planning
for ENAPU S.A.; and a feasibility study of six airports along the
Lima-Iquitos corridor. At the time of reformulation of the project, the



- 15 -
major additions were the road rehabilitation study and the technical
assistance to SEM. In addition, final design for the Morococha-La Oroya
road was included.
3.49      Of these various consulting services, the Aguaytia-Neshuya
detailed engineering was quickly finished. The feasibility study for the
Ambo-Huacho road was originally intended to be financed as part of this
loan. However, following a request by MTC to carry out the study with Its
own forces, the Bank agreed to make the funds, previously alloted for
financing of the study, available for financing of detailed engineering
instead. Similarly, the study of the feasibility of various alternatives of
coastal traffic was completed largely by MTC'a own staff. This Coastal
Corrido,r Study proceeded slowly with individual foreign consultants giving
some assistance.
3.50      The Regional Study of the Selva Central was carried out in several
stages. The prefeasibility stage was carried out largely by MTC staff. The
prefeasibility stage was completed in May 1980 and the feasibility stage was
largely completed in 1983. Five specialized consultants on the subjects of
soils, forestry, ecological Impact, airships and shallow river transport
were provided on short term basis. The river transport consultancy,
although selected, was never contracted due to administrative and financial
problems. The Regional Study of the Selva Central became a basis for
several projects to be financed by International lenders, including the
Bank, KfW, USAID and IDB.
3.51      The ENAPU study carried out by CENIP (para 6.01) faced no major
problems but has so far had limited impact. The airport feasibility study
was the foundation for the Aviation Development Project (Loan 1963-PE).
3.52      The road rehabilitation study did not start until November 1981
due to a lengthy process of preparing terms nf reference for a type of study
which was an entirely new concept to MTC. The delay was aggravated by the
change of Ministers in 1980. Prequalification of international/local
consultant joint ventures and selection of a firm took most of 1981. The
services were delayed when NTC decided to purchase special pavement testing
equipment rather than having the consultant do so, which resulted in
equipment not being available when needed (some never was purchased). The
consultant adapted his work program well and succeeded in introducing the
computer programs as well as other technical innovations.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND DISBURSEMENTS
4.01      A summary comparison between appraisal estimates and actual or
final estimated costs is shown in Tables I through 4, and is summarized
below. Table I shows the changes as a result of the 1978 reformulation of
the project; Tables 2 and 3 give details regarding the road component while
Table 4 gives details on the river port costs.



- 16 -
SAR         Actual Cost or        Actual as a
Road Construction            Estimate 1/  Current Estimate 2/  Percent of SAR
(US$ millIon) --(X-
San Mateo-Morococha              5.9               9.0                153
La Oroya-Huanuco                51.2              64.2                125
Pucallpa Streets                 3.2               2.1                 66
Feeder Roads                     2.0               0.0                  -
Aguaytia-Neshuya                29.7               0.6                  2
Road Maintenance Equipment       5.5               8.7                158
Consulting Services             11.3              11.0                 97
River Ports & Equipment         19.8              30.5                154
Total                       128.6             126.1                 98
1/ Including Price and Physical Contingencies.
-/ Excludes works dropped from the project.
4.02      Loan funds were reallocated twice, as follows:
Original              Reallocated
Loan Agreement     M 1~979    January 1981
(US$ thousands)
(1) Civil Works                       35,100         30,300          47,000
(2)  Road Equipment                    4,000          9,900          10,500
(3)  Soils Laboratory                                   200             300
(4) Cargo Handling Equipment           4,200          4,200           4,200
(5) Hydrological Equipment               500            500             600
(6)  Consulting Services               5,400          7,200           6,800
(7)  Interest                          7,100          7,100           7,100
(8)  Unallocated                      20,200         17,100               0
76,500         76,500          76,500
4.03      The loan closing date has been extended three times, first from
December 31, 1980 to December 31, 1982 and then to December 31, 1983. In
December 1984, US$3.2 was cancelled and the loan extended to February 28,
1985 to cover equipment and spare parts purchases. As of February 28, 1985,
US$70.8 million had been disbursed, or 93% of the original loan amount.
V P FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE PORT -COMPONENT
5.01    The Empresa Nacional de Puertos (ENAPU) is in charge of maintenance
and operations of existing facilities while the Direccion General de
Transporte Acuatico (DGTA) is responsible for port construction and
improvements. The project objectives regarding port financial policies went
beyond the three river ports and extended to the overall financial situation
of ENAPU.



- 17 -
5.02    There were three financial covenants in the Project Agreement:
(a)  ENAPU, by December 31, 1976, to revise, on the basis of an
ongoing costing study, its tariff structure so as to enable it
to earn an annual rate of return of at least 6%;
(b) Iquitos, to achieve a working ratio of 140 in 1976, 120 In 1977
and 100 in 1978, a~nd thereafter;
(c) the three project ports, as a whole, to achieve a working ratio
of 100 in 1979 and improve-thereafter.
None of the targets agreed upon have been met, and it is unlikely that the
conditions (b) and (c) will be met in the foreseable future. The following
paragraphs outline the financial performance of ENAPU as a whole and the
three project ports.
A.    ENAPU
5.03         ENAPU's financial position varies significantly from the
appraisal forecast, with shortfalls in the financial results experienced in
every year except 1979. The main reasons behind the shortfalls as compared
to appraisal expectations are (a) lower than expected port traffic; and (b)
inadequate tariff adjustments to offset the effects of inflation. Traffic
peaked in 1975, and then fell dramatically until 1980. Dry cargo fell by 40%
between 1975 and 1980, totalling only 58% of forecast levels by 1980. Liquid
cargo in that year reached only 44% of forecast levels. Traffic improved
after 1980, then fell again in 1983 (Table 5).
5.04         ENAPU'a failure to meet the financial targets set out at
appraisal was also due to the failure to make needed tariff adjustments in a
timely manner. The Bank relied on an UNDP advisor, at that time employed by
ENAPU, to improve the cost accounting system, and to relate more closely
costs and tariffs. Despite the Bank's insistence, proposals made by ENAPU to
adjust tariffs periodically in relation to the increase of expenditures
(resulting mainly from inflation) were not always approved by Government,
which seemed convinced that any significant increase in port charges,
particularly on cargo imports, would have an immediate effect on consumer
prices. Nor have efforts to relate tariffs more closely to costs been fully
successful.
5.05      The above factors are reflected in ENAPU's income statements for
the period 1975-80, given in Table 6. Except when tariffs were ddjusted, the
financial results were less favorable than anticipated. The operating and
working ratios targets were generally not met, and the rate of return target
was met only in 1979. In 1982 and 1983, ENAPU's financial position improved
somewhat. Table 7 shows ENAPU's balance sheets as of December 31, 1975-1983,
comparing forecast and actual figures. Notwithstanding its weak earnings'
position, ENAPU's financial situation is still basically sound.
5.06      In response to unclear port financial policies and in the unwieldy
relationship between Government and ENAPU (e.g., the separation of
re.ponsibility for construction and operations), it was agreed at loan
negotiations that a study would be carried out, not later than December 31,
1976, to determine the appropriate financial policies for ENAPU, including



- 18 -
payment of dividends to the Government, use of concession fees from private
ports aud servicing of debt incurred by Government for port construction.
The etudy was carried out by ENAPU and completed i. July 1978. No action on
the study was taken, and consequently the practical effect of the study has
so far been very limited. This ts regretable since ENAPU's Institutional
framework was amended in 1981 and the opportunity to streamline the financial
relationship between Government and ENAPU has been missed. By Legislative
Decree in 98 dated May 29, 1981, ENAPU became ENAPU-Peru, S.A., a Sociedad
Anonima, subjected to private corporate law, although fully Government owned
(para 6.02).
B.   PROJECT PORTS
5.07      Contrary to the overall trend affecting ENAPU over the period
1977-1983, traffic at Iquitos and Pucallpa have generally exceeded the
appraisal forecast; a comparison of appraisal projections and actual traffic
volumes is given in Table 8. ENAPU only started handling traffic at
Yurimaguas in late 1981, and has only kept sporadic tr&ffic statistics for
that port with only one full year of traffic statistics available.
5.08      Notwithstanding a favorable traffic trend, the financial results at
Iquitos and Pucallpa are most disappointing. Details of the income accounts
for the project ports are in Table 9. Section 3.03(a) of the Project
Agreement provides for Iquitos to acbieve a working ratio of 140 in 1976, 120
in 1977, and 100 in 1978 and thereafter.  Actual performance was
substantially worse than forecast, as shown below:
ACTUAL              1975    1976    1978    1979    1980    1982    1983
Working Ratio             164      -      443     579      578     357     172
Operating Ratio           176     428     502     635      714     441     205
For 1983, compliance with Section 3.03(a) of the Project Agreement would have
required a 70% increase in Iquitos' operating revenue. Such an increase
would have been unlikely as it conflicted with government policy of
assistance to the Selva Region.
5.09      The Project Agreement also provides for the three project ports, as
a whole, to achieve, as from 1979, a working ratio of 100, and improving
thereafter. Actual performance has been below appraisal expectations, and
if current trends continue, this target will not be met in the future.
5.10      At a management meeting preceeding loan negotiations, the financial
covenant to be applied to the project ports was discussed in detail. The
consensus was that, notwithstanding the Government's policy to subsidize
public services in the Selva Region, financial objectives should be set and
quantified. It was nevertheless accepted that such objectives would be lower
than those usually required for port operations by the Bank; hence, the
covenant was based on the working ratio. Actual results now show that,
although modest, the objectives were too ambitioQs, as they ran counter the
political determination to continue subsidizing the port services in the
Selva Region.



4-.
C.   AUDIT
5.11      Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement makes provision for ENAPU to
have Its accounts audited annually, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, by not later than four months after the end of each year. The accounts
for 1975, 1976 and 1977 were audited in a timely manner while there were
delays with accounts for 1978, 1979 and 1980.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOP1ENT
A.   Port Institutional Development
6.01    In 1968, with the abolishment of the National Port Authority, the
Government divided responsibilities in the port sub-sector; DGWT in MTC
became responsible for port planning, design and construction, while ENAPU
kept responsibility for port operations and maintenance. This division, a
common feature in the transport sector in Latin America, always raises a
problem of coordination. While accepting the institutional set-up, the Bank
felt that It would serve a useful purnose for the Government to study the
ways and means to increase the participation of ENAPU in port planning,
design, and construction. The Government agreed, and Section 4.07(a) of the
Loat Agreement made provision for:
(a) the carrying out of the study by June 30, 1976;
(b) exchange of views between the Government and the Bank on the
conclusions of the study; and
(e) the carrying out of a plan of action prepared on the basis of
such conclusions.
There was strong opposition to the study In some Government spheres and
delays were incurred. To strengthen the case and overcome resistance, the
Bank agreed to finance 100t of the cost of the study. After substantial
delay, the study was carried out in 1979 by CENIP (Centro Nacional de
Productividad). The study was of high professional quality; its main
conclusion was that ENAPU should be given direct responsibility for port
investment, while MTC should deal with policy issues, inter-sectoral
coordination and review of ENAPU's planning and implementation decisions. In
April 1980, the Bank informed the Government and ENAPU that it supported
CENIP's conclusions and requested their comments. This request has since
been repeatedly addressed to Government and ENAPU but to no avail; MTC is
awaiting ENAPU's comments and vice-versa. The issues are politically -
sensitive and none of the institutions involved wants to take a stand. It Is
obviously difficult for them to comment on proposals which may curtail their
functions and responsibilities.  No clear-cut decision has emerged so far
from the CENIP study.
6.02    By Legislative Decree of May 29, 1981, ENAPU became ENAFU-Peru, S.A.,
subject to private corporate law. The decree confirms the responsibilities
of ENAPU as being the administration, operationas, equipment and maintenance
of ports, but adds that ENAPU can undertake port construction, If so
authorized. This change, which is a timid implementation of the CENIP



- 20 -
study's conclusions, is encouraging but It requires to be better defined.
Indeed the new institutional set-up now provides for two organizations - MTC
and ENAPU - to construct ports, and unless their respective responshillity
is clearly set, confusion, and ensuing waste, is unavoidable.    Progress of
the project under review was already adversely affected by infrequent and
inadequate interaction between DOWT and ENAPU; the situation would be worse
should both organizations have overlapping respotsibiLity in port
construction.
6.03      Section 4.08 of the Loan Agreement made provision for the
Government to appoint, within MTC, a project coordinator to coordinate all
project activities. An office for coordination and supervision was
established with adequate secretarial staff; the project coordinator was
given high ranking administrative status. Five coordinators have been
successively appointed during project execution, but not always of adequate
professional level and their action has been for all practical purposes
limited to monitoring progress of the projects. Section 4.08(c) of the Loan
Agreement requires preparation of a report containing an evaluation of the
position of project coordinator and the need of such position for the
sufficient execution of the project. Such a report was completed but it did
not have any significant impact.
B.   Highway Maintenance
6.04      An important objective of the Lima-Amazon Corridor Project was to
continue the process of improving highway maintenance started under earlier
loans. The Loan Agreement contained specific covenants requiring the
Borrower to carry out a special nationwide road maintenance program based on
the recommendations of a consultant's study financed under the two previous
loans, including the prompt provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources required. Another covenant required the Borrower to prepare
and carry out a plan of action to revise existing practices regarding the
rental of maintenance equipment. The project reformulation expanded the
project's emphasis on improving road maintenance by including an equipment
overhaul and replacement program and specific actions to be taken to improve
management of maentenance activities (para 3.07).
6.05      The progress made in introducing improved maintenance management
and carrying out improved maintenance has been below expectations, limited by
the few staff available to work on introducing recommended procedural
improvements, Insufficient budget allocations and lack of serviceable
equipment. Only the first phase of the overhaul program was carried out.
Additional complications arose from frequent institutional chauges,
replacement or reassignment of staff trained In new procedures; attempted
decentralization without clear delineation of responsibilities and continuing
depletion of technical and managerial expertise due to low compensation
levels and uncertain career prospects. The dismantling of SEM in 1981 was a
regressive move rather than an advantage. At the same time, it must be noted
that the latter part of the project implementation period coincided with a
series of emergencies (flooding, landslides on major highways) which required
diverting scar-e human and financial resources from the implementation of the
planned maintenance program.



- 21 -
VII. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
A.   Road Component
7.01      The road component was justified at appraisal on the basis of
quantifiable benefits accruing to road users, primarily reduced vehicle
operating costs. The appraisal estimate of the economic rate of return
(ERR), not including time savings, was over 30% for the San Mateo-Morococha
road section, and 23% for the La Oroya-Huanuco road section. The estimated
ERR for the Pucallpa street improvements was 18%, and for the feeder roads
10-18%. Finally, the Aguaytia-Neshuya section had an estimated ERR of 9%.
During project reformulation, the scope of works on this latter section was
changed to provide only for construction of three critical bridges.
7.02      In the ex-post economic reevaluation, only vehicle operating costs
were considered. For those sections of the La Oroya-Huanuco road not yet
complete, it was assumed that these would be finished by end 1985. On the
San Mateo-Morococha road, some 4.5 km of road which was never properly
finished was considered to be in poor condition both with and without the
project (para 3.13). Average traffic on most of the road sections is lower
than projected at appraisal, due to the difficult economic situation which
Peru has faced since 1977 (Table 10). For the purposes of the reevaluation,
a lower rate of traffic growth was assumed (4% p.a.) as compared to appraisal
estimates (6-8.5% p.a.). In the reevaluation, the real cost increases caused
by construction delays and design changes were compensated by the fact that
the latest available vehicle operating costs estimates for Peru are higher In
real terms than the appraisal estimates (Table 11). The estimated ex-post
economic rates of return for the road components are 35% for the San Mateo
Morococha road, 18% for the La Oroya-Ruanuco road and 24% for the Pucallpa
street improvements (Table 12).
B. River Ports
7.03      At appraisal, the main benefits included In the economic analysis
of the river ports were (a) reductions in shipping costs because of better
utilization of barges and other river craft; (b) reduced labor costs; and (c)
reductions in cargo damages. The appraisal estimated ERRs were 24% for
Iquitos and Pucallpa and 17% for Yurimaguas. These same types of benefits
were considered In the ex-post evaluation. Port traffic was assumed to grow
at 6X p.a., as compared to appraisal estimate of 6.4-7.2% p.a.  While still
acceptable, the ex-post economic rates of return for the Pucallpa and Iquitos
Ports are at 13% and 12%, respectively, below appraisal estimates, despite
the fact that traffic has generally met appraisal expectations (Table 8).
The lower than expected results are attributed to higher real costs of these
works. Traffic at the Yurimaguas port, based on very weak data base (only
one full year of statistics are available) appears to be below appraisal
estimates. This, combined with real cost increases, led to shortfalls at
that port, with an ex-post ERR of only 6%. Nevertheless, because the
Yurimaguas port represents only 14% of total river port costs (and 3% of
total project costs) the overall port ex-post ERR is still an acceptable 12%
(Table 12).
7.04      With the high proportion of buses and particularly trucks on the
project roads and the competitive nature of transport industry, it is likely



-22-
that the transport cost savings will be reasonably well distributed between
truck and bus operations on one hand and the travellers and shippers on the
other. Since this Central Highway is one of the main transport links of the
country, transport cost reduction and reduction of road closures is lmportant
for consumer prices for certain commodities in Lima as well as for the
agricultural development of the Eastern Piedmont and the large areas served
by the Amazon River system through Pucallpa.
VIII. ROLE OF THE BANK
8.01      The Bank made important contributions in the identification and
preparation of this project, advocating the merger of what essentially
started as separate projects in two different subsectors. The fact that
virtually all subsectors, except railways, were influenced by the project led
to better coordination of transport investment. The multi-modal nature of
the project, along with difficulties resulting from weak MTC management,
inadequate counterpart funds and technical problems, required, however, a
major supervision effort over some seven years, with an average of 100
staffdays per year.
8.02      The Bank responded to the difficult implementation problems with
flexibility, as evidenced by the reformulation of the project in 1979. The
Bank was also instrumental in expanding the project's focus with regard to
road maintenance. Even though that aspect of the project ultimately proved
to be less successful than had been anticipated, the emphasis on road
maintenance was, and continues to be, of high priority in the sector.
8.03      In its supervision of the project, the Bank took an active interest
in assisting MTC solve the numerous technical problems encountered. For
example, the Bank engaged pavement specialists to assist in the problems
which arose in the La Oroya-Huanuco road. Even though the Bank's advice was
not always acted upon in a timely manner, the Bank's intervention was
ultimately useful. The Bank also persisted in urging the adaptation of more
flexible and less costly designs in Peru's geologically unstable areas. In
addition, the Bank played a useful role in breaking impasses in project
execution by working with the highest levels in MTC and other government
entities to simplify extremely complex bureaucratic procedures.
8.04      Although Bank supervision of the institution-building aspects of
the project was also relatively intense, the impact of Bank dialogue on these
issues was below target, particularly with regard to development of road
maintenance, and strengthening of ENAPU's role in port infrastructure
planning.  In this regard, it appears that the weakness of these i=qtitutions
was underestimated.
IX. CONCLUSIONS
A.   Achievement of Project Objectives
9.01      This project, despite the considerable difficulties in its
implementation, represents an important contribution to the provision of
access from the coastal region to the Central mountains and finally to the



- 23 -
large tropical rain forest areas of Peru. The project suffered from its
Inception from lack of counterpart funds and implementation capacity,
exacerbated by the extremely difficult economic conditions experienced over
the course of the project. Nevertheless, the ex-post economic evaluation of
the project indicates that the project was justified, even taking into
account the long implementation delays and cost increases. The road
component has an estimated ex-post economic rate of return of 20% and the
port component 12%.
9.02      The project has been less successful in achieving its institution-
building objectives. With regards to port issues, the studies which were to
lead to the rationalization of responsibilities for port planning and
construction and of ENAPU's financial policies were successfully completed.
However, the recommendations of the studies were only partially implemented.
While the 1981 changes on ENAPU's institutional framework set the stage for a
more rational approach to port planning and operations, an unwieldy
relationship between ENAPU and MTC persists. In the road component, progress
in strengthening road maintenance under the project was disappointing. The
road maintenance program suffered from inadequate staffing, frequent
institutional and personnel changes, and insufficient budget authorizations.
Indeed, MTC's management capacity overall declined over the course of the
project as declining real compensation levels resulted in high level
technical staff leaving MTC. It should be noted that these largely exogenous
problems were common to all components of the project.
9.03      The financial performance of the port project was also below
target, both in terms of ENAPU's financial results and those of the project
ports. The shortfall in ENAPU's performance was caused in part by traffic
shortfalls which would have been difficult to foresee at appraisal, but also
was due to failure to raise tariffs in a timely manner. In retrospect, the
Bank's ability to engage in constructive dialogue through this project
regarding ENAPU's performance was limited by the fact that ENAPU was not the
borrower, and that the project ports were, from ENAPUt's perspective, a fairly
minor part of its operations. With regard to the project ports, the Bank was
aware of, but probably underestimated, the Government's resistance to raising
tariffs at the project ports in order to meet the financial targets.
9.04      Under the project, studies regarding infrastructure requirements
were successfully completed. One has led to a Bank rural development project
and a second, on road rehabilitation, will form the basis for the next roads
project.
Lessons
9.05      Several lessons can be drawn from this project.  These have already
been useful for the design and implementation of the Eighth Highway Project,
Loan 2091-PE. These are:
(a) institutional capacity: MTC's capacity (financial, technical,
managerial) to implement the project, particularly the road
component, should have been more carefully assessed. Given the
difficult experience in earlier projects on the Central Highway,
this project should have been delayed until works under Loan
1025-PE were well underway. Future Bank projects have, and should



- 24 -
continue to have as a primary objective, institutional and
compensation reform which is essential if MTC Is to overcome the
decline in capacity experienced over the course of the project;
(b)  Status of Proje:t Preparation.  Even though the final engineering
for the road components had been completed before project
appraisal, it had to be updated. Given the known techuieal
difficulties involved in the construction of the Central Highway,
this updating should have been completed prior to loan approval, in
liue with current practice. Final engineering should also have
been completed for the ports prior to loan approval. The tlme
allowed for updating of the studies was insufficient, and this led
to design deficiencies. These factors contributed to time and cost
overruns and eventually to the contract disputes; and
(c) Port Institutional and Financial Improvements foreseen under the
project may not have been realistic, given the relatively minor
role played by ENAPU. While increasing ENAPU's role would most
likely not have been possible at the time, the 1981 institutlonal
reforms will make it possible for ENAPU to be a borrower in future
port projects, thereby greatly increasing the opportunity to engage
in a constructive dialogue with it on port issues.



PEBU
PROJECT coPLIo RBEPOB
LIMA-A0AZO1   TRANSPORT CORRID0R PROJECT (LOAN 1196-PE)
Eatimted Costs of the ProJect
(US5 millions)
erolect as Appraised I1975)                  Reformulated Project (1979)
Local       For.    Total         Part       Local       For.      Total       Part        S
A. Civil Works
(i) Improvemenct of the Lima Pucallpa Road
fIncludiag Pucailpa streets loading to the port)                  31.1       28.4        59.5       28.4       23.0       21.0        44.0       21.0       48
(ii)  Feeder road improvements                                            1.1         1.2        2.3        1.2        0.8         0.7        1.5        0.7       48
(iii) Comstructiom: Pucallpa and lurimaguas Ports                         2.2         2.0        4.2        2.0        2.9         2.8        5.7        2.8       49
(iv)  Improvement:.Iqnitos Port                                           2.1         3.5        5.6        3.5        6.2         5.8       12.0        5.8       48
Sub-Total-Civil Works                               36.5       35.1      lF           35.6  3.   3 2.9      30.        63.2        3.3        48
B. Equipment
(i)   Road maintenance equipment and spare parts                          0.4         4.0       4.4         4.0         1.0        9.9       10.9        9.9       91
(i-a) Soils exploration: laboratory equipment                              -           .         -           -          -          0.2        0.2        0.2       100
(ii)  Cargo handling. fire fighting and dredging equipment                 -          4.2       4.2         4.2         _          4.2        4.2        4.2       100
(iii) Hydrological equipment t                                                       0.5        0.5         0.5         -          0.5        0.5        0.5       100
Sub-Total - Equipment                                  4        8.7       9.1          8.7        1.0       14.8       15.8        14.8       94
C. Consulting Services
(1)   Feasibility study and engineering of Neshuys to
Aguaytia Road (115 oss)                                            0.2         0.3       0.5         0.3        0.1          -         0.1         -         0
(1i)  Supervision of items A(i) and (ii) above                             1.5        1.8       3.3         1.8         1.7        1.9        3.6        1.9        53
(iii) Econouie and financial study for A(iii) and (iv) above)             0.3         0.4       0.7         0.4
(iv)  Supervision of items A(iit) and (iv) above)                                                                      1.6         1.5        3.1        1.5       48
(v)   Hydrological study                                                  0.2         0.3       0.5         0.3                                                                      m
(vi)  Feasibility studies htaebo-hAbo Road, Coastal Corridor
and regional developmaet study                                      1.6        2.3       3.9         2.3         1.o        2.3        3.9        2.3       59
(vii) Preinvestment study for airports                                    0.2        0.3        0.5         0.3        0.2         0.3        0.5        0.3       60
(viii)Pinal design and feasibility analysis of Morococha to
La Oroya Road (including La Oroya bypass)                           -                     -           -         0.2          -         0.2        0.1       50
(ix)  Batiovride road rehabilitation study                                 -           -         -           -         0. 2        0.8        1.0        0.8       80
(x)  Technical assistance to the Mechanical Equipment Service              -                                 -         0.1         0.3        0.4        0.3        75
Sub-Total - Consulting Services                      4.0        5.4       9.4          5.4        5.7        7.1        12.8        7.2       56
D. Contingencies
(a) Phyaical
Roadvorks (items A(i) sad (ii))                                     4.8         4.4       9.2         4.4         7.1        6.5       13.6        6.5        48
River port works (items A(iii) and (iv))                            0.4         0.6       1.0         0.6         2.5        2.3        4.8        2.3        48
(b) ExPected Price Iereases
Civil works (itemes A(i) and (ii))                                  1          1                                             5.7       11 8        S.7        48
(items A(iii) and (iv))                                12.5       12.0      24.5         12.0        1.1        1.1        2.2         5.7       48
Equipment   (Items B(i) and (i-a))                                                                               0.1         0.7        0.8        0.7       88
(items B(1) and (iii))                                  0.2        1.7        1.9         1.-         -          -          -           -
Consulting Services                                                 0.5         1.5       2.0         1.5        0.8         0.8        1.6        0.8        50
Sub-Total - Contingencaies                          18.4       20.2       38.6        20.2       19.5       17.1        36.6       17.1       47
PROJECe TOTAL                                       59.3       69.4      128.7        69.4       59.1       69.3       128.4       69.4       54
502 Interest during construction                                                                            7.1                                          7.1
Loan Amount                                                                                                76.5                                          76.5



IERU
FJWECf aOMUvriN ReE
wor-mmm mw       w  aXRIvam  Rx0EC  (Loan 1196-WE)
Road CnPoent: Actual, Appasal ad Refwulation Pro ject Costs
C~$ milons)
a/                         1/                 E        b/     Atual as a rcent of
Act-al Costs         Appraise] ml   atesm     Refonlti  Esae              Total Costs Esttmated at
vRoject 2MMM                     local  Forel     Total  Local  Farei          Total  Loal  Foreign  Total    1      Piroject Refo_
1. Civil wrks
(a) LimEa-PcaUlpa Road c/      39.5     34.4   73.9   46.4       42.5   88.9    .1        32.6   68.7       83             108
(b) Feeder Roads                1.1      0.9    2.0    1.7        1.5    3.2    1.2        1.1    2.3       63              87
Sub-Total               40.6      35.1   75.9   48.1      44.0   92.1   37.3       33.7   71.0       82             107
2. Rod MIntenave &jupietnt         0.4      8.3    8.7    0.5        5.0    5.5    1.1       10.8   11.9      158              73
3. Conaltitg Services
(a) &nimerIng ard Supervison  2.6        2.7    5.3    2.1   2 .7    4.8    2.0            2.2    4.2      110             126
(b) Selva Ontral Study          0.2      0.1    0.3    2.0        2.9    4.9    1.9        2.7    4.6        6               7
(c) Airport Stady               0.2      0.2    0.4    0.3        0.4    0.7    0.3        0.3    0.6       57              67
(d) Ibr     _ h-0royaStudy      0.1      0.0    0.1    -          -       -      0.2       -      0.2        -              50
(e) Rad  el      a    Stay    0.1        0.5    0.6    -          -       -      0.2       1.0    1.2        -              83
(f) SM TechdcalAsdstance        0.1      0.5    0.6    -          -       -      0.1       0.3    0.4        -             150
Sub-Total                3.3       4.0    7.3    4.4       6.0   10.4    4.7        6.5   11.2       70              65
m       FA!.  P    XJSCo          44.3     47.4   91.9   53.0       55.0  108.0   43.1       51.0   94.1       85              98
_     _       _=_            -        =       _         _=r            
a/ Estimates for road sections twt yet complete; see TaW  3.
R I1dies yiWcal wad price nrti           .                                                                                  ' s
c/ nzldrgRAp streets. 



pEu
FR03c COULEIOE SEP0?
LIMA- O    OUAS0  0ORR20  P3033   (tLOWAN  19Pn)
go" c _nomat Contract and coat Data
(All tount. in VSttC0)
Contractor                          Completion     Data            Aooraiel Ratleee.                            atuated or 
project Itw                           oot  eor                   Con      pat         lot.    Original 1/   Refor. (1979)       Contract          Actual Coat              &=k    Cos,
Coneeanat                CSd          ontr ct    Actual    (1976)         tota       Bank      Value    local   ForelPn    TotAl   Coner.  R1.1.
CIvIl vowS (l4pu"  load)
San sleteo- _c@cocU                 Z.C.C.C.-Villosa  Aaoc.         9/05/78     6/02/80        4/01      4.170      7,00      (3,390)    5,250     5.49B     3.474      8,972     3.474     94
1. oroye-LS Cus                   cacerae4ruce Aoc.              4130180    5S21/82        3/83                                       6.05    6,003     4,643      20.64    4*43    10
U. 88k Cte10,mpre                  twiertt-816o AaeOc.             4130/80    5/21/82        12182     18.000     15,500     (7.440)   6.632      6,496     5.009     11,505    5uAJ     I0t0
111. dayre-Cerro da Paco            Comap$-Me  taco.                4/30/00  S/21/J2         12162                                       7.854     5.032    4.101      9.13      I C        0
V. Cmt  de ?& c.*     aoA          Txom-Villasal  Oc.              4/30150     S/21/82      12185                                       9,607    6.653     sA620      12.473     ,.620    es
V. eaa-_ctc                       Vera Outerre1/ 10/16180    10/25/82                        2/83     IS,590     17,500     (8,400)   6 731    4.015       3.255      7.270     3.255   It0
VI.                                I.C.C.Q.-Calulto-4N  Us.    10/16/80    10/25/82          12/85                                      9,495     7.321    5.33      13,154     5.033     Sl
5-k        48tb  epprochs        Ve 9attarre,                 0216-23/79      0/31/79       10/79       -         1.000       (480)      617       362       273        635       273   100
aln Steteate                       3LT.C.                          11/15/79    11115/80        9181      1,370      3.0O0     (1.440)   2.173      1.043     1,09B      2,141     1.098    10D
let lloa                            IbR r Coulated                     -           -           -         2.300      1.500 -V)              - 
CiVow  ub-TOrAL                                                                                       44.430     45.500    (21.840)             42,623    33,306     75,929    35.306
WD  -_ wm
let fpre Pat.                      el.g Rap. S.A.                08/10/77        -           2/78                                        ISO         7       IS0        157       I50   100
lot e   isW t Tbane8              9 Suppller            07/25/78-08/04/78        -           2/79      4.400      4.400     (4.400)   2,610        104     2.610      2.714    2.610    100
2ad Uquitnt Trulis                4 SuppltAra                    04/24/79        -          12/79                                      1.412        57    1.412       1.469     1,412   100
3rd 3qudp t   _tao0w              Diin.l del " era S.A.          07/23/SO        -           2/81       -         6.500     (5.900)      919        37       919        956       919    1O0
2nd SOa" Paxt"                    2 Suppliers                    12/ /8O         -           6/81                                      2.257       Jo0     1.062      1.970     1,062   )O0
lot WorliaSp Toole               6 SuplI9r                       10/ /82         -           -          -                                -          25       675       700        675   LO1
totoehical 3qupmnet              Not cpleted                        -           -                                  200       (200)      -                                               0
2nd Uorkap Toole          I          tot compl*eted                                              o
Not"Oof 891-TOAL                                                                                       4.400     11,100    (10,100)                338     7.628      7f968     7,628     -
couatno Sion od
Son  lotao-Noocooba               Cia. S1lsttt*r                 05/19/77       11/19/79     /1lo0s/                                     430       226       247        473       247    100
0roytaOy                          C.R.C.                         07/02/79       10/81        5/82                                     t1239        646       762      1.40B       762    zoo
Nhmyre-Somc,                      C.t.C.                         07/16/79       I0/S]       10/82      3.300      3,600     (1.900)    3,061     1.076     a.360      2,456    123o0   10o
P    lpa Street.                  .O.S.                          11/05/79       11/S0       10/83                                        120       104       132        236       132   ItO
Food=  oa.                                                                        -     -                                                -         150        50        200         0      0
ro ea-Nar                        C.N.C.                         04/11/79        8f79        8/79        Included Il Superiion           203       126        42        168        86   too
Noabrta-o co                      C.I.C.                         O4/19           9/79       12/79        tncluded JA Suervialun          471       293       12         488       26s   100
Cbtln-0pon                        L8AC                           10/t0/78        5/79        7/79                                         63        35        12         47        28   100
81o seoo.AYM                      5O..                          10/10/78        5/79        7/79      3.90       3.900    (2.300)        45        2S        10         38        20    100
Sealv  Central St18                 tC/Coo.lt.                        10/79         -         12/81                                        -         195        74        249        52    g0
Arport St"ids                       CAIN-APS-LAO-UX                 5/23/77        4178        2/80        seo        sc0      (300)       436       221       205        426       205    100
ococe.ory  Study                    C.P.s.                          6/15/8so       2/8         3/8I        -          200      (200)       130        63        21         84        10   1oo
g"d 2ahmbilittattoan Sy                                                -            -         12/81        -        1.00o      (800)       -         130       471        600       471    2o0
go8 Toceca AS ai.tance              lanardet                        6/10/80        3/82        4/82        -          400      (300)       928        87       520        607       520   ID
UT.Tl  SWF-S4.                                                                                         7            600    (5 700)               3,380     4.121     7?.Y0      4,178
A     W                                                                                               56,530    66.200   (37.6W)                                               45.112
70WJW Casy WM                                                                                                                                                    9          9         9 
co"tnpml"                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25.000  27.400   (15,510)                               6.524
" aOc.t                                                                                                 81 C )25,00e2.530  93.60   (5150)         46.341   45,064 S 1.405    513645
Project Tota  (tned C _onet)                                                                            21.290     34,800   (18.200)              16.020    18.710     34.730   17.755
tntert 0o4r Coeetructmn_                                                                                                     (7,100)                -         -
lAR 1196-l TlotA                                                                                     102,820    128,400   (76,450)              62.361    63,774    126.tS5    76.500
If no" omly te costa of project elemnts retained to the reformiaeted loa  Wtth contaSgencia. allocated on a percentas  bet.



U**-wm 1 1   a          I mwr=(Loan 1196-)
lrt Ccunt: Acttal, Appraisa ! ef          t tki*es of Pajet Cuom
O($ mulons)
Ac:/                      5/ AptPl as a e drtof
Actual Costs         spria  alue            eoulatfam Esthimate      Total Ousts Beti,mtsd at
PRita-  M22M           icai  Egd-    Thtia  Local  Forig   Total  Locgal              b Fbv4pPruject Rdos1etf
(X)          (2)
1. CLVl kbt
(a) Iqlttos                   6.2      6.1   12.3    3.1      5.1    8.2    86       8.1   16.7    150               74
(b) Yurguus                   2.2      1.8    4.0    1.0      0.8    1.8    1.3       1.1    2.4    222             167
(c) RualUpa                   5.6      5.2   10.8    2.2      2.0    4.2    2.7      2.9    5.6    257              193
s9frJtal               14.0    13.1   27.1    6.3       7.9   14.2   12.6    12.1   24.7    191               no
2. Crgo 1fliig  lp
aum dI                      -        3.4    3.4    -         5.0    5.0    -        4.2    4.2      68             80
3. 1ydvologkcl Craft ad
EquLpudnt                   -        -      -       -        0.6    0.6    -        0.5    0.5       -
4. Cmuutir Sevsces b/            1.9      1.8    3.7    0.3      0.6    0.9    1.6      1.5    3.1    411              119
mm PALPI= OC T                  15.9    18.3   34.2    6.6      141   2D.7   14.2    18.3   32.5    165                1(5
---    _-  _  -  _-  _                                                                  -
al Ioc122I1M owsial amK price omtiremcies.
Stuy of MM ad MC fbncla              mtand civi wrks desig aid spevsim.
Source: mcr, Cltanta ain Bs* records.



PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT 0LOAN 1196-PE)
All ENAPU Ports: Forecast and Actual P6tt Traffic
(Metric Tons 000)
DRY   CARGO                  LIQUID   CARGO                     TOTAL   CARGO
Forecast    Actual    Act/For   Forecast    Actual    Act/For    Forecast   Actual    Act/For
1975        6,975       8,630      124%       7,185       8,100      113X       14,160     16,730      118%
1976        7,380       7,494      102%       7,760       8,490      109%       15,140     15,984.   1061
1977        7,805       6,284       81%       8,380       7,000       84%       16,185     13,284      82%
1978        8,250       5,963       72%       9,050       6,901       76Z       17,300     12,864      74%
1979        8,745       5,357       61%       9,775       6,402       65Z       18,520     11,759      65%
1980        9,140       5,291       58%      10,555       5,710       54%       19,695     11,001      56%              v
1981          .*        7,414       *           0^        6,705       ..           .       14,119
1982          so        8,680       ..          ..        4,721       ..           ..      13,401
1983          ..        6,988       ..          ..        5,744      ..            ..      12,732      .,
,, Forecast not made after 1980..



PERU
PROJECT COWPLETION REPORT
LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRI WOR PROJECT (LOAN 1196-PE)
ENAPU - Forecast and Actual Income Statements 1976-1983
(S/. million)
1976                  1978                   1.979                  1980             1981        1982          1983
Forecast   Actual     Forecast   Actual      Forecast   Actual      Forecast   Actual      Actual       Actual       Actual
-                           -_                     -                       --
Operating Revenue         2,405      2,210       3,376     5,086        3,794     9,943       4,139    17,063       31,336      63,932       134,060
Working Expenses          2,030      2,110       2,739      3,980       3,052     6,912       3,345    16,455       30,025      56,666       110,918
Depreclation                 224       408         288       .727         328     1,397          360     2,275       2,464       5,105        17,500
Operating Expenses        2,254      2,518       3,027     4,707        3,380     8,309       3,705    18,730       32,489      61,771       128,418
Net Operating Revenue        151      (308)        349        379         414     1,634          434    (1.667)     (1,153)      2,161         5,642
Non-Operating Revenue        155       176         174       516          184     1,166          196     1,633         299      (2,934)      (14.825)
Net Revenue                  306      (132)        523        895         598     2,900         630        (34)       (854)        773)       (9.103)    c
Interest                     60         49         120       340          117       557         113       577          208       1,796        12,466     
Profit Before Tax            246      (181)        403        555         481     2,243          517      (611)       (646)       1,023        3,283
Tax                                                           249                 1,08-6
Profit After Tax             246      (181)        403        306         481     1,157          517      (6111       (646)      1,023         3,283
Working Ratio                 84        95          81         78          80        70           81        94          96           89           83
Operating Ratio               14       114          90         93          89        84           90       110         104          97            96
Rate of Return (%)             4.1      (7.4)        6.0        3,1         6.0       8.6          6.0      (5.0)       (1.0)         1.8          1.0



PB11
Pan= C RBPORS
LDNA - AWAZN UB       I COSZO  PROJZCT  MPA  1126-WE)
SIIU*   - Porecet aso  Actual Elane  het. of Deeember 31. 197S - I982
(SI. million)
I  9    5            1 9 7 6                1 9 77                 1 9 7 8                  9 7 9               19                      98 1             1982
Forecoat    Actul    Forecast    Actual   loreca          Actual   Forecast                FoReast    Actal   Forecast  Aetual    Forecast   Actl               Actal
Current Meeto                     978       1,118       1.045     1,173       1,271        1,672    1,507       2,453      1,554       4,830      1,910     6,541        6,768       9,130      22,068
Lez Curret LizabiUties          148         214         160       382         172          562       184        790        197        .000        210     1,636        2.959       3.039       6.753
NMt Current A0t                     485 1 , 0        9       9 II  17 28 1.             113                   i i        T35T       23,700                5,105       3,809      6--09        15,315 x ,
Oros F1xsd Aeet.              5,370       5,172       6,470     7,344       7,470       17,610    8,750      25,671     10,250     44,133      10,950    78,214      118.388     130,187    246,610   '
Le" Accx4d Deprecatton    1 517         1 587        1 741     2 561      1 995         6,930    2 283      11.276      2 611     20 478       2 911    35 599       50.415      53.484      91.f947
Fe  meto i use                   33 4                                                      6 8W    ti0       14,395                                                                76,703 I 5.6
Vork n-Prtore                   355        375          455       294         405         -         355       1.473        505      2.3t3         358       210        3.185       4,927       7,818 Vi
Total Not Pd 4tets                                    3 9 60 5 184  S   077                                                         25 8    6S2I 868-  2$ 978  8 337    42.825  71.150 841630 1 6 ,8
TOAL AM                    1-i                               K9                      l .2 .8 i{I         ffV7i  j;4- 8.145 1531  9.501  y i  10.0      M           74.967      87;721 .
la" Toro Debt                     894        477        1,579       767       2,145        1,014    i,128       1,466      2,503       1,725      2,S22     4,386       i4.803      1'.750      36,564
GoveCrnat squity                4,138      4,151        4,238     5,173       4,238       10,828    5,018      15,978      5,518      25,989      5,518    43,059       60,164      74,971    141,232
Retained  aina I/                   6        236          252       (92)        596         -         999a                 1 480       1 094      197         405         -R
Total Equity                4-17E-4F34                                                  SUI      .01       16c03       IW-    27 0W3          7,515                             740,64101.232
TOTA L TIABILMS             5.038      48S64A 6,06W9                      6.97f 11.842    8.1              17.531      901           I       10037    4790           4.967                  7 1   7.7
Oqwrent Ratio                   6.6        5.2          6.5       3.0        7.4             3.0   8.2           3,1       7.9        2.4         9.0       4.5          2.3         3.0           3.3
Iebt/tquity Ratio              18/82       10/90      26/74       13/87       31/69        9/91    26/74        8/92      26/74        6/94      25/75      9/91                                21/79
11 AcreTNAd     Forecost, 1Anna in Actual.
2/ Otber no-urn  sato. 



PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT (LOAN 1196-PE)
Forecast and Actual Project Ports Traffic 1/
(thousand tons)
I QU I T O S                    P U C A L L P A                 Y U R I M A G U A S
Forecast   Actual   Act/For.   Forecast   Actual   Act/For.   Forecast   Actual   Act/For.
1976           160       264       165%         104        136      131%          31          -          -
1977           170       243       143%         113        157      139%          35          -          -
1978           181       201       111%         122        170      139%          39          -          -
1979           193       216       112%         130        188      145%          43          -          _
1980           205       248       121%         139        154      111%          50          -          -
1981           218       258       118%         149        115       77%          53          -          -
1982           232       287       124%         160        166      104%          56         38  21   68%
1983             -       231          -           -        190         -           -         NA          -
1984             -       251          -           -         NA         -           -          03         -
1/  Excluding petroleum in bulk
21 1981/82 traific
3/  Estimated



PERU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIMA - AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT (LOAN 1196-PE)
.orecast and Actual Income Statements of Project Ports 1978-1982
(SI. million)
1 9 7 8                1 9 7 9                 1 9 8 0        1981        1982
Forecast    Acttzii    Forecast   xActual    Forecast   Actual    Actual
Iguitos
Revenue                            51.5        28.3        53.4        42.6       55.3       85.6       267.1     1,145.8
Working Expenses                   51.5       125.4        53.4       246.8        55.3     494.8       953.3     1,969.0
Depreciation                       25.2        16.6        25.2        23.8        25.2     116.2       22S.9        377.9
Operating Expenses                 7642.0                  78.6       270.6       80.5      611.0      1l79.2_ 2346.9
Net Operating Revenue             (25.2)    (113.7)       (25.2)    (228.0)      (25.2)   (525.4)    (912.1)   (_>201.1)
Non-Operating Rev.(Net)             4.0       108.          4.5        36.5        5.0       24.6      ( 20.6)      229.8
Income                            (21.2)    (102.9)       (20.7)    (191.5)      (20.2)   (500.8)    (932.7)       (9713)
Working Ratio                     too         443         100         579        100        578         3!7          172
Operating Ratio                   149         502         147        635         146        714        441         2a05
Puca11F2
Revenue                            30.4                    32.9                   35.2                  -           262.0
Working Expenses                   31.7         1.7        32.9         3.1       34.6        7.7        11.0       :ao.o
Depreciation                       33.6                 _ 33.6                    33.6                  -            96.0
Operating Expenses                 65.3         1.7    ____6.5          3.1       68.2        7.7   -i27-6.0
Net Operating Revenue             (34.9)       (1.7)      (33.6)       (3.1)     (33.0)      (7.7)      -          ( 14.0)
Non-Operatiag Rev.(Net)         _     _0.1)                _           (0.1)                             -           -
Income                            (34.9)       (1.8)      (33.6)          )      (33.0)      (7.7)                 ( 14.0)
Working Ratio                     104            _        100      ,              98           -                     68
Operating Ratio                   204            -        202            -       194           -        ..           *5
Yurimaguab
Revenue                            13.5                    15.1                   17.4                   0.8         28.0
Working Expenses                   14.0                    15.0                   15.5                  39.9        125.0
Depreciation                        7.4                     7.4                    7.4                   9.1         55.0
Operating Expenses                 21.4                    22.4                   22-.-9-               49. 
Net Operating Revenue              (7.9)                   (7.3)                  (5.5)                48.2)   0 I )
Non-Operating Revenue (Net)                                                                              0.2         -
Income                             (7.9)                   (7.3)                (-.                    -84         (152- 0
Working Ratio                     104                     100                     89                 4,987          446
Operating Ratio                   159                     148                    132                 6,125          643



- 34 -
PERU                                TABLE 10
PROJECr COMPLETION REFORT
LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT (Loan 1196-PE)
Lima-Pucallpa Road Traffic Flows
(AADT)
1973            1978                   1982
Appraisal             Appraisal
Actual    Actual    Estimate    Actual    Estimate
San Nateo-Morococha                1,900     1,459       2,480      2,299      3,072
La Oroya-Desvio Tarma              1,500       946       2,260      n.a.       3,105
Desvio Tarma-Cerro de Pasco          620       502         910        665      1,238
Cerro de Pasco-Salcachupan           530     n.a.          710      n.a.         913
Salcachupan-Ambo                     350       442         470        510        605
Ambo-Ruanuco                         650       642         850        846      1,094
Aguaytia-Neshuya                     230       117         300        850 a/     408
a/ 1981
Source: MTC



- 35 -
PERU                            TABLE 11
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIMA-ANAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT (LOAN 1196-PE)
Appraisal and Latest Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs
Appraisal                            Latest
Without    With       Unit          Without   'With       Unit
Project   Project   Benefit         Project   Project   Benefit
- --                 1982 soles/vehicle-km --
Car               36.3      29.0        7.3          89.8       64.2        25.6
Truck            150.0     102.5       47.5          394.0     257.2       136.9
Bus              178.5     114.5       64.0          415.3     272.8       142.4
~-   --- -1982 US cents/vehicle-km --
Car                3.7       2.9        0.7            9.1       6.5         2.6
Truck             15.2      10.4        4.8           39.9      26.1        13.9
Bus               18.1      11.6        6.5          42.1       27.6        14.4



- 36 -
PERU                            TABLE 12
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIMA-AMAZON CORRIDOR PROJECT (LOAN 1196-PE)
Economic Rates of Return:  Appraisal
Estimates Compared with Completion Estimates
Percent            Appraisal          Completion
of Total            Estimate           Estimate
Investment           Rate of            Rate of
Project Component         Costs (%)           Return (%)        Return (%)
Road Sections
San Mateo-Morococha           7                    30                 35
La Oroya-Huanuco             51                    24                 18
Pucallpa Streets              2                    18                 24
Ports
Iquitos                      10                    24                 13
Pucallpa                      9                    24                 12
Yurimaguas                    3                    17                  6



- 37 -
PERU                           ANNEX 1
Page 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project (Loan 1196-PE)
Implementation of Oroya-Huanuco Road Works
Lot I - Oroya - La Cima (36 km)
1.        This 24 month contract, which started in May 1980 was finally
completed in March 1983. In relative terms, the problems whieh arose were
minor. Redesign made during construction Included: (i) relocation of about
1 km of an irrigation canal and waterproofing the canal to stop seepage
which was affecting the road; (ii) realignment of a portion of the road to
eliminate two grade crossipgs of the Oroya to Cerro de Pasco railroad; and
(iii) addition of a multiple arch, used as a tunnel for the railway, to
eliminate a third grade crossing. In all,,additional work increased costs
about 20%, while total contract cost rose about 55% in US dollar terms due
to inflation and the effect of the Government's restraint on devaluation of
the Sol in 1981 toward 1982. Delay in completing the project was also
attributed to lack of realistic programming by the contractor, insufficient
equipment and, in particular inadequate crushed aggregate production
capacity (always a problem in Peru).
Lot II - La Cima - Huayre (40 km)
2.        This also was a 24 month contract which started in May 1980 and
was completed in December 1982, seven months late. Serious deficiencies in
the design, particularly as regards borrow sources, unforseen removal of
unsuitable materials and inadequate consideration given to the high
water-table along parts of the road caused considerable delay at the start
of the contract. After one year the contract was only 20% complete. MTC
was slow to take any action. Only after a Bank mission in May 1981 arranged
for NTC to meet with representatives of the contractor and superJising
consultant and then to send a commission to review disputed problems in the
field did the problems get resolved. After that, there was no major problem
in execution of the work except some fine cracking of the pavement, in part
due to using vibrating compaction of the asphalt concrete. Several lengthy
sections had to be sealed to correct these defects. In the early stages of
the contract, difficulties in expropriation of property and buildings also
hampered work. Many property owners had no legal title which made it
legally impossible for MTC to compensate them. This was eventually solved
by adding a compensation item to the construction contract which enabled the
contractor to pay the compensation. Cost increases due to changed work
quantities amounted to about 35% of initial contract value while total costs
increased 68% due to inflation.
Lot III - Huayre - Cerro de Pasco (41.2 km)
3.        Also a 24 month contract which started in May 1980, this contract
ran into serious technical problems on pavement construction. The



- 38 -
ANNEX I
contractor was the best organized of the six and the first to start paving
in mid-1981. With 36 km of binder course asphalt concrete in place, serious
cracking failures began to appear with less than two months traffic usage.
The supervisory consultants attributed the failure to the high parafin
content of PETROPERU's asphalt, recommending that HTC Import better asphalt
for work at high altitudes. A Bank mission consultant, with considerable
paving experience, accompanied MTC officials in assessing the nature of the
problem, and concluded that large number of factors contributed to the
pavement failure. Among the more important:
- highly rigid mix design, poorly suited to site conditions;
- insufficient fines in the mix (less than specified);
- insufficient compaction of some of the subgrade and/or base;
- particularly poor compaction of culvert and structure backfill;
- placement of ashphalt concrete at unacceptably low ambient
temperatures; and
- questionable sufficiency of asphalt concrete compaction.
Examination of records also indicated an lnsufficient control by both the
contractor and supervisors in particularly difficult site conditions. Given
the nature of other deficiencies, the effect of the parafin content in the
asphalt cement was open to question, but could not be considered as the
major cause of pavement cracking. Remedial measures which were discussed
with NTC and the supervising consultants, included preparation of a less
rigid mix design with the addition of mineral filler, improved construction
practices, permitting placement only at acceptable ambient temperatures, and
improved site control. It was also suggested that replacing cracked binder
or sealing and varying the surface course thickness should be undertaken
based on measured pavement deflections. An early decision concerning the
mix design was important since Lots IV, V and VI all had been given the same
mix specification and the contractors had then been'instructed not to start
paving until confirmation of revision by MTC of the mix designs had been
received.
4.        Again MTC made no progress in resolving the matter and the
supervising consultant continued to cite the poor quality of the asphalt,
whlle the contractor was limited to sealing operations. A Bank consultant
(pavement specialist) was sent to Peru in May 1982 to assist MTC in
resolving the problem. After visits to the site and considerable additional
laboratory tests, he prepared a report containing a series of
recommendations for improving the mix characteristics, which substantially
confirmed earlier recommendations and suggested additional measures under
the ongoing contract, to facilitate avoiding a recurrence of the cracking
problem. MTC staff were advised that it would probably be difficult to
implement all the measures but that implementing just a few would give
satisfactory results, while each additional measures would further improve
pavement quality and durability. At the time of arrival of the next misson
in late June 1982, the only action taken by MTC had been to send copies of
the report to the contractors and consultants. A meeting was arranged
during the mission with all concerned to catalyze a solution. During the
meeting it was agreed that all the more basic steps could be implemented
without problem. A follow up meeting between MTC staff, the contractors and
supervising consultants began immediately to prepare new mix designs for
each Lot. Paving operations resumed by mid-July. However, 3 months of the
season most suitable for paving had been lost.



- 39 -
ANNEX I
Pag-e 3-
5.        In spite of MTC's severe financial problems which began to show in
mid-1982 and resulted in long delays in making payments to contractors, this
contract proceded rapidly to conclusion. The contractor paying strict
attention to the recommendations which had been made and working with a new
mix design, produced the best pavement of the lots located at high alti-
tude. MTC's materials division assigned inspectors to make good the lack of
qualified personnel on the part of the supervising consultant. Increases In
work quantities were less than 10% and final total contract costs were about
16% above original contract price. The latter low figure is due to a design
change in pavement dimensions which reduced the real cost of the contractual
works by 10 below the value of the original contract.
Lot IV - Cerro de Pasco - Huariaca (57.5 km)
6.        This was the fourth 24 month contract which was started in May
1980 and was paralyzed and incomplete as of February 1985 when the loan
closed. Progress was satisfactory until mid-1981. However, the contractor
was underequipped and the lack of crushing capacity began to have negative
effects. The contractor rented an MTC crusher as a second unit which never
performed very well, and eventually installed a third unit. Insufficient
dump trucks became the next problem. A Bank mission requested MTC to stop
renting trucks from this contrator for other projects, which MTC was
performing by force account, and to insist these be sent to this project.
After the stop which was placed on paving (which had just started) due to
the difficulties on Lot ITI, work was never restarted at full rate.  The
contractor blamed his delay on delays by the supervision and MTC in
providing him with technical solutions for some problems at a number of
locations along the road as well as arrears in payment by MTC. He also was
seeking compensation for paving equipmeat which was idled when paving was
halted. Payment delays were also aggravated when the supervising consultant
refused payment on items where workmanship was unsatisfactory.
7.        At the bottom of the difficulties .ere several interrelated
factors. The projects had been bid at a time when work was scarce, and the
contractor's prices were low. The road section was difficult to work since
there was only one suitable quarry located near one end of the project,
which meant long transport distances. The contractor's programming was poor
and he had insufficient supervisory personnel at the site, so work quality
suffered. Meanwhile, with the change of Government in 1980 many new road
projects were started and both members of the contractor joint venture were
awarded contracts at better prices in other parts of the country. There was
reduced interest in sending more equipment to a less rewarding job. In
mid-1982, MTC began to have trouble meeting payments on all its contracts
and enormous sums of money began to be owed to contractorg. The contractors
exhausted their credit and in many cases were unable to continue financing
the work. MTC refused to extend the contract period, claiming there was
insufficient justification, which resulted in cost escalation payments being
calculated with the indices of the last month in which the contract was in
force. This aggrevated the payment problem and the contractor requested
that the contract be cancelled. Work came to a virtual standstill, while
the arguments continued.
8.        In the first months of 1983, the Bank informed MTC that it was not
in agreement with prequalifying the contracting firms responsible for the



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
two paralyzed contracts (Lc s IV and VI) for more work, due to be bid under
the Eighth Highway Project (Loan 2091-PE), unless these contractors had
resumed work on a satisfactory schedule. By April 1983 agreement had been
reached between MTC and the contractors on measures to permit resumption of
work. A solution was found to the problem of extending contract durations,
the contractors were to be paid advances on remaining work to provide
financial liquidity and work resumed in June 1983. Progress was made for a
few months until MTC again fell behind on payments due to lack of funds
resulting from the severe drain of funds required for emergency work after
severe flooding in the Northwest. Progress slowed to short periods of work
whenever payments for previous months were received. By December 1984, all
but 2 km had been completed. The remaining works will be carried out by
force account.
Lot V - Huariaca - Independencia (17.2ka)
9.        This contract, one of the two last ones to be bid, and started in
October 1980. Also a 24 month contract, it was finished in February 1983
about 3 months late. The principal difficulties on this contract revolved
around the question of what solutions would be used at the numerous
locations where huaycos (annual mud-slides) discharge across this section of
road. The bids were taken on designs which included more bridge and tunnel
work than the Bank was prepared to finance. The consultants eventually made
revised designs to reflect the recommendations of the Geotechnical study,
but in some instances applied these poorly so that in a few cases, the paved
dips did not perform as well as they should have. In mid-1983 MTC
instructed the contractor not to pave a 5 km section of the road, where the
Minister decided that the Government would construct additional tunnels and
bridges without Bank financing. However, this woulu have required a new
contract so when MTC's financial problems surfaced, the idea was abandoned
and the contractor was instructed to terminate the work under his contract.
This was the principle cause of delay. Work by the contractor was generally
problem free. Additional work (mostly walls) increased costs about 17% but
this was compensated by deductions in other structures so the contract was
finished at a total cost of about 8% above origin l contract value, in US
dollar terms.
Lot VI - Independencia-Huanuco (47.8km)
10.       Started in November 1980 with a 24 month contract period, this
contract should have been the easiest to complete yet was never finished.
The road for most of its length runs at an altitude of 2000-2500 meters,
free of the problems which characterized most of the other contracts. The
contractor's work program from the start was very slow and the equipment
mobilization plan in particular failed to provide for timely mobilization of
crushing plant and asphalt plant. In spite of repeated urging by Bank
missions, plant mobilization was left until 1982 and almost as soon as
paving started MTC's financial difficulties began to delay payments. As was
the case on Lot IV, the contractors proved unable to finance continued
operations and work, dwindled to a small trickle throughout 1982.  Financial
constraints prevented the contractors from purchasing asphalt and cement in
sufficient quantities, so workforces were reduced to match the rate of
purchase of materials.



- 41 -
ANEX I
Page 5
11.       After the official date for contract completion the problem of
price adjustment for cost escalation arose (para 3.41) and was not resolved
until the meetings in early 1983 (para 3.42). "' though MTC agreed to pay an
advance in order to restart the work, the actual payment was not made until
July 1983. In addition, for this contract, MTC had agreed to pay PETROPERU
directly for the asphalt which would be needed. In fact, only a part of the
line of credit for asphalt was paid to PETROPERU and once this-amount was
used up (September 1983) the contractor again was held up for lack of
asphalt. By the end of 1983 the contract was about 80% complete.
12.       Bank missions advised MTC management of the urgency of completing
river protection works and walls, on which the contractor was progressing
very slowly due to his reduced workforce, not only to permit paving to be
completed, but also to avoid possible damage to the road platform. At some
locations, excavation work which had been started for protective wall foot-
ings in 1982, and abandoned when the contract slowed down, had provoked
damage to the road platform during the 1983 rainy season (January-March).
Lack of timely action contributed to severe damage over several kilometers
of the road, in the unusually heavy rains during the first quarter of 1984.
Work stopped in December 1984 on this lot due to a shortage of funds, with
about 80% of works completed.



f > A,*~~~~~~~~~~~.                                           Mho S  
+>                      _o ~LIMA-AMAZON
i         '   gS (C>'-,]TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT  t
CO-C0  ANDX   \ -  -_-
--T ~    ~     ~     ~      t5 ;I...                                                                        -s-. 
A OM                                       I   A.                                                        ^0._.
E-CONSEUTO IND M720EM RS                                                                                                                        An^,-;    
*-'  -'pfsooSMN  N  eslil5UE                                D v3   >               ^l.                               -     >t f
5o *Ye PoRl OEDvlfD            5Ya8-       f l      ,      ,            e @               0      <rI_oS    so 
200 - RrNNL EEOAiN0 IUY0-$                                                              8, 
AS^L Ow Sj OH  .............r./  'h _  10. pe 
11-INIT-  'ADS f.R <ER -



