Report No. 659a-PEFIE C                                                                          P
Peru                                                 ~~~FILE COPY
Peru
Appraisal of a Lima-Amazon
Transport Corridor Project
December 15, 1975
Latin America and Caribbean Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the pertormance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Units                    =Sol de Oro (S/.)
US$1                              =S/. 45.o
7]S$1 million                     2 SI.  5,000,°°°
S/. 1 million                       US$ 22,222
Fiscal Year
Biennial Periods January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures
Metric                            British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                       = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                  = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq. km)       = 0.386 square mile (sq. mi)
1 metric ton ( m ton)             = 0.98 long ton (ig ton)
= 1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AADT          -  Average Annual Daily Traffic
AIALC         -   Latin America Free Trade Association
ECIA          -  Economic Commission for Latin America
ENAFER        -  Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles
ENAPU         -   Empresa Nacional de Puertos
ER            -  Economic Return
FYB           -  First Year Benefits
GDAT          -   General Directorate of Air Transport
GDLT          -  General Directorate of Land Transport
GDWT          -  General Directorate of Water Transport
GNP           -   Gross National Product
IDB           -   Inter-American Development Bank
INP           -  National Planning Institute
MTC           -  Ministry of Transport and Communications
ORDEZA        -   Organismo Regional para el Desarrollo de la Zona
Afectada (by the 1970 earthquake)
ORETT         -  Transport Tariffs Regulatory Agency
PC            -   Peruvian Corporation
SEM           -  Mechanical Equipment Service
SIMA          -  Servicio Industrial de la Marina
SINA1VI)S     -  Sistema Nacional de Apoyo a la Mobilizacion Social
SPO           -  Sectoral Planning Office
UNDP          -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID         -   United States Agency for International Development



!A7r.SA-, OF A TJMA-AYAZON TPANSPORT CO1RIDOR PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
STUTARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......................    i-iii
1.   ITN ODUCTION   ...................................      1
2.   BACKGROUND .....................................        2
A.   The Country and Its Economy          .     .2
B.   Development of the Oriente Region. .              2
C. The Transport System .               .              3
D.   Transport PoLicy and Coordination       . .        4
3.   THE HIGHWAY AND RIVER TRANSPORT SUBSECTORS .....        6
A. The Highway Subsector.                               6
B.   The River Transport Subsector .10
4. THE PROJECT ..                                           12
A. General Description .12
B.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement       15
C.   Execution ........................ 18
5. ECONOMIC EVALAT7ON   .                .19
A. General ..19
B. Economic Benefits ..                               20
6.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION ..................         .......  23
A. General   . .23
B.   Fin'ancial Policy ...................       .    23
C.  Accounts and Audit ...................... ,  23
D. Pas- .arnin.s . .                                  24
E.   ?resent Fina-ncial Position    .     .24
7'.  Fvutre Earnings and Cash Flow        .    .      24
G.  FTnancial Performance of the River Ports ..    25
,&.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOGMENDATION  . .26
.sis Ap?raisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. J. Varallyay and R. Vinekar
<n.  Aee.c  R. Seote and j. Veniard (Economists), and J. Parker (Financial
.\  tst;,> ,.-.s -bn -j tsd. b  Miss V. Foster.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
TABLES
1.   Composition of Highway Network
2.   Vehicle Registration
3.   Motor Fuel Consumption
4.  EIighway Expenditures and Road User Contributions
5.   Peruvian River Fleet Operating in the Project Zone
6.   Lima-Pucallpa Road Sections; Traffic Flows (AADT)
7.   Economic Evaluation Results of Road Sections
8.   Design Standards for the Lima-Pucallpa Road Sections
°.   River Ports Traffic
10.  River Potts; Economic Evaluation Results
11.  Alternative Routes Between Lima, Tarapoto and Iquitos
12.  Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs
13.  ENAPU Financial Statements  1970-1974
14. ENAPU Financial Statements  1975-1980
15.  ENAPU Traffic Statistics through all Public Ports (1969-1980)
16.  ENAPU Summary Cash Flow - 1971-1980
17.  Port of Iquitos - Financial Statements 1970-1980
18.  Port of Iquitos - Balance Sheet 1972-1980
19.  Port of Pucallpa - Forecast Financial Statements 1978-1983
20.  Port of Yurimaguas - Forecast Financial Statements 1978-1983
ANNEXES
1.   Previous Bank-Financed Transport Projects
2.   Railways, Ports and Civil Aviation In Peru
3.   Description and Economic Evaluation of Road and Port Elements
of Proposed Project
4.   Studies and Consulting Services to be Financed under the
Proposed Project
5.   Estimated Schedue of Disbursements
6.   F2%tA?U's Financial RelationshiDs with the Government
'YAP S
T-BD 11304 - Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project
7'^tD 11333 - Proposed Transport Improvements around Pucallpa
fl3 R   1556 - Prooosed Port -Works at Pucallpa
X3TD 11557 - Proposed Port TWorks at Yuriimaguas
7M#.D i1553 - Pronosed Port TWorks at Iquitos



PERU
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Andes, ranking among the world's highest mountain ranges,
divide Peru into three markedly different physical regions. The ecoaomic
development of the country has been influenced considerably by this division
and by the existence of rich mineral deposits in the Andes. With the excep-
tion of mining, the major part of the economic activity is centered along
the narrow coastal region and, in particular, around the Lima-Callao metro-
politan area. Transport facilities reflect the existing economic and demo-
graphic distribution. The Pan-American Highway, running the entire Length
of the country near the coast, provides the main transport system. }Hajor
secondary roads and two railway lines link the most important coasta:L cities
and the main ports with large towns and mining centers in the Andes, As a
means of stimulating economic development in the "Selva Region" to the east
of the Andes, the Government has been developing, with the participation of
the Bank, an east-west transport corridor to link the metropolitan area of
Lima-Callao with Iquitos on the Amazon River. Cargo is trucked over the
Andes and transferred at the port of Pucallpa to the river system for trans-
port to Iquitos and Yurimaguas.
ii.       Previous Bank Loans in 1960 and 1965 financed the construction of
several sections of the road, and Loan 1025-PE was approved in June 1974 to
finance the completion of construction and paving of the most critical section
(219 km, Huanuco-Aguaytia). The proposed project consists of a further stage
in the development and upgrading of this corridor, including completion of
construction, improvement and paving of four road sections (384 km); con-
struction and improvement of about 110 km of feeder roads leading into the
corridor; and construction of port facilities in the river ports of Pucallpa
and Yurimaguas, expansion of the port of Iquitos, and purchase of cargo-
handling equipment for the three ports. Construction of the floating wharf
which forms the main part of the proposed expansion of Iquitos port is being
executed by a Government-owned enterprise under a negotiated contract with
the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) and would be included in
the project along with the civil works for the ports of Pucallpa and
Yurimaguas. Purchase of road maintenance equipment to carry out a maintenance
program on the Lima-Pucallpa road and hydrological craft and equipmtA.t to
establish a number of measuring stations in the Amazon River system are also
included in the project. Also proposed is the financing of consulting ser-
vices for construction supervision, the preparation of feasibility studies
and detailed engineering of transport facilities which could form the basis
for future projects, and a regional development study in the Selva Central
area, from which investments in other sectors, in addition to transport, may
arise.



- ii -
iii.      Total project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at
USS128.7 million equivalent. The proposed loan of US$76.5 million would
finance the estimated foreign exchange conponent of TUS$69.4 million plus 50%
of the interest charges during construction, estimated to be US$7.1 million.
The remaining costs would be met by the Government. The proposed loan would
provide for retroactive financing of studies required to complete prepara-
tion of the highway element of the project (UTSS340,000) and the construction
of the floating wharf at Iquitos (US$1.4 million).
iv.       Execution of the project is expected to take about four years and
would be the responsibility of the General Directorate of Land Transport
(GDLT) insofar as road construction is concerned, and of the General D)irec-
torate of Water Transport (GDVIT) regarding port construction and improvement;
both Directorates belong to the MTC. After construction, road maintenance
would be done by GDLT, but river port maintenance and operation would be
carried out by Empresa Nacional de Puertos (ENAPU), an autonomous agency
reporting to the MTC. For this reason, in addition to the loan agreement
with the Government, there would be a project agreement with ENAPU. Present
administrative and organizational problems in both directorates would require
the appointment of a special coordinator to ensure the efficient execution
of this project. To overcome the presently unsatisfactorv division oi respon-
sibilities for ports between GDWT and ENAPU, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Government would prepare, not later than June 30, 1976
a study to determine ways and means to increase ENAPU's participation in the
planning and execution of all port projects and would carry out a plan of
action based on the findings of the study.
v.        Construction contracts for the main roads and the ports, excepting
Iquitos, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with normal Bank Group procedures. Because of the nature,
location and size of the feeder road program, the Government would have the
option of carrying out these works either through competitive bidding adver-
tised locally and in accordance with local procedures which would be satis-
factory to the Bank, or by force account under the responsibility of the
GDLT. Procurement of equipment for road maintenance, cargo handling and
hydrologic stations would be effected through international competitive bid-
ding in accordance with Bank procedures. Consultants would be engaged under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
vi.       Major development benefits would accrue from the improvement of
the transport corridor by considerably facilitating the access to existing
and potentially rich forest, cattle and agricultural, areas around Tingo
Maria, Pucallpa, Yurimaguas, and Iquitos, and bv providing a reliable all-
weather route for the inputs required by the incipient industry in the Selva
and in the exploration and production of the oil fields in the country's
northeast, for most of which expensive air transport or a long sea voyage
were previously the only available alternatives. Quantifiable benefits from
the road construction elements of the project would derive from savings in
vehicle operating, maintenance and time costs. Ouantifiable benefits from



- iii -
the port construction would derive from savings in cargo handling and in
turnaround and waiting time of river boats and barges and a lessening of
cargo spoilage and damage. The economic return from the proposed works on
the Lima-Pucalipa road is 23%. The economic return from the construction
and improvement of the three river ports is 22%.
vii.      To encourage economic development and decentralization of economic
activity from the Lima-Callao area and to foster development of the Selva,
the Government has established tax exemptions and subsidies in several sectors,
including port services. Although the Bank accepts in principle the Govern-
ment's policy of regional subsidies, agreement was reached that present
tariffs at Iquitos and future tariffs at Pucallpa and Yurimaguas should be
set at levels required to cover at least che working costs fully by 1979 in
order to minimize ENAPU's cross subsidy of river ports by profitable ocean
ports and to maintain a measure of financial discipline.
viii.     Since the financial performance of ENAPU as a whole has deteriorated
over the last few years, agreement was reached that tariffs would be set at
a level sufficient for ENAPU to earn a rar:e of return of 6%, sufficient to
cover its operating costs, debt service anid a reasonable portion of future
investment needs.
ix.       During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government that:
(a) the Government would undertake a study, by December 31, 1976, to deter-
mine appropriate financial policies for ETAPU, including the payment of
dividends to the Government, the use of present concession fees from private
ports, and ENAPU's assumption and servicing of all debts contracted by the
Government for port construction; (b) the Bank would be afforded a reasonable
opportunity to comment on the study's terrts of reference and findings and
(c) the Governnment would carry out the necessary changes in the light of
the conclusions of the study.
x.        The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank Loan of US$76.5
million (including 50% of interest during construction, estimated at US$7.1
million) for a term of 25 years, including a five-year grace period.






PERU
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01       The Republic of Peru has requested Bank assistance for the financing
of a transport corridor project comprising: (a) improvement of the road be-
tween Lima and the port of Pucallpa on the headwaters of the Amazon including
completion of construction and improvement of four road sections (384 km);
(b) improvement of feeder roads (110 km); (c) construction of new port faci-
lities at Pucallpa and Yurimaguas and expansion of the existing facilities at
Iquitos; (d) procurement of road maintenance equipment, craft and equipment
for hydrological work, and cargo-handling equipment; and (e) consulting ser-
vices for construction supervision, and feasibility and detailed engirneering
studies. The proposed project would continue the works initiated with the
help of Loans 271-PE, 425-PE and 1025-PE. It would contribute to the estab-
lishment of the first all-weather link between the Costa at Lima, the Sierra,
and the headwaters of the Amazon River. The total cost of the proposed project
is estimated at about US$128.7 million equivalent; the loan would finance the
estimated foreign exchange component of US$69.4 million and 50% of interest
during construction estimated at US$7.1 million, making a total amount of
US$76.5 million for the loan. The balance of interest during construction
and the local costs would be provided by the Government from its regular
budget.
1.02       This would be the 13th transport; project financed by the Bank in
Peru; there have been six road, four port and two railway projects (Annex 1).
The Bank is also acting as Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed technical
assistance project in transport planning, and it launched, in collaboration
with the Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLA), a transport information
program known as the Sector File Project lpara. 2.14).
1.03       A Bank transport sector mission visited Peru in September-October
1972 to update information on the sector and to review Government strategy
for development of the transport system, as reflected in the 1971-1975 Invest-
ment Plan, in the biennial investment budgets and in the list of projects
which the Government had prepared for the June 1973 Consultative Group meeting
for Peru in Paris. The content of the proposed project is based on the findings
of that mission.
1.04       Appraisal of the project was based on economic and technical studies
prepared by consultants SAUTI (Italy), Wright Engineers (Canada), Christiani
and Nielsen (Denmark), CONSULTEC (Peru), and Livesey and Henderson (UK); on
information provided by the Government; and on the findings of an appraisal
mission comprising Messrs. J. Varallyay and R. Vinekar (Engineers), A. Soto
and J. Veniard (Economists) and J. Parker (Financial Analyst), which visited
Peru in June 1974. The report has been edited by Miss V. Foster.



- 2 -
2. BACKGROUND
A.   The Country and Its Economv
2
2.01      Peru, with an area of 1.3 million km , is the fourth larges: country
in Latin America.  Its population has been growing at about 3% per annum over
the last 10 years, reaching 14.1 million in 1973. The Andes, which closely
parallel the Pacific coastline of Peru over its entire length, divide the
country into a narrow coastal region (Costa), the mountains (Sierra) and the
eastern plains (Selva). The Costa, most of which is desert, has more than
two-fifths of the country's population and six of the ten largest urbun centers,
including Lima, the country's capital, with a metropolitan population of 3.3
million. Almost one-half of the population lives on the rugged high Sierra,
while the remaining 10% inhabits the vast tropical jungles of the Selva.
2.02      The Gross National Product (GNP) grew rapidly (6.4% yearly In real
terms) during the first half of the sixties, but stagnated in the second
half of the decade. Since 1970, the growth trend has been resumed (over
5.5% during 1971-1974).  Although GNP per capita was US$520 in 1972, l/ there
are wide disparities in productivity, employment opportunities and income
levels between the Coast and the rest of the country, as well as between the
urban and the rural population. Development of transport systems along the
Costa is generally easy and relatively inexpensive, while the rugged topography
and severe climatic conditions elsewhere in the country make transportation
very difficult and costly. This physical environment, coupled with traditionally
insuffic:Lent investment in construction and maintenance of transport facilities,
has had the effect of increasing the attractiveness of the Costa for other
productive investments, thus reinforcing the geographical concentration of
economic activity.
2.03      The primary policy objective of the present Government has been to
pursue a fundamental transformation of the pattern of development by changing
the very unequal distribution of wealth and income and generating a genuine
popular participation in the development process, while promoting as rapid
an economic growth as would be compatible with that structural transformation.
To achieve these goals, the Government is carrying out, inter alia, an agra-
rian reform entailing substantial changes in land ownership and farm organi-
zation and management, and is stimulating economic deve]opment in regions
outside the Lima-Callao area, including the Oriente Region (the eastern Andes
piedmont and the Selva).
B.   Development of the Oriente Region
2.04      Development of the Selva has been hampered by several factors.
Roads within the Selva and connecting it with the Coast are poor, and most are
1/  Wiorld Bank Atlas, 1974.



- 3 -
hazardous, thus severely limiting marketing and trade. Ecological conditions
limit considerably the usefulness of most of the region for intensive agri-
culture or livestock production; only limited areas concentrated on the high
Selva (Ceja de Selva), mainly on narrow river valleys or along the few existing
roads, have so far been developed, and a few additional areas have been iden-
tified where further agricultural or livestock development may take place.
Earlier absence of a clear Government policy regarding the Selva has also
created a major constraint for development. The Government, aware of this,
promulgated in June 1974 the Decree Law 20653 (Ley para la Promocion de la
Selva) intended to protect the Indian coimiunities in the Region and to foster
regional development.
2.05      In addition to agriculture and livestock, the main potential re-
sources in the Oriente are forestry and oil production. Considering the vast
forest resources available, the country's dependence on imports of a number of
forestry products, and the growth in the world market for tropical hardwoods,
the forestry sector is only in the earliest stage of development. In the
early 1970's, an ambitious oil exploraticon program began in the northeast,
and reserves large enough to warrant the construction of a pipeline to the
Pacific Ocean have been found; the pipeline is expected to be finished in
1977. The active oil exploration progranm has already had a substantial impact
on the Region's economy and on its demand for transport services.
2.06      There are other important resources in the Region.  Fishing is
abundant in the Amazon headwaters and constitutes one of the major sources
of protein for the local population. The exploitation of the large wild palm
(aguaje) reserves and large-scale commercial production and processing of
cassava were considered very promising by the 1973 IBRD Agricultural Survey
Mission. Finally, there is an important tourism potential. The proposed
project, described in Chapter 4, will considerably enhance the possibilities
for developing the Oriente Region.
C.   The Transport System
2.07      The backbone of the Peruvian road network is the Pan-American Highway,
an all-weather asphalt road 2,750 km long, located between the Andes and the
Coast and running the entire length of the country (Map IBRD 11304). Major
secondary roads link several of the most important coastal urban centers with
large towns in the Sierra. A few roads leading further east into the Selva
have been under construction for several years, most of them with the assist-
ance of foreign financing agencies. However, with the exception of the Lima-
Pucallpa road, there is still not even a semi-permanent road connecting the
Costa, the Sierra and the Selva.
2.08      There are 2,200 km of railways in several separate networks with
different gauges and characteristics. Civil aviation plays an important role
because of the size and topographic conditions of Peru, and there are some
48 airports and two domestic air carriers: the privately owned FAUCETT and
the recently created Government airline, AEROPERU. The transport sector
includes 35 ports, 11 of which handle most of Peru's international trade, and
a considerable length of waterways. Coastal shipping is also important among



- 4 -
a number of the country's Pacific ports. About 10,000 km of navigable rivers
exist in the upper Amazon River basin, anti lake transport takes place between
Peru and Bolivia over Lake Titicaca.
2.09      In 1970, the transport system cirried a total of about 9.8 billion
ton-km and 28 billion pass-km. Of the toii-km, road transport carried about
55%, coastal shipping 33%, railways 8%, river transport 4% and lake ar.d air
transport about 0.4%. In passenger traffic, road transport is by far the
most important mode with 98% of the total.
2.10      The highway and river transport subsectors and their administrations
are described in Chapter 3. Other transport subsectors are discussed in more
detail in Annex 2.
D.   Transport Policy and Coordination
2.11      The National Planning Institute (INP) recently completed preparation
of the 1975-1978 Development Plan. For the transport sector, the main policy
objectives aim at:  (a) satisfying the transport demand of the productive
sectors; (b) supporting regional development and facilitating the inteRration
of the Andean countries (Pacto Andino); (c) fostering the development of
external trade; (d) promoting the development of an adequate transport tech-
nology; and (e) contributing to national security. Moreover, the Plan aims
at maximizing use of existing capacity in all modes and at formulating an
integrated approach with respect to infrastructure, equipment and operations.
2.12      The 1972 Bank transport sector mission reviewed the list of projects
in the 1971-1975 Five-Year Investment Plan and found it generally adequate.
However, the mission concluded that a stricter adherence to high priority
projects in the transport sector was required, as well as a stronger attempt
to reduce costs and optimize investment in road construction and betterment
works. The mission also concluded that, although in the short term the
Plan's objectives in the productive and social sectors could be met with
relativeLy minor investments in the transport sector, substantially larger
investment in transport may be required in the medium to long term to support
an adequate rate of growth of the economy and to help solve the serious social
problems in rural areas.
2.13      Transport administration and coordination improved after 1969 with
the creation of the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC). Budget
preparation and formulation of transport policy and planning within the new
organization are the responsibilities of the Sectoral Planning Office (SPO)
in the MT1C, under general guidelines and dlirectives of the INP. The SPO
has prepared the sectoral parts of the last two biennial budgets and has con-
tributed to the preparation of the sectoral parts of the Investment Plans
for 1971--1975 and 1975-1978. Nevertheless, there are several areas, particu-
larly data collection and piocessing, selection of priorities for investment,
and pricing policy, in whici the SPO has so far been ineffective.



2.14      To strengthen the SPO, the Bank, in association with ECLA, undertook
a program of technical assistance on data gathering and processing (thte
Sector File Project). Subsequently, at the request of the Peruvian Govern-
ment, a 100 man-month UNDP technical assistance project for transport plan-
ning began in August 1973, with the Bank acting as Executing Agency. Both
projects, however, have produced few results, due to changes in the manage-
ment of the SPO, and difficulties in recruiting capable staff and reorganiz-
ing the planning structure of the SPO. In 'May 1974, the Bank agreed with
the MTC and UNDP to defer a portion of the UNDP-financed project to allow
the new director of the SPO to reorganize his office. After slow progress,
MTC appointed a new director to head SPO in December 1974. Considerable pro-
gress was made in reorganizing SPO and defining specific targets of transport
planning. This process is being complemented by a final phase of the UNDP-
financed project, now scheduled to be completed in 1976.
2.15      Some modal competition exists, but the extent of uneconomic transport
of goods is limited because of the nature of the commodities hauled and the
characteristics of the competing modes. Most of the traffic carried by rail
or water transport is bulk-type cargo, for which road transport is hardly
competitive. The only exception is the Southern Railway corridor, where the
freight moved is largely composed of general cargo and agricultural products,
making it much more vulnerable to highway competition. Civil aviation also
competes for passenger traffic, particularly along the coastal corridor.
River transport in the Selva has little competition since hardly any roads
exist. Where competition is possible between modes, there is no regulation
of traffic; users may select the mode best suited to their needs. Entry into
the road transport industry is also unrestricted. Tariffs in all modes, on the
other hand, are regulated (para. 2.16).
2.16      The Organismo Regulador de Tarifas de Transporte (ORETT), an agency
within the MTC, is responsible for reviewing and proposing modifications in
the tariff structure of rail and water transport and the various taxes and
charges affecting road transport. ORETT has established a tariff ceiling for
the transport, by road, of various commodities over different types of road
surfaces and for the three main regions of the country. the unit tariffs also
differentiate by travel distance. Although enforcement is relatively loose,
limited available data indicate some adherence to such tariffs, especially
along the coast, while fares in the Sierra and Selva tend to be higher than
those set by ORETT (up to 14 USO/ton-km in some cases). In order to improve
the basis for the Government's pricing policies, the SPO will conduct a nation-
wide multimodal transport cost study complementing the UNDP-financed technical
assistance (para. 2.14); this cost study is being financed under Loan 1025-PE,
and preliminary results will be available in early 1976.



- 6 -
3. THE HIGHWAY AND RIVER TRANSPORT SUBSECTORS
A.   The Highway Subsector
(i   The Highway Network
3.01      The highway system consists of about 50,000 km of roads, of which
about 5,000 are paved, 10,000 are gravel and the remaining 35,000 are tracks
and improved earth roads (Table 1). The system is still in a very early
stage of development; not even the 2,750-km long Pan-American Highway along
the coast meets demands satisfactorily. The roads connecting the Costa with
the Sierra and Selva (except the Lima-La Oroya road) are rudimentary, the
roads irk the Sierra are at best passable, and the roads in the eastern pied-
mont and in the Selva are still mainly dry-weather tracks. Improvemernt and
development of the road network would be desirable, but large resources
would be required to raise its standards, exceeding funds available dcmes-
tically and those that might be expected from external financing agencies
in the near future. Consequently, general upgrading of the system can be
regarded only as a long-term objective.
(ii) Road Transport
3.02      There are no accurate figures on the vehicle fleet in Peru.  The
1973 vehicle fleet has been estimated by the MITC at around 370,000 vehicles,
of which 67% were automobiles, 28% trucks, pickups and vans, and 5% buses;
the annual rate of growth has exceeded 8% in the last decades (Table 2). Of
this fleet, 75% is registered in the Lima/Callao metropolitan area. Impor-
tation of road motor vehicles is restricted in order to protect the domestic
vehicle assembling industry.
3.03      Although reliable road transport data are generally not available,
indications are that the Costa is being served properlv by a diversified
fleet of trucks and that there is no produce from the Sierra and Selva which
cannot be transported because of lack of trucks, in spite of the high concen-
tration of vehicles in the Lima area. Often, however, goods cannot be trans-
ported due to road closure caused by emergencies (slides, slope failures,
floods, etc).
3.04      Traffic levels increased by about 7% yearly until 1972.  The growth
on paved roads has been about 8% and, on gravel and earth roads, about 5%.
Gasoline and diesel fuel consumption increased by about 7% per annum up
to 1972 but declined slightly during 1973 (Table 3). Traffic levels are
generally low. Only 1,100 km of road carried more than 2,000 vehicles per
day in 1970, all of them near Lima, along the Pan-American Highway, and on
spurs to the main ports. The MTC estimated that 77% of the vehicle-km on
rural roads (6.4 million/day) are on the Pan-American Highway and the
port roads, and 23% are on the remainder of the network, of which about half
are on the Lima-La Oroya-Pucallpa road and on the Central Highway through
Tarma and1 San Ramon.



(iii) Ilighway Planning and Financing
3.05      Policies in the recently prepared 1975-1978 National Development
Plan (para. 2.11) relating to roads and road transport aim at standardlizing
the vehicle fleet for passenger and cargo traffic and giving priority to
highway maintenance and to improvement of major roads.
3.06      The highway investment program is prepared by the General Directorate
of Land Transport (GDLT) in the MTC and is reviewed and coordinated with those
of other subsectors by the SPO. Biennial budget programs are thereafter sub-
mitted for approval to the INP. Rightly convinced of the need to set invest-
ment priorities on the basis of adequate technical and economic studies, the
GDLT has, in recent years, strengthened its department of studies and design
by increasing its staff and has included in its investment program a signifi-
cant amount for studies. However, both the GDLT and the SPO still require
technical assistance to impart a working knowledge of modern evaluation tech-
niques to their staff and to review present procedures and responsibilities.
The UNDP-financed technical assistance program (para. 2.14) is helping
satisfy these needs.
3.07      Highway expenditures are financed mainly from the budget.  There
are no earmarked revenues for roads, and the MTC has had some difficulty in
finding funds for adequate road maintenance and for the relatively modest
highway investment program over recent years.
3.08      Road user-related revenues have exceeded total highway expenditures
since 1968 (Table 4). Road-user revenues originated mainly in gasoline taxes
(about 70% of the total in past years) and import duties (15%); excise taxes,
licensing (rodaje), tolls and a few other taxes made up the remaining 15%
(Table 4). The price is uniform for any given type of gasoline for the Costa
and the Sierra, but varies for the Selva region, depending on location. On
July 1, 1975, the prices of gasoline and other petroleum products were sub-
stantially increased. 1/ As a result, yields of the ad-valorem gasoline taxes
also increased. Taxes on gasoline vary from negligible levels for medium
and low octane gasoline in some places in the Sierra and most of the Selva,
to about 20 US4 per gallon for high octane gasoline in the Costa. There is
an element of progressive taxation in this tax structure since the region
with the highest income -- and also the largest vehicle densities and traffic
volumes (paras. 3.02 and 3.04) -- is the most heavily taxed. Neither diesel
oil nor lubricants are taxed. Although a(lequate studies are not available,
there are strong indications that truckers are not paying their share of
highway expenditures.  As a step toward improvinig this situation, the Govern-
ment will, under the Sixth Higlhway Project, carry out a study of the marginal
1/   Petroleum product retail prices were increased as follows:  (US4 per gallon)
Premium gasoline    -    from 0.33 to 0.66, including tax
Regular gasoline    -    from 0.20 to 0.33, including tax
Diesel oil           -    from 0.09 to 0.12, including tax



- 8 -
costs of the various vehicles using the road network in Peru (para. 2.16),
and the conclusions will establish the basis for formulating a sound pricing
policy in road transport.
(iv) Highway Administration
3.09      Planning, constructing and maintaining the national road network is
the responsibility of the GDLT in the MTC; GDLT is also responsible for the
State Railways. Following a reorganization in January 1973, and in accordance
with decentralization policies of the Government, seven regions were estab-
lished, each comprising several administrative provinces. Each regional
engineer is responsible for all MTC's operations in his region. He reports,
however, to the Director Superior (Vice-Minister) of the MTC and coordinates
his work with the General Director of the GDLT.
3.10      Procurement of contracting and consulting services under Bank-
financed projects still takes too long.  The numerous administrative delays
stem from cumbersome procedures, excessive controls and clearances, anid poor
delegation of authority. Stepped-up Bank involvement in the transport sector
and the negative effects of delays upon development of the sector requiire
the remedial action of the Government in this area.  Therefore, a project
coordinator would be appointed to assist in the supervision of the project
with effective coordination and liaison wDrk (para. 4.23).
(v) Highway Construction
3.11      After a long period of inactivity, the Government of the early '60's
launched an ambitious road construction program, which ran into a number of diffi-
culties arising from inexperience and underestimation of the problems involved in
building roads across the Andes.  The country's financial difficulties further
aggravated the situation. The present Government scaled dowm the construction
program considerably, particularly during the initial portion of its 1971-1975
Investment Plan. Recently, however, it has accelerated the pace of road con-
struction with the assistance of international financing agencies. In addi-
tion to projects financed with Bank's assistance (para. 1.02), the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) is financing the improvement of the Jaen-San
Ignacio road in the north and the improvement and paving of a number of
tourist roads in the Cuzco area in connection with a larger tourist project.
The IDB is also financing a study of the improvement of the Olmos-Corralquemado
road, a section of the main transversal Olmos-Tarapoto-Yurimaguas across the
northern Andes. This road will establish a permanent land access to Jaen-San
Ignacio, to the petroleum exploration area in the northeast and to the agri-
cultural valleys of Tarapoto and Yurimaguas. USAID has also approved a loan
for the continuation of the Rio Nieva-Tarapoto road section along the same
transversal. It is expected that a continuous land connection between the
Coast and the Selva -- albeit precarious -- will be established along this
transversal in 1976; this would constitute an alternative to the central
corridor through Tingo Maria and Pucallpa.



- 9 -
3.12      There is a fairly well developed national construction industry;
several firms are capable of executing highway works in the US$3-5 million
range annually. Recently, domestic firms have been awarded contracts for
road construction, through international competitive bidding, for works
financed under Loan 706-PE and Loan 1025-PE (Annex 1).
(vi) Highway Maintenance
3.13      With a still underdeveloped highway network, highway maintenance
is even more important than usual. Moreover, because of the adverse seismic,
climatic, and geological conditions in most of the country, an unusually high
amount of emergency maintenance is required. Traditionally, funds allocated
for maintenance have been insufficient; the current budgetary allocations
amount to about US$15 million equivalent p.a., or a very low US$300 per km-
year. As a result, roads are generally poorly maintained, particularly paved
highways. The Government's plans call for increased emphasis on road main-
tenance (para. 3.05), and a doubling of the maintenance allocation was made
for 1975/76. Even this may prove less than the maintenance needs of the
system, estimated roughly at around US$35 to 40 million per year by the 1972
transport sector mission. Nevertheless, as the financial constraint is
removed, other limitations, mainly organizational, and the lack of sufficient
qualified staff may prove to be more pressing.
3.14      Road maintenance is also impaired by inadequate operations of the
Servicio de Equipo Mecanico (SEM), a Government agency within the MTC respon-
sible for renting maintenance and construction equipment to all users (public
as well as private) on a commercial basis. Although the principle of charging
for the use of Government-owned equipment is sound, the creation of SEM has
contributed to poor road maintenance, mainly due to (a) poor coordination
between SEM and DGLT, (b) insufficient equipment, and (c) the lack of expe-
rience of the road engineers running SEM.
3.15      In March 1974, a program of teclnical assistance and training in
road maintenance (consultant Roy Jorgensen and Associates, US) was begun,
financed under Loan 706-PE, which is expected to improve maintenance prac-
tices and to recommend solutions for the corganizational and operational
problems of SEM, as well as for SEM's and DGLT's investment and recurrent
budgets. SEM proposed a program of equipment acquisition for 1974-1978, and
the consultants recommended that it be acquired by MTC without delay. The
proposed purchase, which is yet to be made by the Government with its own
funds, should alleviate equipment shortage in the short term.
3.16      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it will start implementation within nine months from the effective date
of the proposed loan, of a nationwide program for maintenance of roads on
the basis of the findings and recommendations of the study financed under
Loan 706-PE (para. 3.15), with such modifications as may be made by the
Government in consultation with the Bank; furthermore, an agreement
was reached to expand the present technical assistance to include



- 10 -
the revision of existing accounting procedures and budgetary allocations con-
cerning SEM and the Directorate of Traffic (dealing with maintenance in DGLT)
with a view toward improving existing practices regarding the rental of
maintenance equipment.
B.   The River Transport Subsector
(i)  Waterways
3.17      Inland transport in the "Oriente Region" of the Peruvian Amazon
Basin depends almost exclusively on the waterways provided by the widespread
river system. The Ucayali and Maranon Rivers, which traverse the Region
before joining to become the Amazon, serve as the main transport links
connecting the principal towns of Iquitos, Pucallpa and Yurimaguas. During
the dry season, the Ucayali, downstream of Pucallpa, and the Maranon, down-
stream of Yurimaguas, are navigable by vessels drawing up to 2.5 and 2 meters
respectively. Below Iquitos, vessels drawing up to 6 meters can navigate the
Amazon all year around. Some 100,000 tons of goods and 5,000 passengers are
transported on these rivers annually among the three towns.
3.18      A wide variation in the water level between the flood and dry
seasons characterizes the rivers in the Oriente Region. The difference
between high and low flow levels is 11.5 meters at Iquitos, 10.5 meters at
Pucallpa and 8.0 meters at Yurimaguas. Also, during floods, the rivers
carry a heavy silt charge and are prone to change their courses in certain
reaches. While the rivers near Iquitos and Yurimaguas have shifted little
recently, the Ucayali River near Pucallpa has moved its channel considerably
over the last 30 years (as shown by aerial photographs), except when con-
strained by tough clayey material on the western bank.
(ii) River Fleet
3.19      Over 250 commercial vessels registered in Peru trade on the Amazon
River system (Table 5). They include seagoing ships which ply downstream of
Iquitos and river boats, barges, tank-barges, tugs and motor-boats which run
on the upper reaches up to Pucallpa and Yurimaguas and beyond. River boats,
most of which are old and have decked-over hatches, are being replaced by
barges with removable hatch covers permitting faster cargo-handling by cranes.
There is also a trend toward bigger barges. With the beginning of oil, ex-
ploration, a large demand for barges and cank-barges has developed; as a
result, there is a shortage of vessels in the river system. However, both
the Government and the private sector are expanding the capacity of the river
fleet considerably to meet the present demaand.
(iii) Port Operations
3.20      Present operations in the ports of Iquitos, Pucallpa and Yurimaguas
are described in Annex 3.



- 11 -.
(iv) Organization and Management of Ports
3.21      Under the overall supervision cf the MTC, exercised through the
GDWT, the National Port Authority (Empresa Nacional de Puertos--ENAPU) estab-
lished in January 1970, operates and manages all public ports in Peru--sea
ports as well as river ports. EiNAPU alsc collects concession fees from private
ports owned and operated by industrial and commercial enterprises. Biennial
budgets are prepared by ENAPU and approved by the MTC and INP.  The G:)vernment
has limited the responsibility of ENAPU to operating the public ports and to
maintaining and expanding existing facilities; GDWT is entrusted with overall
planning, preparation and execution of projects for new ports and even for
major expansion of existing ports. On completion, all new ports are handed
over to ENAPU for operation and management. Of the three river ports mentioned
above, only Iquitos, where port facilities exist, is operated by ENAP1J. At
Pucallpa and Yurimaguas, the operations are subject only to checking the bills
of lading to record goods passing into and out of the ports. When the port
facilities included in the proposed project (para. 4.01), are installed, ENAPU
will take over the operation and management of these ports also.
3.22      ENAPU's record since its inception has been good.  Ilowever, the
present division of responsibilities between GDWT and ENAPU, which was estab-
lished with the agreement of the Bank, has not, in fact, ensured the latter's
effective participation in the planning and construction of new facilities.
Both because ENAPU has good operational and technical know-how of port
planning (having inherited the experienced staff of the former Callao Port
Authority and the Department of Port Administration) and because it has to
be answerable eventually for the efficient operation of the facilities, it is
logical and desirable that the responsibility for the design and execution
of new development should be transferred to ENAPU; GDWT should retain charge
of overall subsector planning and its coordination with other subsectors
within MTC, as well as budgetary control over ENAPU.  During negotiations,
assurances were received that the Government would (a) prepare, not later
than June 30, 1976, a study to determine the ways and means to increase
the participation of ENAPU in the planning, design and execution of all future
port works; (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
on the conclusions of the study; and (c) carry out a plan of action prepared
on the basis of such conclusions.
(v) Tariff Policy
3.23      Charges to port users for services provided by ENAPU in each port
do not, in many cases, reflect tile operating expenses of providing these
services by cost center; at present, the bulk of port revenues are derived
from charges on cargo with disproportionately small amounts of revenue coming
from ship, pier and warehousing charges. Moreover, since tariffs have not
been revised since 1968, their level is low. Both the structure and level
of charges have to be changed. ENAPU is aware of this need and is presently
undertaking a tariff study of sea and river public ports with the aim of
requesting a revision in 1976.



- 12 -
4. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      This proposed Lima-Amazon transport corridor project would consist
of:
(a)  Improvement of the road between Lima and the port of Pucallpa,
comprising completion of construction and improvement of four
road sections, and improvement of two feeder roads leading into
the main corridor, as follows:
(i) San Mateo-Morococha (35 km);
(ii)  La Oroya-Huanuco (234 km);
(iii) Aguaytia-Neshuya (106 km);
(iv) Access road to Pucallpa and its river port,
including some streets of Eucallpa (9 km); and
(v)  Feeder roads (110 km).
(b)  Improvement of the upper Amazon River transport system,
comprising construction of new ports at Pucallpa (Map
IBRD 11556) and Yurimaguas (Map IBRD 11557), expansion
of the existing port at Iquitos (Map IBRD 11558), and
provision of cargo-handling equipment at all three ports;
(c)  Procurement of road maintenance equipment and workshop
installations;
(d)  Procurement of equipment and craft for hydrological works; and
(e)  Consulting services for:
(i) feasibility and detailed engineering studies
for 115 km of the road sections included
under (a) above;
(ii) updating of economic and financial evaluation studies
for ports under (b) above;
(iii) master plan and feasibility studies of priority
sections for the coastal corridor;
(iv)  feasibility study of the Anmbo-Huacho road;



- 13 -
(v) feasibility study of a number of regional airports;
(vi) regional development plan for the Selva Central area; and
(vii) supervising of construction of items (a) and (b) and of
procurement in items (c) and (d).
(i) Construction and Improvement of the Lima-Pucallpa Road
4.02      During implementation of the Oroya-Aguaytia Road Project (Loan 425-PE,
US$33 million, 1965), extraordinarily difficult geological and climatic condi-
tions caused large cost overruns, and the Borrower and the Bank agreed in 1960
to reduce the scope of the original project to match available funds. Remain-
ing works were transferred for execution under a later phase. Part of these
"second phase" works (the Huanuco-Aguaytia and Pucullpa Neshuya sections) were
included in the Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1025-PE, US$26 million, 1974); the
rest are now included in this proposed project. After completing this project,
all sections of the Oroya-Pucallpa road would be built to a 20-year design
standard, and the entire Lima-Pucallpa corridor would be paved, with the excep-
tion of about 60 km of difficult stretches which would be improved, but not
paved until geotechnical studies financed under Loan 1025-PE are carried out.
4.03      Works under the proposed project would be executed along four sep-
arate sections of the Lima-Pucallpa road. Details are provided in Annex 3;
traffic flows are given in Table 6 and cost information in Table 7.
4.04      The standards to which the road sections have been designed (Table 8)
were optimized by the consultants and are satisfactory to the Bank. One excep-
tion is the Aguaytia-Neshuya section, but final design and costs for this
section will be confirmed by the Bank before procurement of contracts and
disbursements (para. 4.13). Geometrical standards are largely given, since
the proposed work is essentially paving along an alignment which was con-
structed previously. Pavement design calls for hot asphaltic mix over most
sections with higher traffic volumes and heavy commercial traffic; lighter
double surface treatment is recommended in sections of geological instability
to minimize loss of pavement in the event of land slips.
(ii) Improvement of Feeder Roads
4.05      In addition to providing an efficient  transport corridor between
Lima and the Amazon region, the project's other main objective is to enhance
development in the regions connected by that corridor. The improvement of
two feeder roads (110 km) under the proposed loan, in addition to the three
feeder roads (200 km) already financed under the Sixth Highway Project, would
help fulfill this second objective. The GDLT selected the Tambo del Sol-
Huachon and the Huanuco-Churubamba roads, where modest improvements, includ-
ing construction of bridges, culverts, passing platforms, and improved earth
surface over a standard width of 4 meters, would significantly reduce transport
costs. Details on the feeder roads proposed for improvement are given in
Annex 3.



- 14 -
(iii) Construction of River Ports
(a) Pucallpa
4.06      The town of Pucallpa is built on a tough clay layer which helps to
hold the course of the Ucayali River close to its present alignment; however,
the possibility of the river bypassing the town cannot be ruled out (para.
3.18). Because of this risk, the Government, in 1971, commissioned 'ivesey
& Henderson (UK) to carry out a hydrological study and to recommend a suitable
site for port installation. The study concluded that: (a) of the two possible
cutoffs, one about 11 km upstream of Pucallpa and the other opposite Pucallpa,
the latter would result in the river bypassing the towm, but it is less pro-
bable than the former and is not likely to occur in the near future; (b) the
bank around La Hoyada, where the clay is firm, is suitable for locating the
port installations (Map IBRD 11383); (c) works for training the river would
not be justified at present and should not be considered until substantial
additional hydrological data extending over several years are available; and
(d) a program of hydrological, topographical and aerial surveys and collection
of data should be undertaken on a continuLng basis. In view of these findings,
it is proposed that a timber wharf should be constructed at La Hoyada since
this is the least costly of the three options examined. It can be built with
locally available material and labor and can be so designed that parts of the
structure can be quickly dismantled and re-used at another site.
(b) Iquitos and Yurimaguas
4.07      Apart from the need to take into account the large variations in
water levels between flood and dry seasons at all three ports (para. 3.18),
the ports of Iquitos and Yurimaguas do not present unusual construction diffi-
culties.
4.08      Traffic volumes for the three ports are show^n in Table 9 and the
estimated costs and economic evaluation results in Table 10; details of the
existing and proposed facilities at the three ports are given in Annex 3.
(iv)  Road Maintenance Equipment
4.09      Following a first tranche of maintenance equipment financed under
Loan 1025-PE for the La Oroya-Huanuco and Aguaytia-Pucallpa sections, addi-
tional equipment and shop installations would be procured under the proposed
project. This would ensure a satisfactory level of maintenance on the entire
road corridor once construction and improvements are completed.  The list of
maintenance equipment and workshop installations to be procured should be
reviewed by the consultant (Jorgensen Associates/USA) to ensure effective
coordination between maintenance of the project road and the ongoing nationwide
maintenance effort (para. 3.15). An assurance was obtained during negotiations
regarding the financing and implementation of an overall maintenance program
for the Lima-Pucallpa road within the context of the recommended nationwide
maintenance program (para. 3.16).



- 15 -
(v) Hydrological Equipment
4.10      The proposed project includes provision for automatic water level
recorders, current meters, echo sounding recorders, turbidity meters, and
survey boats, etc., for setting up two survey units (Type 1) for intensive
observations near port installations and one survey unit (Type 2) for monitor-
ing the whole river system, as recommended by the consultant Livesey and
Henderson.
(vi) Consulting Services
4.11      The proposed project includes technical assistance for five studies,
of which the first two (Annex 4, paras. I and 2) concern items financed under
this proposed project. Consultants have been engaged for these two st:udies,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that consultants would be contracted, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out the remaining three studies,
as well as to help supervise civil works and procurement. A description of
the five studies is given in Annex 4.
B.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement
4.12      Total project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at
US$128.7 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$69.4
million. A summary of project costs is shown on page 17.
4.13      Cost estimates for road construction of the La Oroya-Huanuco section
are based on completed final engineering and adjusted for prices obtained
in the second quarter of 1975; estimates for the San Mateo-Morococha section
were likewise obtained from detailed engineering. Estimates for the Aguaytia-
Neshuya section and for the access to Pucallpa port are based on recently
completed detailed engineering, not yet reviewed by the Government or the
Bank. These studies will be reviewed by the Bank prior to calling for bids
to ensure that design standards are adequate for conditions of the Amazon
basin and that corresponding costs are minimized as well as remaining within
negotiated estimates. Average costs per Im for the proposed main road works
vary from a high of US$324,000/km for a 21-km section of the La Oroya-}luanuco
road -- where no improvements were made under the previous projects -- to a
low of US$120,000/km in other sections. Average costs for feeder roads are
about US$20,000/km. Cost estimates for consulting services reflect prices
of recent contracts with local and foreign consultants in Peru, with an
average cost per expatriate man-month of about US$6,000, including normal
overheads and expenses.
4.14      Cost estimates for improvement of feeder roads are based on the
findings of an identification mission and preliminary evaluations by DGLT
which were confirmed during negotiations.
4.15      The cost estimates for the river ports, based on consultants'
feasibility studies, have also been adjusted to June 1975. Of the three



- 16 -
river ports, Iquitos, where seagoing ships are suffering considerable delay,
has been assigned, by Government, the highest priority for development, and
it has adopted the only practical course for achieving speedy construction
of an additional berth by negotiating, through ENAPU, in December 1974, a
contract with the Servicio Industrial de la Marina (SIMA), an autonomous
enterprise under the Ministry of Navy, for the construction of the steel
pontoon and access bridges for a new floating wharf for seagoing vessels.
SIMA, which has well equipped workshops and slipways on the river bank in a
convenient location near Iquitos, possesses the required construction capabi-
lity and is in a favorable position to build these structures quickly, using
the steel available in stock. It was unlikely that any other organization
would have been able to improve upon the terms (S/149 million or US$3.3 mil-
lion) offered by SLIA.  The absence of competitive bidding in this award of
the conitract to SIMA could not be considered as having resulted in a disad-
vantage to ENAPU. The design of the pontoon and bridges has been reviewed by
consultants acceptable to the Bank and the minor changes suggested by them
have been agreed to by ENAPU.
4.16      In the case of the road element of the proposed project, a 15%
quantity contingency was used as a reflection of the unusually difficult
geological conditions and almost continuous history of slope failures during
construction. For the river ports, an allowance of 10% for physical contin-
gencies was considered adequate. The allowances for price contingencies are
indicated at the foot of the table on page 17.
4.17      The financing of the proposed project would be as follows.  The pro-
posed Bank loan would cover the estimated foreign costs, and the Government
would finance the local costs from budgetary sources.  During negotiations,
it was urged, on behalf of the Government, that, in view of the pressure on
the country's short-term financial needs due to the bunching of several
projects, the Bank should consider financing interest during construction.
It is therefore recommended that the proposed Bank loan finance, in addition
to the foreign exchange costs of the project, up to 50% of estimated interest
charges during construction, i.e., US$7.1 million, to help alleviate their
short-term constraints.
4.18      The foreign exchange element of the civil works has been estimated
by the consultants, assuming that two-thiuds of such works would be executed
by Peruvian firms and the remainder by foteign firms; the only exception
would be that the works at Iquitos would be carried out by a Government agency
(para. 4.15).  The foreign exchange comporent of consulting services has been
based on recent experience, assuming a blEnd of local and foreign consultants
which would be furnished by joint ventures.
4.19      The biennial Government budgets do not include local costs of pro-
jects, which are expected to be financed by foreign agencies until the
financing is secured.  The Government, however, gave assurances, during nego-
tiations, that the necessary allocation for the two-year 1975/76 budget period
would be made, promptly as needed, and that subsequent allocations for future
two-year periods would also be made.



_ 17-
PERU
APPSAISAL OF A LIMY-AMATZOl TRANSP(IIT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Summary of Estimated Cost of the Project
Bank
S/c (million)                             us$ (Million)                           Participation
Local    Foreign    Total              Local    Foreion    Total                 (Million)      Total Cost
A.   Civil Works V
(i)  Improvement of the Lims-P-allpa Road
(including the access to, asd the
streets leading to the port area of,
Pucallpa)                                                 1,401      1,278      2,679              31.1      28.4        59.5                 28.4             48
(ii)  Improvement of feeder road                                   50          55        105               1.1       1.2         2.3                  1.2            52
(iii)  Construction of ports at Pucallpa and Turiimaguas             97         90        187               2.2       2.0         4.2                  2.0            48
(iv)  Expansion of Port at Iquitos                                  92        157        250               2.1       3.5         5.6                  3.5            62
Sub-Total - Civil Works         1,641      1,580      3,221              36.5      35.1         71.6                35.1             49
b.   Equioment
(i)  Road maintenance equipment                                   19        180         199              0.4       4.0         4.4                  4.0             91
(ii)  Cargo handling, fire fighting and dredging
equipment                                                              189        1&9                _        4.2         4.2                  4.2            100
(iii)  llydrelogicsl equipment                                       -          22         22                -        0.5         0.5                  0.5           100
Sub-Total - Equipment              19         391        410              0.4       8.7          9.1                  8.7            96
C.   ConsultinY  Services
(i)  Feasibility study ard detailed engineering for
115 km of item A(i) above (the Aguaytia-Ueshuya
section)                                                      8         13         21               0.2       0.3         0.5                  0.3             60
(ii)  Supervision of items A(i) and (ii) above                     66          81        147              1.5       1.8          3.3                  1.8            54
(iii) Study co update economic and financial aspects
of works under items A(iii) and (iv) above
12         17         29               0.3      0.4          0.7                  0.4            57
(<v)  Design and supervision of  works under items
A(iii) and (iv)
(v)  Hydrological studies                                          7          14         21              0.2       0.3         0.5                  0.3             60
(vi)  Feasibility study for A,sbo-Huacho road and
Coastal Corridor, ard regional development study             74        104        178               1.6       2.3         3.9                  2.3             59
(vii)  Pre-investment stud) for airports                              7         14         21               0.2      0.3          0.5                  0.3            60
Sub-Total - Consultine Services       174         243        417              4.0        5.4         9.4                  5.4            57
D.   Continseocies
(a)  Phvsical
15% on road works (items A(i) and A(ii))                    217        200        417               4.8       4.4         9.2                  4.4             48
10% on river works (items A(iii) and A(iv))                  19         25         44               0.4       0.6         1.0                  0.6            60
(b)  Expected Price Increases
Civil works (all road and river works) 2/                   565        540      1,105              12.5      12.0        24.5                 12.0            49
Equiplet                                                      8         77         85               0.2       1.7         1.9                  1.7             89
Consulting Services J4/                                      23         67         90               0.5       1.5         2.0                  1.5             75
Sub-Total - Contingencies        832        909      1,741              18.4      20.2        38.6                 20.2             52
PROJECT TOTAL    2.666        3,123      5.789              59.3      69.4       128.7                 69.4             54
5O % of Interost during construction                                                                                                                7.1
Loan Amourlt                                                                                                                                       76.5
I/  Civil Works base costs _alculated for June 1975, not considering internal price increases by Government effective July 1, 1975.
2I  Based on foreign cost escalation of 16% (1975), 14% (1976), 12% (1977-79)   In all cases, local escalation assumed 22% (1975),
31  Based on foreign cost escalation of 12% (1975). 107, (1976),  8% (1977-79) 718  (1976) and 25% thereafter
4/  Based on foreign cost escalation of 10% (1975),  8% (1976),  7% thereafter



- 18 -
4.20      Disbursements would be made as follows:
(a)  for civil works, 484 of the total expenditures,
representing the estimated foreign exchange cost to the
economy;
(b)  for equipment, 100% of foreign exchange expenditure on
imported equipment, or 100% of the exfactory cost of
locally produced equipment; and
(c)  for consulting services, 57% of the total expenditures,
representing the full foreign cost of such services.
With regard to item (a), and since the engineering for the Aguaytia-Neshuya
section has not yet been finalized (para. 4.13), it was agreed during nego-
tiations that this section would be subject to separate bidding and that dis-
bursements would not be made unless designs and cost estimates are reviewed
and accepted by the Bank (paras. 4.04 and 4.13).
4.21      The foreign cost of consulting services for two studies related
to the proposed project, estimated at US$340,000, and part of the foreign
exchange cost of works being executed by SIMA at Iquitos, estimated at
US$1.4 million equivalent, are recommended for retroactive financing from
July 1974.
4.22      A schedule of disbursements based on the above estimates of cost
and interest during construction is included in Annex 5. Any funds remaining
in the loan account after the project has been completed would be cancelled.
C.   Execution
4.23      Execution of the project would be the responsibility of MTC, through
the GDLT, for the road components of the project, through GDWJT for the port
works of Pucallpa and Yurimaguas and through ENAPU for the port works at
Iquitos. Because of MTC's administrative delays (para. 3.10), a project co-
ordinator would be appointed, who would report directly to the Director
Superior of the MTC and who would be responsible for following up and coor-
dinating all actions in the various Directorates of the MTC pertaining to
the implementation of the proposed project. The project coordinator would
be required to submit, about a year after his appointment, a report which
would be reviewed, inter alia, by the Bank, evaluating the efficacy of the
position of the project coordinator in order to judge whether the practice
should be generally adopted in projects of this nature. Agreement was
reached with the Government during negotiations that a project coordinator
with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank would be appointed not later
than April 1, 1976. The execution of the project is expected to be completed
by June 30, 1980.
4.24          Procurement would be as follows, as agreed during negotiations:
(a)      For road works:



- 19 -
(i)  Work on Lima Pucallpa Road would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines. The work would be divided and bid in
nine lots, and bidders would be given the opportunity to
bid for any combination of lots or for the whole package.
(ii)  Improvement of feeder roads, because of the nature of the
work, would be procured under the procedure outlined in
paragraph 4.25.
(b) For river port works:
(i)  Pontoon and access bridges for Iquitos are under a contract
which ENAPU has already signed with SIMA.
(ii)  The remainder of the civil works would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding according to
Bank guidelines.
(c)  For equipment:  All equipment for road and river works would
be procured under international competitive bidding according
to Bank guidelines, with preference to domestic manufacturers
of 15% of CIF price or the applicable duty, whichever is lower.
Regional preferences would not apply, since MTC is exempt from
import duties.
4.25      For execution of feeder road improvements, alternatives were recom-
mended by the Government.  According to these recommendations, the Borrower
would have the option to carry out the works either through competitive bid-
ding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures which would
be satisfactory to the Bank, or through the MTC by force account. The MTC
would prepare detailed designs as required, make them available to the Bank
for approval, and engage consultants to supervise execution. If competitive
bidding were chosen, bids would be invited for both feeder roads simultaneously.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the procure-
ment procedures and preparation of required detailed engineering, and assur-
ances were also obtained from the Government that the works would be super-
vised by consultants under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The main population centers in the Selva have been traditionally
linked to the rest of Peru by air services or by ship through the Amazon
River and the Panama Canal.  Intraregional transportation takes place mainly
via the Amazon River system. For many years, the Government has considered



- 20 -
as a high priority project the provision of an all-weather road between Lima
and Pucallpa, and from there by river to Yurimaguas and Iquitos. Consequently,
investments were made during the last three decades to build and improve this
road, and a corridor has been established on which a major portion of the
commodities destined to the Selva, and the products from the Selva to the
Sierra and Costa markets, are transported. Much of the road portion of the
corridor is unpaved and subject to closures in bad weather. The proposed
project: aims at paving most of these sections and providing river port
facilities.
B.   Economic Benefits
5.02      For the road element of the proposed project, only direct user
benefits involving reductions in vehicle operating costs, and driver and
passenger time costs, were evaluated. Other benefits which have not been
included are reduction of traffic accidents, reduced breakage and spoilage
of cargo and reduced inventory costs for goods in transit; to the extent
that the road improvement will produce such benefits, net benefits have been
understated. In addition to road user savings, changes which are expected
to occur in maintenance cost as a result of the proposed improvements, includ-
ing the provision of additional maintenance equipment for the Lima-Pucallpa
road, were included in the evaluation. The economic analysis has also been
adjusted to account for the small diversion of traffic from the proposed
corridoir to the one being built across the northern Andes (para. 3.11), after
the latter is opened to traffic. Table 11 demonstrates that the proposed
Lima-Aniazon corridor provides the least transport cost alternative between
Lima and Iquitos. In a separate economic analysis of the maintenance program,
the equipment provided under the proposed project and recurrent yearly expend-
itures financed by the Government were also evaluated, with satisfactory re-
sults.
5.03      As a basis for computing road benefits, the Government (for the San
Mateo-Morococha section) and SAUTI (for the La Oroya-Huanuco section) developed
estimates of vehicle operating costs for conditions in Peru, based on de Weille 1/
and recent studies prepared by other consultants, 2/ and using Peruvian prices
as input. These estimates, which are satisfactory, were adjusted by the Bank
and are shown in Table 12.
5.04      In the case of the river ports, the principal benefits would be:
(a) faster turnaround time for ships in port; (b) lower cargo-handling costs;
and (c) reduced cargo damage and pilferage, particularly in the cases of
Pucallpa and Yurimaguas, where considerable cargo damage and pilferage occurs
due to the present practice of cargo-handling over the river banks and the
lack of warehouses and protected storage areas.
1/   Quantification of Road User Savings, World Bank Occasional Paper Number
Two, 1968.
2/   The Government based its estimates on the feasibility study for the
Olmos-Corralquemado road prepared by SAE-Berger in 1974, which, in turn,
is; based on de Weille.



- 21 -
5.05      Because of the corridor characteristic of "collecting" traffic
destined to Lima, with relatively minor local traffic volumes, except near
the main centers, the economic evaluation of each road section (excepting
San Mateo--Morococha) is dependent on the others remaining open to traffic.
Also, the feasibility of the port of Pucallpa's improvement depends upon the
Lima-Pucallpa road remaining opened. Similarly, the economic justification
of improvements to each one of the river ports depends on the other two con-
tinuing in activity (i.e., with the exception of the international traffic
moved through Iquitos, they constitute practically a closed system), and the
resulting improvements in cargo handling (palletization) in each port would
have an economic effect on the other two. 1/ In short, a number of economical
and operational system effects are expected as a result of the project.
5.06      The principal beneficiaries of the project would be the truckers
and river barge owners, in the first instance, and, largely because of the
competitive nature of the transport industry in Peru, the economically active
population in the vast zone of influence as well. Truckers would benefit
from reduced wear and tear to their vehicle fleet and increased safety and
comfort. Port crews would benefit from increased safety, while river barge
owners would see the itilization of their fleet increased due to reduced
.turnaround time at the three ports. Producers and merchants would benefit
from the reduced travel time and transport costs to the main markets and from
the increased reliability and reduced damage to cargo. The savings in trans-
port costs are expected to provide important incentives to forestry and agri-
culture producers in the Selva, through reduced price for their inputs and
a larger margin on their sales. A similar effect would favor the incipient
industry in Iquitos and Pucallpa, which depends heavily on inputs from Lima
and the Coast. A lesser, but wider spread, effect would accrue to the popula-
tion of the three river ports and to the consumers of Selva products in the
Costa, for whom prices for such products may not increase as much as they
would have without the improved transport system. Additionally, a number of
projects in the productive sectors would be particularly favored by the pro-
posed corridor project, inter alia, the Tingo Maria-Tocache-Campanilla agri-
cultural settlement scheme, the ongoing industrial exploitation project of
the Von Humboldt forest between Tingo Maria and Pucallpa, the cattle experi-
mental projects at San Jorge and Tournavista, near Pucallpa, and several
private industrial projects, such as the paper and brewery industries in
Pucallpa. The proposed project is also expected to generate important
development effects in the Selva. At present, transport costs along the
corridor vary from 10% to 29% of the wholesale market price of the main
products of the region, which is very high (e.g., this proportion is 24% for
the sawn wood produced in Pucallpa and sold in Lima, and 26% for sawn wood
produced in Iquitos and transported to Lima). The production v9lumes in the
area of influence of the corridor are sizable (around 300,000 m per year
for processed forest products, or about one-half the national production).
1/   Although Iquitos has palletized its cargo already, considerable time
is lost in cargo handling at Iquitos because cargo coming from Pucallpa
and Yurimaguas is not palletized. With all three ports palletized,
economies would be generated in the entire system.



- 22 -
Although the developmental effect of the proposed project has not been quan-
tified, it is reasonable to assume that a reduction in transport costs of
the order contemplated in this project would generate considerable develop-
ment benefits in the Selva.
5.07      The proposed project is well justified, with an economic return
(ER) of 23% (excluding time benefits) for the road element, and 22% for the
port element. As indicated in Tables 7 and 10, the various items making up
both elements of the project are also individually justified, with ER's for
the road element (excluding time benefits) ranging from 9% to more than 30%
and first year benefits for the road element from 6% to more than 30%. For
the port element, ER's vary from 17% to 24% and first year benefits from 11%
to 20%. Sensitivity analyses have been carried out, with satisfact:ory results,
on the main parameters affecting the economic evaluation. Annex 3 gives de-
tails on the economic analysis for the various project components.
Maintenance Equipment
5.08      The project includes provision of the necessary equipment to main-
tain the Lima-La Oroya road sections of the corridor, within an overall pro-
gram of road maintenance. The economic evaluation of the maintenance pro-
gram, applying to the road sections financed under this project, already in-
cludes the effect of improved road maintenance. Benefits of the improved
maintenance of the remaining portions of the road, consisting of savings in
vehicle operating costs and deferment of pavement reconstruction costs, yield
an ER of 24% for the seven-year economic life estimated for the new equipment.
Economic Effects of Proposed Port Tariffs
5.09      In order to encourage development of the Selva, the Government has
exempted private investors working in the area from the payment of income
taxes and import duties on materials and equipment destined to be used within
the region. The 1974 Ley de Promocion de la Selva also exempted the Indian
communities from all other taxes such as property and inheritance taxes.
Moreover, the pricing of products and Government-provided services involves
a large measure of regional subsidies (i.e., gasoline prices, para. 3.08).
The beneficial effect of any individual subsidy or tax exemption upon the
development of the region is difficult to quantify. It is probable, however,
that the isolated economic effect of subsidizing port charges on the various
commodities moved through the ports is not significant. Nevertheless, the
combined effect of all measures has favored the establishment of new industry
in the region (brewery and paper at Pucallpa, sawmills at Iquitos and Pucallpa),
and it has been endorsed by the Bank as a valuable tool in promoting the
decentralization of economic activity from the Lima-Callao area, an objective
which ranks high in the Government's development priorities. Accordingly, the
present cross-subsidy between the sea ports and river ports would be continued,
but reduced by establishing tariffs for the river ports that would achieve a
working ratio of no more than 100. This would entail an increase in the
present tariffs at Iquitos (para. 6.09).



- 23 -
6. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   General
6.01      This chapter deals with the financial situation of ENAPU and the
expected financial performance of the three river ports included in the
project.
B.   Financial Policy
6.02      ENAPU's by-laws state that it will earn revenues sufficient to
cover its responsibilities, including the servicing of its debts. Revenues
presently include concession fees paid by the owner-operators of private
port facilities and collected by, and assigned to, ENAPU. These fees are not
related to services provided by ENAPU, but are paid for the right to operate
private ports in the national territory. When revenues exceed the budget
expenditures, as they have in the past, the excess cash is left on deposit
with the National Treasury (Banco de la Nacion). There is no formal dividend
policy, but, in 1972, when no capital expenditure budget for ENAPU was
approved, the excess cash was transferred to the Government. When the
Government finances new projects (built by the GDWT) with debt, as in the
case of the proposed river port component of the project, the debts con-
tracted are usually not passed on to ENAPU but are contributed as equity.
Consequently, the repayment of such debts is not necessarily reflected in the
costs of services provided.  Annex 6 details the Bank's past involvement
with the Government on these issues. The present situation regarding financ-
ial policy is unclear and should be rectified, but the Government lacks suffi-
cient knowledge of the problem to make a decision. Therefore, during negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that the Government will (a) carry out, by
December 31, 1976, a study to determine appropriate financial policies for
ENAPU including, inter alia, payment of dividends to the Government, use of
concession fees from private ports and assumption and servicing of all debts
contracted by the Government for port construction; (b) afford the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views on the terms of reference and the
findings of the study and (c) where appropriate, make such changes in the
financial policies for ENAPU as may be recommended by the study.
C.   Accounts and Audit
6.03      ENAPU's accounting system is generally acceptable, having been
designed by management consultants financed from the Bank's previous port
loan in 1966 (446-PE). Each port administrator is responsible for preparing
a series of very detailed monthly standard reports for the head office. The
system is partially computerized, but report preparation is lagging behind
management's requirements by several months, in some cases, and steps are
being taken to speed up the process. The system and its reports have recently
been improved to conform to national accounting standards promulgated by the
Government in 1973.



- 24 -
6.04      The Port Authority is presently employing a UNDP advisor to improve
its cost accounting system and to relate tariffs more closely to costs.
Another consultant has been contracted, with the assistance of the UK's Over-
seas Development Administration, to de3ign a maintenance costing system.
6.05      ENAPU's by-laws call for it co have its accounts audited by inde-
pendent auditors, and, although this practice had been followed in the past,
Management discontinued it in 1973 because of the high costs involved. Rela-
tively minor inconsistencies which appear to exist within the consolidated
financial statements could be correcte,l by competent auditors. An assurance
was obtained during negotiations that independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank will be employed.
D.   Past Earnings
6.06      Income statements and balance sheets for 1970-1974 are shown in
Table 13. The financial performance of ENAPU's public ports has deteriorated
over the last three years with net operating revenues declining from S/. 200
million in 1971 to a deficit of S/. 173 million in 1974. The primary reasons
for this situation are: (a) shipments of fishmeal have been drastically
reduced; (b) operating costs are increasing; and (c) tariffs have not been
increased since 1968. Private port concession fee income is not included
as an operating item because, although it is collected by ENAPU, it is not
related to services furnished by the Port Authority. Later included in the
concession fee category is the "falso muellaje" charge, collected primarily
at Iquitos on cargo moved over the river bank because the demand for the
pier exceeds its capacity. This cargo pays 50% of the charge for using the
pier, but receives no port services. In effect, deficits in net operating
revenues in 1972-1974 were cross-subsidized by the users of private ports.
E.   Present Financial Position
6.07      As of the end of 1974, ENAPU had net fixed assets of S/. 4,017
million (US$89 million) and almost S/. 400 million (US$8.9 million) in cash
deposits with the Treasury. Many operating assets were revalued in 1972 to
reflect a more realistic replacement cost, and a further revaluation is
planned for 1976. Current assets appear to be over six times current liabi-
lities, but ENAPU has little control over about half of these assets since
they are held by the Treasury and subject to budgetary control; long-term
debt, which includes the Bank's loan to Callao, is less than 11% of total
capital because of the Government's present policy of contributing new assets
as equity.
F.   Future Earnings and Cash Flow
6.08      A forecast of revenues and expenditures for ENAPU's public ports is
shown in Table 14; a corresponding forecast of traffic through these ports
based on ENAPU projections is shown in Table 15. Unit working costs were
inflated at 15% p.a. for 1975 and 1976, 10% p.a. for 1977/78, and 5% p.a.
for 1979/80, after taking into consideration possible wage increases and
productivity gains. The forecast indicates that considerable increases in
tariffs will be required to restore ENAPU's profitability and achieve an
operating rate of return on net fixed assets of about 6% in 1977. Such a



- 25 -
return will generate enough cash, together with borrowing, to cover all the
financial responsibilities presently assigned to ENAPU by the Government as
well as the construction of new ports presently assigned to GDWT (Table 16).
ENAPU is presently requesting a tariff increase which is expected to raise
total revenues by about 30% in 1976 and yield about 4% on operating assets
in this year. However, the previously mentioned assumptions on increases in
unit working costs will require further increases in tariffs to achieve the
goal of a 6% return by 1977 and the years that follow. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that ENAPU will revise the structure or level of its
tariffs to enable it to earn, after December 31, 1976, a 6% rate of return on
its fixed assets in operation, and, in calculating this return, any revenues
not related to services provided, such as private port concession fees, will
be excluded.
G.   Financial Performance of the River Ports
6.09      Por: services at Iquitos have usually been priced below their
marginal costs as part of the Government's subsidy policy for the Selva
Region (para. 5.09). As a result, the port's working ratio moved from
150 in 1970 to 190 in 1974. Cash operating deficits have been made up each
year by a combination of concession fees (falso muellaje) and subsidies from
seaports (Tables 17 and 18). It is presently estimated that tariffs would have
to be about doubled in 1975 in order to achieve a working ratio of 100 (para.
5.09), while only a 45% increase would be needed if falso muellaje revenues
are included in the calculation. During negotiations, agreement was reached
that tariffs at Iquitos will be maintained at a level sufficient to achieve
a working ratio of not more than 140 in 1976, 120 in 1977 and 100 in 1978,
excluding falso muellaje. Cash needs other than working costs (to be covered
by tariffs) and capital investment and interest payments (to be made by
Government) are expected to be minimal and could easily be covered by the
concession fee revenues.
6.10      The ports of Pucallpa and Yurimaguas presently have no facilities
or tariffs. Pro forma financial statements for both ports (Tables 19 and 20)
show that tariffs at Yurimaguas would have to be set about 25% higher than
Iquitos, and those for Pucallpa about 10% lower, to reach a working ratio of
not worse than 100. Depreciation for Pucallpa is higher than for the other
river ports because the effective life of its pier has been conservatively
assumed to be five years, in view of the risk of the Ucayali River changing
its course (para. 4.06), but cash needs other than for capital investment
and working costs are minor.
6.11      The three river ports function as a closed system (para. 5.05) since
most of the traffic generated at each port feeds the others. For this reason,
during negotiations, agreement was reached that the tariffs at Iquitos, Pucallpa
and Yurimaguas would be maintained at a level such that the working ratio of the
three ports as a group, excluding falso muellaje fees, would reach 100 by 1979
and progressively improve thereafter. The financial subsidies which would
result from this policy are equal to depreciation and the pro forma interest
on the World Bank Loan. To eliminate this subsidy would require an increase
in the port tariffs of about 100% in the case of Iquitos, about 90% in the
case of Yurimaguas and 140% for Pucallpa over the proposed levels needed to
attain working ratios of 100. Such increases would likely result in undesirable
diversion of traffic and would not improve the ports' financial position.



- 26 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following points:
(a)  with the Government
(i)  To start implementation within nine months from the
effective date of the proposed loan of a nationwide
program for maintenance of roads (para. 3.16);
(ii)  Expansion of the present technical assistance to include
the revision of existing accounting procedures and bud-
getary allocations with a view toward improving existing
practices regarding the rental of maintenance equipment
(para. 3.16);
(iii) Preparation, not later than June 30, 1976, of a study
to determine the ways and means to increase the partici-
pation of ENAPU in the planning, design and execution of
all future port works; affording the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views on the conclusions of the
study; and carrying out of a plan of action prepared on
the basis of such conclusions (para. 3.22).
(iv)  Financing and implementation of a maintenance program for
the Lima-Pucallpa road within the context of a nationwide
maintenance program (see (i) above) (para. 4.09);
(v)  Contracting, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, of consultants to carry out studies included in the
proposed project and to help supervise civil works and
procurement (para. 4.11);
(vi)  Cost estimates for improvement of feeder roads (para. 4.14);
(vii) Allocation in the 1975/76 biennial budget of the local funds
required for the financing of the proposed project, as well
as subsequent allocations in future biennial budgets (para.
4.19);
(viii)  Disbursement for the Aguaytia-Neshuya section to be conditioned
on designs and cost estimates acceptable to the Bank (para.
4.20);
(ix)  Appointment of a project coordinator with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.23);
(x)  Procurement procedures (para. 4.24);



- 27 -
(xi)  Procurement procedures and preparation of required detailed
engineering for execution of feeder road improvements
(para. 4.25);
(xii)  Supervision of civil works on feeder roads by consultants
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para.
4.25);
(xiii)  Carrying out, by December 31, 1976, of a study to c-termine
appropriate financial policies for ENAPU, the Bank to be
afforded a reasonable opportunity to exchange views on the
terms of reference and findings of the study, and changes
to be made as recommended by the study, where appropriate
(para. 6.02);
(b)  with ENAPU
(xiv)  Independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, to be
employed (para. 6.05);
(xv) Structure or level of tariffs to be revised by ENAPU to
enable it to earn, after December 31, 1976, a 6% rate of
return on its fixed assets in operation; any revenues
not related to services provided to be excluded (para. 6.08);
(xvi)  Tariffs at Iquitos to be maintained at a level sufficient
to achieve a working ratio of no more than 140 in 1976,
120 in 1977 and 100 in 1978, excluding falso muellaje
fees (para. 6.09); and
(xvii)  Tariffs at Iquitos, Pucallpa and Yurimaguas to be maintained
at a level such that the working ratio of the three ports as
a group, excluding falso muellaje fees, would reach 100
by 1979 and progressively improve thereafter (para. 6.11).
7.02      Retroactive financing of foreign costs incurred after July 1974 on
two studies related to the project and on the works being executed by SIMA,
estimated at US$340,000 and US$1.4 million respectively, is recommended (para.
4.21).
7.03      The proposed project is recoimmended for a Bank loan of US$76.5
million (including 50% of interest during construction, estimated at US$7.1
million) to the Peruvian Government for a term of 25 years, including a
grace period of five years. A project agreement would be signed with ENAPU,
based on agreements xiv through xvii above.
December 15, 1975






TABLE 1
PERU
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Composition of Highway Network
(Kilometers)
Year      Paved      Gravel      Improved      Unimproved     'Total
1965      ,33h        6,449       11,6h5         20,389        42,817
1966      4,547       7,114       13,291         20,607        h5,559
1967      4,683       7,860       13,430         21,211        h7,184
1968     L,868        8,391       13,923         22,501        49,683
1969       n.a.
1970      4,858       8,646       13,707         22,838        50,049
1971      4,961      10,057       1h,691         20,6h4        50,353
1972       n.a.
1973      5,017       9,963       1L,732         20,959        50,671
Source: MTC
September 1974.



TABLE 2
PERU
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Vehicle Registration
Year         Automobiles          Trucks         Buses         Total
1950            31,98h           ;24,030         1,h53        57,467
1955            54,415            s43,616        5,530       103,561
1960            79,431            ,8,118         7,050       144,599
1965           137,690 /1         77,007         6,899       221,596 /L
1966           159,290 ./1        89,607         7,299       256,196 /£
1967           146,965            52,268        10,311       209,544 /2
1968           156,673            64,692        12,762       234,127 /2
1969           187,962            91,278        17,66L       296,904 /2
1970           194,268            91,278        17,664       303,210 /2
1971           207,194            94,169        17,4L7       318,810ZL
1972           226,376            98,595        18,947       343,218LL
1973           246,976           103,229        20,577       370,782/2
Annual Rate of Growth (1950-1973): 8.5%t
P :-r.nb;ly i.n-^l;Id-  'rY.cl-,-de.   h' d' nrv(- pt .  yc  id f^'n  Th7-    -
/2  These figures differ from other sources and must be used with reservations.
Source: 1950-1963: Report lio. WH-155a, Volume 11, Transportation. December 1965.
1964 and 1967-1973:  Planning Office, Land Transport Directorate, MTC.
1965-1966: Peru, Bank Economic Mission of 1970. Transportation, Vol. II.
September 1974.



TABLE 3
PERU
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Motor Fuel Consumption
(000 Cubic Meters)
Year                 Gasoline               Diesel Fuel/
1960                    87106                   503.5
1961                    935.0                   545.0
1962                  1,031.0                   66704
1963                  1,059.3                   727.8
1964                  1,155.2                   832.7
1965                  1,276.1                   794.8
1966                  1,h17.5                   870.6
1967                  1,534.0                   905.6
1968                  1,537o2                   969.0
1969                  1,552.6                   987.9
1970                  1,615.L                 1,075.9
1971                  1,714.0                 1,015.8
1972                  1,809.0                 1X02507
1973                  1,745.3                   938.7L
/1  Includes only motor vehicle users.
72  Preliminary results subject to change.
Source:  Estad.fstica Petrolera, Marketing Division, PETROPERU.
September 1974.



TABLE 4
P ERU
APPRAISAL OF THE LIKA-AAZOKI TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PF)JECT
Highway Exienditures and Road User (ontributions
(Millions of current Soles)
1/                 ,
1966     19S7     °68 :    ?    1971 9
A. Iihntures
Administration                  99.5    i?7.3    156.7   I 12    200.0    230.6    25i> 0
Studies                         IJ1.2    37.1      23.1    L3.6    30.0        28.7    2?3.,O
Constructicn                 1585.9   2n16.6    837.7   662.2    873.8   1027.0   9'3 0UO
Maintenance                   156.7    159.6   T.68.5   127.5    310.6    428.3    555-9
Epipment                      466.8    370.8        6.3    -         7h.8     -         20.:
Studies of urban trans-
port & traffic                                                      10.1     18.0    2U.4
ORDEZA                         -                         -;--                 4o.5    mo 2;) o0
2350.1   2831.    1192.3   960.5   1499.3   1773.1   2973.3
B. Road User Contributions
Excise Taxes                             19.0      37.0    42.h      67.2     57.7      55.0
Import Duities                          940.3    466.3   672.9    368.9    702.2    561,1
Gasoline Taxes                          4147.2   1122.5  1152.9   1168.4   2293.6   237 0 3
Vehicle Registration,
Licensing, Road Use, etc.              100.2    1214.4   152.7    181.0    139.5    1. .2
Tolls                                    16.8      19.0    22:--    -3929     57.0
1523.5   1769.2  20143.7   1825.14   3250.0   >
1/  For lack of better statistics for this year, the above fis..res, repre3eiting est4"'-os
of the Bank economic mission which visited Peru in April.1-.rJ 1970, were used (12if .
Report WH-206a).
2/  1972 Transport Sector Mission estimates.
/  Includes the Ministry of Transport and Comnnunications, ORD;'ZA and the .Maintenancs         ?
ment Agency (SFZM).  It excludes feecler roads fiioanced by the Nation2l FPmnd of Ecf--, i.
Develo ment (FIDE) and S1hIWAOS, and expenditures of the ro_dc transpo.qt re,,ulation g..ency
(ORENT) 
4/ Comite de Reconstruccion y Rehabilitacion de la Zcna Afectl,a&a   This azency invc-:t.-J
mainly in feasibility studies and road construction, but *, X detailed breakdown is
unknown.
Sources:  Bank Economic Mission Report, Transport Soctor Reviu: (Draft); June 8, 197C;
Volume II, Table 2.10.
Bank Economic Report 1I--206a, March 31, 1971; Table 5l13
Ministries of Econo-my and Finance, and Tr-ansport Cc;ications, ?eru.
October 1974



TABLE 5
PERS
LIHA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Penrvian River Fleet Operating in the Project ZonE
Rang   of Dimnsions                 -     Number
Length        Draft                            In          Under
Type of Vessels            m             mi                          Operation  Construction
1. Sea-going vessels           60-100         4. -5.5     la200-1,600          3
(downstream of Iquitos)
2. River boats                 14-45          1.25-2,5        10-200          28             4
3. Tugs                        12-30          1.00-2.5        30-850 (HP)     69             7
4. Dry cargo barges            12-55          1.5-2.5         20-800          92            20
5. Tank barges                 14-45          1.5-2.5         20-730          26             7
6. Motor boats                 N/A            1.0-2.7         10-30
256           38
/1 Gross Registered Tons.
Source:  DGWT and Wright Engineers' feasibility study, January 1973.
October 1974.



PERU
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZON TRAhSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Lima-Ptcaillna Road Sections
Troqf'ric Flc7-ys (A-ADT-)
Traffic (AADT(T
Section            Subsection              Lengthi                            Estimated 1978            Annual Growth (%)
(Km)    1964    i        Total    Cars   Buses  Trucks    1964-73  1973-97
1. San Mateo-     San Mateo-Morococha              35    1,000   1,900    2,480   1,260    220   l,000         7.4        5.5
Morococha
2. La Oroya-      La Oroya-Desvio Tarma            21      710   1,500    2,250      870    280   1,110        8.6        8.5
Huanuco       Desvio Tarma-Cerro de Pasco    96        340     620       910     250     100     560       7.0        8.0
Cerro de Pasco-SalcachupAn      57     n.a.      530      710     160       50     500       5.2 /.   6.o
SalcachupAn-Ambo                36      240 /2  350       470     130      40      300       4.3       6.0
Ambo-Huinuco                    24     n.a.      650      850    4oo        50     400       5.0 /1    6.0
3. Aguaytfa-      AguaytSa-Neshuya                106      110     230 13   300       75      25      200      6.6/4      8.o/5
Neshuya
4. Pucallpa       Access road and Streets           9     n.a.   2,400   3,500   2,380       400     720       10.0       8.0
port streets
5. Feeder Roads   Tambo del Sol-Huachon            9(     n.a.      41       55       10       2      43        n.a.      6.0
hu'anuco-Churubamba             20     n.a.       30      40       10       2      28        n.a.      5.0
1/ Estimated 1.969-1973
j Estimated
3/  Source:  MTC and SAUTI's feasibility study , September, 1974, and Vera and Moreno Feasibility Study,
March, 1975.
4/   1964/75
5/   1975/97
June 1975



PERU
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Economic Evaluation Results of Road Sections
Economic Evaluation Based on Best Estimates -
Financial /-    Economic /2        Without Time Benefits L4  Witl  Time BenefiLs /L    Sensitivity Analysis (ER)
Length         cost              cost
Section                        Subsection                (km)      (/ million)       (S/ million)         ER       FYB                 ER       FYB           Cost + 15%    Benefit - 25%
1.  San Mateo-Morococha       San Mateo-Morococha                   35           225.9            168.3          >30       > 30                 30        30              >730            -730
2.  La Oroya-Huanuco          La Oroya-Desvio Tarma                 21            368.7           274.7            25        18                >27        20                23               22
Desvio Tarma-Cerro de Pasco          96            619.2           461.3           >29         23               >30         25             >27               ,>25
Cerro de P.-Salcachupan              57            595.4           443.6             19        14                 20        15                17              16
Salcachupan-Ambo                     36            257.7           192.0             20        15                 20        16                17               16
Ambo-Huanuco                         24            168.9            125.8            19        15                 21        16                18               16
Total             234          2,009.9          1,497.4            24        18                 26        20                22               21
3.  Aguaytia-Neshuya          Aguaytia-Neshuya                     106            955.7           711.9             9         6                 10         6                 8                7
4.  Pucallpa Streets                                                 9             76.9            57.3             18       11                 18         11                15              14
5.  Feeder Roads              Tambo del Sol-Huachon                 90             95.9            71.4            18        13                 20        14                17               15
Huanuco-Churub-amba                  20             32.2             24.1            10         8                 13         9                10                9
6.  Total                     San Mateo-Morococha
La Oroya-Pucallpa         La Oroya-Huanuco    )                384         3 268.4          2 434.9            23        16                 25        18                22               20
Aguaytia-Neshuya      )                           '                                  -        -                  -          -                 -
Pucallpa Streets
Total All Road Sections                                            494          3,396.5         2,530.4             23        16                25         18               21               20
/1   Based on 1974 cost estimates including physical contingencies and project supervision, updated to June 1975.
/2   Financial cost net of taxes
/3   Basis for best estimates: (i) annual traffic growth rates per Table 5; (ii) costs and benefits in 1974 prices; (iii) construction period, three years (1976-1978);
(iv) economic life of project, 20 years for 1. through 4. above, and 10 years for the feeder roads.
/4   Savings in vehicle operating costs and maintenance costs.
/5   Time benefits due to reductions in travel times were computed for all sections, excepting Pucallpa streets, based on the average regional
income of people travelling for business purposes.
Source: SAUTI's Feasibility Study and MTC's Feasibility Study, modified by the appraisal mission.
June 1975



TABLE 8
PERU
AFFiRAISAL OF THE LD4A-A1~L4ZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
2esign Standards for tne Lima-Pucallpa Road Sections
Type of Terrain
Design Elements                 Unit           Mountainous      Rolling       Fla
Design Speed                    km/h               60             80           100
Maximum grade                     %                 8%             6%            %
Minimum radius of curvature       m                60-           150           300
Platform width                    m               8.40          8.40          8.8o
Pavement width                    m               6.00          6.00          6.oc
Shoulder width                    m               1.20          1.20          1.20
1/ Reduced in special cases
Source: Consultants, KTIC
October i-;7k,.



PERU
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
River Ports Traffic
Traffic Volumes (me Tons)/l                Annual Rate of Growth
Actual        Estimated                                %
112
Port         1964i        1971      1976       1977      1978    I2istori1         1975-1992
Iquitos      74,900    108,300   16o,ooo  170,300   181,200          5.7               6.h
Pucallpa     36,700     78,000   104,300   112,600   121,700       11.6               7.2
Yurimaguas   11,400     20,5oo    30,8o0    34,50)o    38,600        8.5               8.0
1/ Excluding petroleum in bulk.
2/ Based on the following periods for which data were available:
Iquitos = 1962/1971
Pucallpa = 1963/1971
Yurimaguas= 1964/1971
Source:  Livesey and Henderson updating study Jan-March 1975.
June 1975



PERU
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
River Ports
Economic Evaluation Results
Financial       Economic       Economic Evaluation       Sensitivity Analysis (ER)
Port                Cost            Cost      Based on Best Estimates
(S/ million)   (S/ million)        ER         FYB         Cost + 151%  Benefits-25%
Iquitos               407.9          285.2           2/11      19                2L1L          ieli
Pucallpa               197.1         137.8           245       20                21/1          19/1
12/2                         9/2           6/2
Yurimaguas              91.5          64.0           17/1      11                14 l2f-
Total 3 Ports          696.5         487.0           24/1      18                21/1          19/1
22/3                       19/3           17/3
/1  Based on a 15-year economic life.
/2  Based on a 5-year economic life, and assuming appropriate salvage values for various components.
/3  Based on a 15-year economic life for' Iquitns Pnd YirriimaguPs, and a 5-year economic life for Pucailpa.
,Soirce: Livesey and Henderson's updating study, January-March 1975, modified by the appraisal mission.
December 1975



PERU
LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Comparison of Alternative
Routes Between Lima, Tarapoto/ and Iquitos
Overland Routes                          Distance (km)            Travel Time (hours)&                          Transport Costs (soles/kg)
Road   River   Total  Road                 River   Total   Road   Transfer an/d   River   Total&    Total (t)
1.  Central Corridor                                                                                           insurance L L
(a) Lima-Tingo Maria-Pucallpa-
Yurimaguas-Tarapoto                973   1,535   2,508    57       104        128      289     2.9       o.6          1.5     5.u        7.9
(b) Lima-Tingo Marla-Pucailpa-
Iquitos                            840   1,145   1,985    46       104          95     245     2.5       0.5          1.0    4h0         6.5
2.  Northern Corridor
(a) Lima-Chiclayo-Olmos-
Tarapoto                         1,451      _     1,457    75        2                  77     3.6       0.1           -      3.7        4.5
(b) Lima-Chiclayo-Obnos-
Tarapoto -Durimaguas-
Iquitos                          1,590    '690   2,280    78       104         58      240     4.7       o.6          o.6     5.9        8.3
16
3. North-Central Corridor
(a) Lima-Tingo Maria-
Tarapoto                         1,020     -      1,02o    52        2        -         54     3.1       0.1           -      3.2        3.7
(b) Lima-Tingo Maria-Tara-
poto-Yurimnaguas-Iquitos         1,153     690   1,843    64       104         58      226     3.5        o.6         o.6     4.7        7.0
i/  Tarapoto is the agricultural and coamercial center of the area served by the Port of Yurimaguas.
21 Baseo on average speeds of 45 kph for flat paved roads, 35 kph for mountainous paved or flat gravel roads and 30 kph for
mountainous unpaved roads. River travel times are based on a speed of 12 kph considered average for the upstream and downstream
trips. Based on experience, one hour has been added to every five, and seven to every period exceeding 10 hours, to accourt for
truck stops for meals and rest of the crew.
3/ Including loading and uploading of cargo, at origin, destination and transfer ports, and waiting time for ships at transfer
port. Equal loading, unloading and waiting times at Pucallpals and Yurimagua's ports have been assumed.
4/ Without time value.
J Assuming a value of 10 S/metric ton-hr to travel time.
A/ Jlthough this corridor presents the minimum distances and travel times to Iquitos and Tarapoto it is unlikely that it becomes
passible in the next decade, particularly due to the three crossings of the Huallaga River, where expensive, long bridges are
unjustified and ferry crossings are hazardous due to the rapids in the river.
Underlined figures represent minimum values.
Source: L. Berger - SAE Feasibility Study of Olmos-Corranquemado Road. September 1974.
October 1974



TABLE 12
PERU
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs /1
(Economic Costs: Soles/Km)
Cost (Soles/Kin
Type of vehicle      Type of Road     Proposed Road      Existing Road      Savings
Car           Level-tangent          1.16               1.45            0.29
Rolling                1.42               1.82           0.40
Mountainous            1.86              2.40            0.54
Bus           Level-tangent          4.10               6.00           190
Rolling                5.20               7.60           2.40
Mountainous            7.00             10.20            3.20
Truck         Level-tangent          4.58               7.14            2.56
Rolling                5.60               8.70           3.10
Mountainous            7.30             11.40            4.10
/1 Includes drivers' salaries for buses and trucks.
Source: SAUITI's, SAE-Berger's and MTC's feasibility studies, adjusted by the
appraisal mission
September 1974



TABLE 13
ERU
AkfRAISAL OF A LIRA-AMAZON TRANSkFORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
ENAAU Financial Statements
1970-1974 BALANCE SHEET
(S/. million)
1970        1971         1972         1973/1      1974
Current Assets                           503          824          895         852          840
Less Current Liabilities                  45           61           96         117          135
Net Working Capital                      7             v           799         7§3          705
Operating assets                       2,936        2,961        3,815       4,092        4,425
Less accumulated depreciation                       __Q7J  (232)  (933)     (1,111)      (1,308)
Net operating assets                   2,829        2,729                    2,901        3,117
Land                                     490          490          545         545          545
Work in Progress                          25          138          348          459         355
Total Assets                           3,802        4,120       4,574        4,720        4,722
Long Term Debt                           191          237          301         400          520
Retained Earnings                        189          366          442          184          64
Government Equity                      3,422        3,517        3,831       4,136        4,138
Total Liabilities and Capital          3,802        4,120       4,574        4,720        4,722
Current Ratio                           11.2         13.5          9.3         7.3          6.2
Debt/Equity Ratio                       5/95         6/94         7/93        8/92        11/89
INCOME STATEMENT
ENAPU REVENUES                          946.7       1,154.4      1,243.6     1,181.3      1,376.6
Working Costs                           735.5         829.3      1,120.8     1,058.5      1,352.6
Depreciation                            1C7.4         124.9        146.8        177.6       197.0
Total Costs                              729          954.2      1,267.6     1,236.1      1,549.6
Operating Surplus                       104.8         200.2        (24.0)       (54.9)     (173-0)
Interest                                 16.4          11.6          7.2        17.6         19.8
Concession fees                         100.4         105.5        106.9       125.7        101.0
Net Income                                            294.1         75.7        53.2        (91.5)
Working Ratio                            78            72           90           90          98
Operating Ratio                          89            83          102          105         113
Return on Net Fixed Assets                3.7           7.2          -            -            -
/1 Figures for 1973 and 1974 are unaudited.
Source: ENAk'U
July 1975



TABLE 14
PERU
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR P±tOJECT
ENAPU Financial Statements
1975-1980 BALANCE SHEET
(S/. million3
1975      1976      1977       1978      1979      1980
Current assets                          978     1,045      1,271     1,507      1,554     1,910
Less current liab:Llities               148       160        172       184        197       210
Net working capital                      30W               1,099     1,323      1,357     1,700
Operating assets                      4,825     5,825      6,825     8,105      9,505    10,205
Less accumulated depreciation        (1 517)   (1 741)   (1 995)   (2 283)   (2,611)   (2,971)
Net fixed assets in operation         3,3      X                                6,94      7,234
Land                                    545       545        645       645        745       745
Work in progress                        3         45         405       355        50>       358
Total assets                          5,038      6,o69     6,979     8,145     9,501    10,037
Long term debt                          894     1,579      2,145     2,128      2,503     2,522
Retained Earnings                         6        252       596       999      1,48v     1,997
Government  equity                    4,138     4,i        4,238     5,1       5,518      5,518
Total liabilities and capital         5,038     6,06y      6,yr9     8, 145     U,5(Y    l,u7
Current ratio                            4.6       4.5        5.4       6.2        5.9       7.1
Debt/equity ratio                     18/82     26/74      31/69     26/74      26/74     25/75
INCOME STATEMENT
ENA'U REVENUES                        1,725     2,405      2,909     3,376      3,794     4,139
Working costs                         1,667      2,030     2,365     2,739      3,o52     3,345
Depreciation                            209        224       254       288        328       360
Total costs                                     2,4 2                3,027                3,705
Operating surplus                      (151)       151       290       349        414       434
Interest                                -32       -S0       -110      -120       -117      -113
Concession F"ees                        125       155        164       174        184       l5o
Net Income                             73w)                            4 07   3 4 40 517
Revenue per ton (soles) 1/              237        316       373       409        434       453
Working cost per ton (soles) 2/         239        275       303       33e        34V       jo6
Working ratio                            97        84         81        81         so        8±
Operating ratio                         109         94        90        90          o        91
Return on net fixed assets               -        4.1        6.0       6.u        o.u       b.0
I/ Revenues divided by non-petroleum tons handled Table 15
2/ Working costs divided by non-petroleum tons handleu Teble 15
Source: Appraisal Mission Estimates
June 1975



PERU
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
ENAPU
Traffic Statistics Through all Public Ports (1969-1980)
Volume in Metric '000 Tons
----------------------Forecast.----------------.----__
1969      1970       1971       1972      1973       1974       1975       1976      1977       1978       1979       1980
Sugar and Molasses (export)           239.0      369.0     478.4    436.5        425.3      382       400        400        400        400       400        400
Cereals and Grains (import)           771.7      685.1      762.1    859.6       997.3      965     1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000     1,000
Minerals (ENAPU Ports only)         1,462.0 1/1,386.0   1,608.7  1,843.6    1,668.4 1/1,922         2,000      2,140      2,290      2,450     2,620      2,805
Fishmeal                            1,831.0   2,098.0   1,994.0  1,805.0         329.0      624       800        900      1,000      1,100     1,225      1,225
Petroleum                           5,067.9   5,640.6   5,832.7  5,525.6    5,928.5   6,652         7,185      7,760      8,380      9,050     9,775    10,555
General                             2,044.4   1,863.3   1,892.1  2,166.7    2,274.5   2,615         2,775      2,940      3         3,300      3,500      3,710
Total ENAPU                     11,416.0  12,042.0  12,568.0 12,636.5   11,623.0  13,160    14,160    15,140    16,185    17,300    18,520    19,695
1/ Estimate for 1969 and 1973
Source:  For years 1969-1974 ENAPU Statistics
For years 1975-1980 ENAPV Forecast
Minerals 7% pa
Petroleum 8% pa
General 6% pa
Ju-ne 1975                                                                                                                                                  v



PERU
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
ENAPU Summary Cash Flow 1971-1980
(SI. million)
CASH FLOW                      1971        1972         1973 1/      1974 ./     1975         1976         1977         1978         1979         1980
Funds Available                                     ----------------Actual------------------
Generated by ENAPU
Gross operating revenues                     1,154.4      1,243.6      1,181.3     1,376.6      1,725        2,405        2,909        3,376       3,794        4,139
Less working expenses                          829.3      1,120.8      1,058.5     1,352.6      1.667        2,030        2,365        2,739       3,052        3,345
Subtotal                             325.1       122.8        122.8         24.0         58         375          544          637          742          794
Borrowing                                             61.9        107.1       121.8        146.0        439         757          666          103          535          189
Government Equity Contribution                         -           2/          71.0          2           -           -            -           780          800           -
Total Funds Available                                387.0       229.9        315.6        172           _T-7                  T71  M  1,     520        2,077          983
Funds Required
Dividend                                                -            -         75.7           -            -           -           -            -            -             -
Interest                                              11.6          7.2        17.6         19.8         32          60          110          120          117          113
Repayments                                            15.9        43.2         22.8         54.2         65          72          100          120          160          170
Capital Expenditure
ENAPU Internal                                  139.0       251.4        318.2       229          400        1,000        1,000          500       1,000          700
Government River Ports  (GDWT)                  -            -            -           -            -            -            -           780           -           -
Government Other (GDWT)                          -           2/           71.0        _            _            _          _              -          800           -
Subtotal                             139.0       251.4        389.2       229          400        1,000        1,000                                    700
Total Funds Required                                 166.5       301.8        505.3       303.0        497        1,132        1,210        1,520        2,077          983
Difference                                     220.5        (71.9)      (189.7)     (131)           0            0            0            0            0           °
Add concession fee revenue                      105.5       106.9        125.7       101.0        125          155          164          174         184          196         Ics
Increase (or decrease) in Working Capital    305.0           35.0        (64.0)      (30)         125          155          164          174         184          196
1/ Figures Unaudited.
2/' Revaluation of assets equal to SI. million 314.0 not shown because it is not a cash transaction.
Source: For years 1971-1974 ENAPU Annual Reports
For years 1975-1980 Appraisal Mission Estimates
June 1975



PERUl
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZOTi TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
PORT OF IQUITOS
Financial Statements 1970-1980
(SI. million)
INCOME STATEMENT
-~~--------------------Actual--------------________
/1          /1
1970         1971         1972        1973         1974         1975         1976         1977         1978         1979          1980
Revenues                                       7.0          8.5         11.6         16.0         18.7         21.0        32.1         41.7          51.5         53.4         55.3
Less working costs                            10.5         14.4         19.6         22.1         35.5         40.8        45.7          50.0         51.5         53.4         55.3
Working revenue                               (3.5)        (5.9)        (8.0)        (6.1)       (16.8)       (19.8)       (13.6)        (8.3)                      -            -
Less depreciation                               .6           .6          2.5          2.8          3.1          4.0          6.0        25.2          25.2         25.2         25.2
operating surplus                             (4.1)        (6.5)       (10.5)        (8.9)       (19.9)       (23.8)       (19.6)      (33.5)        (25.2)       (25.2)       (25.2)
Concession revenues                             .7           .6          1.8          2.0          5.9          7.0          7.0          3,6          4.0          4.5          5.0
Less World Bauk interest (proforma)             -           -             -            -            -            -            -         26.0          26.0         26.0         26.0
Net income                                    (3.4)        (5.9)        (8.7)        (6.9)       (14.0)       (16.8)       (12.6)       (55.9)       (47.2)       (46.7)       (46.2)
Revenue par ton (soles)                         -            -         115          119          131          140         200          245           284          277          269
Working cost per ton (soles)                    -            -         194          164          249          271          286          294          284          277          269
Working ratio                                150          169          169          138          190          194          140          120          100          100          100
CASH FLOW
Funds Available
Social Security                            -            -            -            -          2.0            .3          .3           .3           .4            .3           .5
World Bank Loan (proforma)                              -            -            -            -        123.0        183              -            -            -            -
Government equity                          -            -            -          7.4           -          63.8         83.4           -            -             -            -
Concession revenue                         -            -            -          2.0          5.9          7.0          7.0          3.6          4.0          4.5           5.0
ENAPU operating subsidy                    -            -            -          2.6         29.8         10.8          6.6         34.7         21.6         21.2          20.5
Total                                                                12.0         37.7       204.9        280.3         38.6         26.0          26.0         26.0
Funds Required
Debt service (proforma)                    -            -            -            -            -            -           -          26.0         26.0         26.0          26.0
Other assets                               -            -            -            .4         4.0           -            -           2              -            -            -
Capital investment                         -            -            -          3.5         13.9        186.8        266.4           -             -            -            -
Working deficit                            -            -            -           6.1         16.8        19.8         13.6          8.3            -            -            -
Total                           -            -            -          10.0         34.7       206.6        280.0         36.3         26-.          26.0         26.0
Increase (or decrease) in working capital       -                                     2            3.0         (1.7)          .3          2.3                        -            -
Source: For 1970-1974 ENAPU Annual Reports
For 1975-1980 Appraisal 1Mission Estimates
June 1975
/1 Uneudited



PERU
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
PORT OF IQUITOS
Balance Sheet 1972-1980
(SI. million)
1972      1973/      197  -    1975        1976       1977       1978       1979       1980
Current assets                          1.1        2.8        6.1       4.5         5.9       9.2        9.2        9.2        9.2
Less current liabilities                 .9         .6         .9         .9       2.0        3.0        3.0        3.0        3.0
Net working capital                      .2        2.2        5.2        3.6       3.9        6.2        6.2        6.2        6.2
Work in progress                         .8         .9        9.5      191.1       100        -         -          -          -
Land                                    8.6        8.6        8.7       8.7       12.0       12.0       12.0       12.0       12-0
Operating assets                       66.6       70.0       75.2      80.2      524.4      534.4      534.4      534.4      534.4
Less accumulated depreciation         (24.8)    (27.7)    (31.5)    (35.5)    (42.5)    (67.7)    (92.9)   (118.1)    (143.3)
Net fixed assets                       51.2       51.8       61.9     244.5      503.9      478.7      453.5      428.3      403.1
Other                                   4.8        5.2        9.2       9.2       10.2       12.2       12.2       12.2       12.2
Total assets                           56.2       59.2       76.3     257.3      518.0      497.1      471.9      446.7      421.5
World Bank Loan (proforma)              -          -          -       123.0      306.0      306.0      306-0      306-0      306-0
Social Security                         2.5        2.5       4.5        4.7        5.0        5.3        5.7        6.0        6.5
Subsidy account (proforma)             20.7       23.3      52.0       62.8       69.4      104.1      125.7      146.9      167.4
ENAPU-Equity                           50.5       57.9       57.9     121.7      205.1      205.1      205.1      205.1      205.1
Accumulated losses (proforma)         (17.5)    (24.3)    (38.1)    (54.9)    (67.5)   (123.4)   (170.6)   (217.3)   (263.5)
Total Liabilities and Capital          56.2      59.2       76.3      257.3      518.0      497.1      471.9      446.7      421.5
/1 Unaudited
Source: For years 1972-1974 ENAWU Annual Report
For years 1975-1980 Appraisal Mission Estimates
June 1975



AePRAISAL OF A LIMA AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
MORT OF PUCALLPA
Forecast Financial Statements 1978-1983
(S/. million)
INCOME STATENENT
1978        1979         1980        1981         1982         1983
Revenues                                 30.4        32.9         35.2         38.0        41.0         44L3
Working costs                            31.7        32.9         34-6         36.4        38-3         40.3
Working revenue                          (1.3)        -                         1.6         2.7          4.0
Depreciation                             33.6        33.6         33.6         33-6           6         33.6
Operating revenue                       (34.9)      (33-6)       (33-0)       (327T)      ( 9)         (29-6)
World Bank interest (proforma)           12.8        12.8         12.8         12.4        11.9         11
Net income                              (77)        (06T(.)      (44.4)       (=2.I)  (4O.9)
Revenue in soles per-ton                250         250          250         250          250          250
Working costs in soles per-ton          260         250          246         239          234          228
Working ratio                           104         100           98          96           93           91
CASH FLOw
Funds Available
Working  revenue                    (1-3)         -            .6         1.6          2.7          4.0
Operating subsidy                   15.1        12.8        12.2         10.8         10.2          7.3
Equity                                                                               168.0          _
Total                         13.8        12.8         12.8         12.4        180.9        11.3
Funds Required
Capital investment                   -            -            -           -         168.0           -
Additions to working capital        1.0           -            -           -           1.0           -
World Bank interest (proforma)    12.8          12.8         12.8        12.4         11.9         11.3
Total                         13.8        12.8         12.8         12.4        180.9        11.3
Source: Appraisal Mission Estimates
June 1975



APPRAISAL OF A LINA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORKIDOR PROJECT
k'ORT OF YURIMkGUAS
Forecast Financial Statements 1978-1983
(S7. million)
INCOME STATEMENT
1978        1979         1980         1981        1982         1983
Traffic forecast ('000 tons)             38.6        43.3         49.6         52.6         55.7        59.1
Revenues                                 13.5         15.1        17.4         18.4         19.5         20.7
Working costs                            14.0         15.0        15.5         16.2.        16.8         17.3
Working revenue                           (.5)         T111 1.9                                         _T IT
Depreciation                              7.4          7.4         7.4          7.4         774
Operating Revenue                        (7-9)        (-73)TM                                           70)
Interest                                  6           6            6            5.8          5.4         5.0
Net Income                              (13-9)      (13.3)       (11.5)       (Ti7)        (10.1)       T
Revenue soles per-ton                   350         350          350          350          350         350
Working cost soles per-ton              362         347          312          308          302         293
Working ratio                           104         100           89           88           86          84
CASH FLOW
Funds Available
Working revenue                      (.5)         .1          1.9          2.2         2.7          3.4
Operating subsidy                   8.5          7.9          4.1          3.6         3.7          1.6
Total                          8.0          8.0         6.0          5.8          6.4          5.0
Funds Required
Additions to working capital        2.0           -            -            -          1.0           -
World Bank interest (proforma)      6.o          6.0          6.o 508                  5.4          5.0
Total                          8.0          6.0         6.o          5.8          6.4          5.0
Source: Appraisal Missiun Estimateb
June 1975



ANNEX 1
Page 1
PERU
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Previous Bank-Financec Transport Projects
1.        Two highway loans were made with road maintenance as their main
objective, 127-PE and 300-PE in 1955 and 1961, totaling US$5 million and
US$10 million, respectively. Although the first road maintenance project
ran into several difficulties, the maintenance effort was continued and
expanded with considerable success under the second maintenance project.
Additionally, the road reconstruction loan (706-PE) of 1970 (para. 5)
also includes the provision of technical assistance to the Ministry of
Transport and Communications (MTC) for improving maintenance and betterment
operations in the country.
2.        Three highway loans have helped to reconstruct and improve the
La Oroya-Pucallpa road; the first two have been plagued by difficulties
from the outset. The first (271-PE, US$5.5 million) helped finance recon-
struction and paving of about 166 km of the Aguaytia-Pucallpa road, the most
eastern section of the 800-km road linking Lima on the coast with Pucallpa
on the Ucayali River, in the upper Amazon River system. Because of extremely
difficult soils and climatic conditions and lack of experience, the road
was only 80% completed when loan funds were exhausted in 1967; at that time,
the Government was unable to raise funds to continue the works. Extensive
failures have occurred in the Aguaytia-Neshuya section, now included to be
reconstructed and completed under the proposed project. In May 1969, a
ministerial committee was appointed to investigate the history, work quality
and condition of the project. On the strength of the committee's report,
the Government initiated legal proceedings against the consultants (Brown
and Root, US) and contractors (Zachry. US, and associated contractors in
Peru), claiming that the failures were due to unsatisfactory and inadequate
construction methods. In February 1974, the matter was settled out of court.
3.        The second construction loan was for the La Oroya-Aguaytia section
of the Lima-Pucallpa road (Loan 425-PE, US$33 million). This loan, signed
in September 1965, was intended to finance 60% of the entire road construc-
tion costs. In November 1969, the Government and the Bank agreed, after
large cost overruns had occurred, to reduce the scope of the project in
order to match the available funds; consequently, the remaining works were
postponed to a second phase (and a portion is, in fact, included in the
proposed project). The scaled-down project was completed by January 1973,
18 months after the original Closing Date.
4.        The third loan for the Lima-Pucallpa road (Loan 1025-PE, US$26
million) signed in July 1974, financed 65% of the remaining works (phase II)
in the most critical section of the La Oroya-Aguaytia section, i.e., the



ANNEX 1
Page 2
219-km Huanuco-Aguaytia section. The project includes paving of the entire
section, excepting about 55 km of highly unstable terrain, which has been
deferred until further geotechnical studies included in the project are
carried out. It also includes the purchase of a portion of the maintenance
equipment required for the proper maintenance of the Lima-Pucallpa road and
a double surface treatment for the 61-km Neshuya-Pucallpa section. In
addition, 200 km of feeder roads to be improved and two transport-related
studies were also included in the project. The project has suffered some
administrative delays, but is expected to progress satisfactorily in the
future.
5.        In addition to the three highway loans for the Lima-Pucallpa road,
a road project (Loan 706-PE, US$30 million) was signed in September 1970; it
helps in financing the cost of consultants for the feasibility studies and
detailed engineering and 67% of the cost of reconstructing the access roads
to, and within, the Callejon de Huaylas, the area struck by a violent earth-
quake in May 1970. The project had only been identified at the time the loan
was made, and a preliminary study of alternative routes for the access road,
a feasibility study, and detailed engineering still had to be carried out.
The time required for this process was underestimated at the time of appraisal,
and a number of difficulties developed with the consultants engaged to pre-
pare the studies: the rate of disbursement has, therefore, been much slower
than forecast. The project, however, is now proceeding satisfactorily, and
completion of construction is scheduled for the end of 1976, 15 months after
the original Closing Date.
6.        Loans of US$2.5 million and US$6.575 million (57-PE and 208-PE) were
made in 1952 and 1958, respectively, for expansion of the port of Callao.
Although delays were encountered because of difficulties with contractors,
the projects produced good port facilities. A sum of US$3.1 million (373-PE)
was lent in 1974 for the port of Paita and US$9.1 million (446-PE) was lent
in 1966 for the port of Pisco; both projects have been completed successfully.
Since January 1970, all ports have been managed by ENAPU along the lines agreed
with the Bank.
7.        Two loans (190-PE and 334-PE), totaling USS28.25 million, were made
in 1958 and 1963 to the Peruvian Corporation (PC), a private company which
owned and operated the country's most important railways. The first loan,
however, was canceled by mutual agreement before it became effective; the
second, for US$13.25 million, was successful both from physical and economic
points of view, but the PC ran into financial difficulties. As a result, the
Government has, since 1967, serviced the Bank loan in accordance with the
Guarantee Agreement. In 1972, the Government purchased the PC's assets in
Peru and created a new agency to manage the state railways.
December 1975



ANNEX 2
Page, 1
PERU
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Railways, Ports and Civil Aviation in Peru
Railways
1.        Several separate private railways have been built from the Costa to
the Sierra since the 19th century as part of the development of rich mineral
ore deposits in the Andes. Until 1972, the Government owned only four small
lines, adding up to less than one-fifth of the total length. In 1972, the
Government purchased from the Peruvian Corporation the Central and Southern
Railways, the most important lines in Peru, with a total length of 1,200 km.
It also created a new agency, Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles (ENAFER) to
manage the state railways. The Central Railway links the mineral producing
area of Huancayo and La Oroya with the port of Callao. It is the highest
standard gauge railway in the world (up to 4,829 m) and one of the most
difficult to operate. The Southern Railway connects the port of Mollendo with
Puno and Cuzco in the Sierra and, over Lake Titicaca, with the Bolivian ports
of Chaguaya and Guaqui, whence a railway line continues to La Paz. The
Southern Railway moves mainly Bolivian mineral export and general import
traffic and provides for exchange of Peruvian products between the Sierra
and the Costa. There are, besides, about 500 km of private lines used pri-
marily for shipping minerals. Freight traffic reached a maximum of 4.3
million tons in 1965 and has been steadily decreasing in recent years; in
1971, it totaled about 3.1 million tons. Passenger traffic, which decreased
rapidly after 1964, has become stable in recent years at around 2.5 million
passengers per year.
Ports and Waterways
2.        Some 97.6% of the tonnage of Peru's imports and 99.8% of exports
are transported by sea. A further 1.5% of imports and a small quantity of
exports are transported by river. Ports are therefore a crucial link in Peru's
international trade, and, with the exception of the river ports, constitute
the most efficient and developed of the country's transport modes. Callao,
Chimbote, Salaverry, Pisco and Matarani are the main deepwater public sea
ports (the private iron ore port of San Nicolas moves the largest tonnage),
while Iquitos and Pucallpa are the main river ports, giving access to the
Amazon system. The total traffic through Peruvian ports increased from 15
to 23 million tons between 1961 and 1971, mostly due to increased exports
of minerals (principally iron ore) and fishmeal, and increased coastal traffic
of petrolum products.
3.        The distance by ship along the Peruvian coast is about 1,700 km.
Goods are moved over fairly long distances, averaging over 1,000 km. Petroleum
and iron ore account for some 97% of the total tonnages of coastal shipping;
the latter is moved from San Nicolas to Chimbote, while crude oil and petroleum



ANNEX 2
Page 2
products are shipped from Talara to the other ports. Lake transport accounted
for about 30 million ton-km in 1970, mainly for the import-export trade of
Bolivia, represented by minerals outbound and capital goods and general cargo
inbound. The river system plays a vital role in the economy of the Selva
region. Although the volume of traffic is not very large, river transport
is the principal means of communication in the region, and it constitutes
an essential component of any transport corridor linking the Costa with the
Selva.
Air Transport
4.        Aviation infrastructure includes one international airport serving
the Lima-Callao area, seven more able to handle twin-jet aircraft, and about
40 additional ones used by smaller commercial carriers. Six airports had
more than 50,000 passenger movements in 1971; Lima's international airport,
by far the most important, had a total of 1.3 million passenger movements
(about two thirds of the country's total). Domestic air passenger service
grew at a high annual rate of 9.6/%' duiing 1960-1971, reaching about 600,000
passengers in 1971.  Pass-km have increased even faster, at a rate of 10.3%
annually in the same period, amounting to 387 million pass-km in 1971.  Air
cargo, on the other hand, declined by 3.4% during 1960-1971, probably as a
result of road transport competition: in 1971, 15,500 tons of domestic cargo
were moved by air transport.
December 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PERU
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Description and Economic Evaluation of Road and Port Elements of Proposed Project
San Mateo-Morococha (35 km)
1.        This stretch constitutes the deteriorated segment of the Lima-La
Oroya section, the westernmost section of the Lima-Pucallpa corridor and the
most heavily trafficked. Traffic in 1973 amounted to about 1,900 vehicles per
day (49% heavy vehicles). The Lima-La Oroya section not only serves the im-
portant mining district around La Oroya and the traffic to Pucallpa-Iquitos,
but it also collects the traffic from the Tarma-San Ramon area to the east and
the Huancayo-Ayacucho road to the south. The Central Railway parallels the
entire Lima-La Oroya road; the railway, however, hauls largely minerals from
the mining center to the Coast, and little diversion is expected, particularly
from a localized improvement over a minor portion of the road.
2.        The road was widened and paved in the 1950's, but deteriorated in
the highest section (maximum elevation 4,830 meters) because of insufficient
drainage facilities. Proposed works would comprise drainage and complete
pavement reconstruction of the 35-km damaged section.
3.        Historical traffic growth figures on this road show an increase in
volume of 7.4% annually. For the purpose of its feasibility study, the MTC
adopted a set of traffic growth rates ranging from 8% for cars, 3% for buses
and 6% for trucks up to 1977, to 5%, 3%, and 5% for the remainder of the 20-
year period of economic analysis, which is acceptable. To simplify the
analysis, however, an equally acceptable annual rate of 5.5% was used for
all traffic. Only benefits attributable to savings in vehicle operating
and road maintenance costs have been included. The improvement is well
justified, with an economic return (ER) in excess of 30% for the best estimate
and a first year benefit (FYB) also in excess of 30% (Table 7 of the report).
La Oroya-Huanuco (234 km)
4.        This section traverses a 100-km long plateau at an altitude of
4,300 m, and then descends to 1,900 m at the agricultural center of Huanuco.
Some of the most difficult bottlenecks of the Lima-Pucallpa road are encoun-
tered along the subsection between Cerro de Pasco and Huanuco. Proposed works
would include drainage, important stabilizing structures, and paving; close
to 10 km will not be paved at present because of major instability in the
area.
5.        The road to the Tarma-San Ramon region joins the project road at
21 km from La Oroya; for this reason, the traffic in this 21-km section
amounted to about 1,500 vehicles per dav in 1973 (65% heavy). Thereafter,



ANNEX 3
Page 2
the traffic varies from about 620 vehicles per day (75% heavy) past the junction
to 750 vehicles per day (55% heavy) near Huanuco. The consultants SAUTI divided
the road into 19 subsections and estimated traffic growth rates ranging between
5.3% anid 6.5% per annum, which is acceptable. To simplify the analysis, the
Bank divided the section into five subsections only, with annual traffic growth
rates ranging from 6.0% to 8.5%, The consultants calculated benefits with and
without time savings for all subsections.  A summary of the economic results is
detailed in Table 7. The proposed project is well justified, with an FYB
of 22% without time savings and 24% with time savings, and ER's of 31% and 30%,
respectively. The Cerro de Pasco-Salcachupan section in the most (lifficult
terrain shows the lowest economic values, although still satisfactory (FYB 19%
and ER 25% with time benefits). A sensitivity analysis of the proposed works
(with time savings) shows that, if construction costs would increase by 15% or
benefits decrease by 25%, the proposed project would have an ER of 27% and 25%,
compared to a best estimate of 30%. This portion is thus well justified.
Aguaytia-Neshuya (106 km)
6.        This section crosses rolling terrain corresponding to the last reaches
of the eastern Andes, through a densely forested area (Selva Alta). As ex-
plained in paragraph 2 of Annex 1, construction of this section was included
in a previous Bank-financed project (Loan 271-PE), but the construction was
never completed and the finished portions deteriorated. The proposed improve-
ments include provision of additional drainage facilities, reconstruction and
paving.
7.        As explained in Chapter 4, a feasibility study has been recently
carried out to determine traffic volumes and establish the costs and economic
justification of improving this 106-km section. Based on previous traffic
counts and on the origin and destination survey and traffic counts made for
this study, traffic has been established at 230 vehicles per day in 1975
(75% heavy) and an annual traffic growth rate of 8.0% has been established.
The economic evaluation, using the vehicle operating costs prepared for the
road and approximate cost per kilometer of Us$170,000 for the proposed re-
construction, results in an ER of about 10% for the proposed improvement with
time benefits and 9% without time benefits; FYB's are about 6% in both cases.
An effort will be made during the revision of the final engineering studies
to reduce costs whenever possible and to optimize the investment.
Access Road to Pucallpa and Its Port, and Streets of Pucallpa (9 km)
8.        The main objective of this improvement is to provide an adequate
all-weather link between the terminus of the Lima-Pucallpa highway to the
west of town and the new port at the northeast end of Pucallpa (Map IBRD
11383). At present, all through traffic to the port traverses the main
streets of town (population about 80,000). The proposed project includes
the necessary drainage structures, earthworks, and paving of the west access
road between the junction to Pucallpa's airport and the new port, bypassing



ANNEX 3
Page 3
the business district area but following existing and projected streets in
accordance with the city plan, and the paving of about 2 km of streets through
the heart of town, also leading to the new port. As a result, both the center
of town and the Lima-Pucallpa road would be connected to the new port by paved
streets, thus avoiding the congestion, dust and other social problems presently
generated by the earth-surfaced streets leading to the port.
9.        The review of detailed engineering studies for this sectiua
will be carried out soon, in conjunction with those mentioned in paragraph
7 above. Based on traffic counts carried out by the MTC at several pointc on
the road access and the urban streets leading to the port, during one week in
June 1974, traffic volumes were detected ranging from 2,460 vehicles per day
(32% heavy) on the access road to Pucallpa, to 1,380 vehicles per day (33%
heavy) on the streets of Pucallpa. An annual traffic growth rate of 8.0%
has been used, based on the expected rate of growth of port traffic and of
the town itself. Based on vehicle operating cost savings without time savings
and on a per-kilometer estimated cost of improvements of US$160,000, an ER of
18% and an FYB of 11% have been established. Other benefits such as reduction
in accidents due to better engineered roads and to the diversion of the heavy
port traffic from the center of town, and reduction of dust pollution and
congestion have not been taken into account. This portion of the project is
thus well justified. The results will be reviewed in the light of the
revised engineering studies.
Improvement of Feeder Roads
10.       The GDLT selected the following two feeder roads leading into the
Lima-Pucallpa road for inclusion in the proposed project:
(a)  Tambo del Sol-Huachon-Km 90 (90 km).  This road connects the Lima-
Pucallpa road with an area east of the Andes rich in potatoes and in forestry
and tropical fruits. The potato-growing area stretches from Huachon de
Quiparacra (beyond Km 50). As the road descends to the Ceja de Selva, forestry
areas in development can be found, including a sawmill at Mallan (Km 85). The
road follows the existing embankment of an old railroad that was planned to
extend the Central Railway from La Oroya to Pucallpa. Although the embankment
was built as far as 148 km from Tambo del Sol, vehicular traffic only reaches
Km 88, due to the absence of bridges. A bridge at Km 74 has also failed,
and a temporary timber structure has been improvised. Traffic has been estimated
at 40 vehicles per day (80% heavy traffic). The improvements proposed include
removal of slides, construction and reconstruction of culverts and of the 20 m
bridge at Km 74, and general improvement to gravel standards and 4 m width in
the most critical sections. On the basis of road user benefits, the proposed
investment of US$1.75 million yields a return of 19% (excluding time benefits),
without counting the considerable development effects which the improvements
would generate.
(b)  Huanuco-Churubamba (20 km).  The road runs on the left side of the
Huallaga River north of Huanuco (the Lima-Pucallpa highway crosses to the



ANNEX 3
Page 4
right side at the entrance of Huanuco), connecting the town with its airport
(at Km 8) and with small farm-to-market roads leading to areas cultivated
with corn and potatoes, and to dairy farms. The road is very winding, with
an average total width of 4.5 m during the first 10 km and about 3.0 m in
the remaining 10 km. During rainy periods it becomes almost impassable,
and vehicle operating costs for about 30 trucks per day are high. Improvement
to gravel standards and 6 m width for the first 10 km and 4 m for the remain-
ing 110 km, at a cost of US$0.58 million, would yield a return of 1lt on exist-
ing traffic (without time benefits), without counting the expected develop-
ment effects.
Construction and Improvement of River Ports
.Traffic
11.       The consultants, Livesey and Henderson, have updated the detailed
analysis (prepared by Wright Engineers) of traffic per commodity which has
been hauled and is expected to move through the ports of Iquitos, Pucallpa
and Yurimaguas. A summary of traffic volumes through the three ports is
shown in Table 9. The main commodities being transported on the river system
are forest industry products (lumber, plywood, roundwood and paper), agricultural
products and foodstuff (coffee, sugar, cotton and cotton seed paste, grains and
flour, and food items), bottled beverages, machinery and equipment, cement,
sand and gravel, petroleum products, and miscellaneous other products from
the Selva (barbasco, animal skins, jute). A major portion of the petroleum
products and forest industry products and practically all sand and gravel,
which make up a sizable portion of total river traffic, have not been handled
by the port at Iquitos and are not expected to move through the new ports;
they use private facilities at the three river ports. Of these products,
only sawn lumber at Pucallpa and a relatively small portion of petroleum
products in drums or other containers are expected to use the new port
facilities. There are no records of passenger river traffic at Pucallpa
and Yurimaguas. During 1969, the most recent year for which records are
available, 3,200 passengers arrived at Iquitos (two-thirds from Pucallpa
and one-third from Yurimaguas), and 2,300 left Iquitos (almost equally
divided between Pucallpa and Yurimaguas); there were only 100 passenger
movements with other ports.
Iquitos
12.       Berthing facilities comprise a main floating wharf 88 m x 10 m
suitable for berthing sea-going vessels and an extension 46 m x 6 m used for
the smaller river craft. The wharf is connected to the bank by a two-lane
bridge hinged at the landward end. Ship's gear is used for loading and un-
loading cargo in sea-going vessels, but mobile cranes are used for handling
goods into and from barges. River boats are worked with manual labor. Trailers
hauled by tractors are employed for transporting goods between dock and storage.
Pallets and forklifts are also employed. During the dry season, winches have
to be used for supplementing the tractor power. Covered and limited open



ANNEX 3
Page 5
storage is provided in the port area, but these facilities are inadequate for
the growing traffic and for avoiding long <lays to shipping, particularly
to the seagoing vessels.
13.       The proposed improvements consist of:  (i) construction of a floating
wharf 180 m long with two access bridges, each 60 m long; (ii) provision of
covered and open storage (Map IBRD 11158); and (iii) provision oi cargo-
handling equipment.
14.       Based on the records of traffic volumes per commodity and the ex-
pected changes in production and demand for the main ones, the consultants
have estimated a traffic growth rate of 6.4% p.a. Although there were some
fluctuations, traffic grew at about 6% p.a. during 1962-1971, excluding bulk
petroleum products. Livesey and Henderson have used a rate of growth of 6.4%
p.a., which, based on the results of oil exploration, is acceptable. On the
basis of the benefits mentioned in paragraph 5.04 of the report, and the
expansion works proposed under the project, an ER of 24% and an FYB of 19%
have been obtained, which are satisfactory (Table 10). A sensitivity analysis
increasing the costs by 15% or reduciag the benefits by 25% produces a minimum
ER of 18%, which is acceptable.
Pucallpa
15.       Although cargo of almost 100,000 tons is handled annually, there are
no fixed installations at this port. River boats and barges moor against the
river bank and work the cargo manually over planks placed between the boat
and the river bank. Privately owned mobile cranes, tractors and improvised
winches operating from the bank are used for handling heavy lifts. During
the wet season, the bank opposite the Capitania near the upstream end of
town is used; when the river is low, operations are shifted about a kilometer
downstream, near La Hoyada (Map IBRD 11383). Working of cargo over the river
bank, especially during the rains, becomes very slow and difficult.
16.       The proposed project includes at Pucallpa:  (a) construction of a
timber wharf approximately 200 m x 22 m, with a floating pontoon 12 m
x 8 m for passengers; (b) construction of transit sheds, offices and workshops;
(c) provision of paved storage areas, roads, services and fencing (Map IBRD
11156); and (d) provision of cargo-handling equipment.
17.       Based on 1963-1971 traffic data through the port of Pucallpa, the
throughput has been growing at about 12% annually. Although the demand is
expected to remain fairly high in the next few years, mainly because of the
traffic to the petroleum exploration areas, a conservative rate of growth of
7.2% annually has been assumed. Moreover, because of the uncertainty regarding
future shifts in the course of the Ucayali River, two analyses were made,
using a 15-year economic life for the proposed investment (assuming the river
does not change its course) and using five years, which is the period during
which no material changes in river condition are expected. Under the first
assumption, the port investment is well justified with an ER of 24% and an



ANNEX 3
Page 6
FYB of 20%. In the second case, the project is still acceptable, with an ER
of about 12%. Sensitivity analyses to study the effects of variations in
costs and benefits still show that the project is well justified.
Yurimaguas
18,       This town has no port installations; cargo is handled manually over
planks from river boats and barges moored against the river bank, the location
differing from the wet to the dry season. Two privately owned rice warehouses
and a small area previously leveled and used by a road contractor as a work
yard are the only storage facilities. Since 1967, the river channel adjacent
to the town has been silting, and, during the dry season, the barges have to
moor about 100 meters away from the main bank.
19.       The proposed improvements for the port of Yurimaguas include:
(a) construction of a floating wharf approximately 80 m x 12 m for cargo and
passengers (Map IBRD 11157); (b) initial and maintenance dredging of an access
channel, and provision of bank protection; (c) construction of a transit shed;
(d) provision of paved storage areas, roads, services and fencing; and (e)
provision of cargo-handling equipment and a small suction dredger.
20.       Available data on Yurimaguas' port traffic are erratic and often
conflicting. Moreover, there are large fluctuations from one year to the
next. Livesey and Henderson have estimated that traffic between 1964 and
1971 grew at about 8.5% annually. However, a slightly lower rate of growth
of 8% has been used in the economic evaluation. The proposed investment
yields an ER of 17% and an FYB of 11%. The sensitivity analysis also pro-
duces satisfactory results (Table 10).
Hydrological Observations
21.       As recommended by the consultants, a program for making two types
of hydrological observations is proposed: Type 1 would provide for intensive
observations near port installations, and Type 2 would be designed for
monitoring the whole river system. Two survey units would be set up for
carrying out Type 1 observations, which would include recording of water
level, measurement of current, channel cross-sections, sediment load, etc.
One survey unit would be organized for Type 2 observations, which would in-
clude hydrographic surveys, measurement of surface level, height and stream
velocities, and collection of data from aerial and satellite photographic
surveys. Consultants would assist in setting up the survey units by super-
vising the procurement and installation of the hydrological equipment and
would also train local staff in the operation and maintenance of the equipment.
December 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PER_
APPRAISAL OF A [.I+A-AMAZON IRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Studies and Consulting  ervices to Be Financed under the Proposed Project
1.        The first study concerns the feasibility and detailed engineering
for the Aguaytia-Neshuya road section, and access roads and streets to the
town and port of Pucallpa, totaling 115 km of road. Terms of reference for
required consulting services were approved by the Bank. Consultants Vera
& Moreno (Peru) have been entrusted with the study which is in progress.
2.        The second study included revision and updating of economic and
financial studies, and review and coordination for consistency of detailed
engineering studies, for the three river ports. The supplementary economic
and financial studies updated the 1971/72 feasibility study by Wright Engineers,
incorporating substantial changes in project design and costs of the port
facilities proposed at Pucallpa and Yurimaguas and changes in river traffic
resulting from petroleum-related activities in the region. Also, the study
recommended a program of hydrological data collection with equipment to be
purchased under the project. Terms of reference were agreed upon and con-
sultants acceptable to the Bank (Livesey & Henderson, UK) were selected. The
study was completed and was found satisfactory by the Bank in February 1975.
3.        In addition, feasibility studies of three transportation projects
would be undertaken under the proposed project.  A multimodal study would be
conducted to define a long-term investment strategy for the coastal transport
corridor (including the Pan-American Highway) between the city of Nazca
(which originates a considerable portion of the mineral traffic along the
corridor) and the border with Ecuador (1,500 km). The ensuing investment
program would complement industrial (steel and petrochemical) and port de-
velopment in the Costa, economically the most active region of the country.
A second feasibility study would be carried out to evaluate an important
development road connecting the port of Huacho with the central mining region
around Ambo (314 km). Finally, a feasibility study of a number of regional
airports would be undertaken, based on the preliminary engineering studies
already prepared by the General Directorate of Air Transport (GDAT) of the
MT C.
4.        As a complementary effort to the feasibility study of the central
trunk road (Tarma-Oxapampa) financed under the Sixth Highway Project (Loan
1025-PE), the proposed project includes, at the Government's request, a



ANNEX 4
Page 2
regional development study of the "Selva Central" 1/ to forecast demand for
transport services and related feasible road requirements, as well as
feasible projects in other economic and social sectors. This study acquires
special importance in view of the inauguration, in September 1974, of the
Chanchamayo bridge near San Ramon, which opens up a large area of great agri-
cultural and cattle growing potential at a relatively short distance from the
Lima market.
5.        The proposed project also provides for the financing of consulting
services to assist in the evaluation of bids for the road works and in the
procurement of road maintenance and hydrological craft and equipment, and
for the supervision of all civil works except the construction of the pontoon
and access bridges,for Iquitos which is to be executed by SIMA under its own
and DGWT's supervision. Provision has also been made for consulting services
for the supervision of the installation, operation and maintenance of the
hydrological equipment and for the training of local staff in the collection
of hydrological data.
June 1975
1/   This area comprises a number of fertile valleys, some of them settled
long ago, on the Andes piedmont (Ceja de Selva), connected to the
country's transport network by the San Ramon-Tarma-La Oroya road (Map
IBRD 11304).



ANNEX 5
P E R U
APPRAISAL OF A LIM&-AMAZON TRANSPOR' CORRIDOR PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Quarterly Disbursement       Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year                             (US  '000)           Disbursements
For Hig hiy     For River       (US$ '000)
Element 5L.,.  Port ElementsI1     Total
FY 1976
March 31, 1976                    360              40              400
June 30, 1976                                   1,600            2,000
FY 1977
September 30, 1976              2,700           1,600           6,300
December 31, 1976               .3,300          1,700           11,300
March 31, 1977                  3,800           1,900          17,000
June 30, 1977                   4,400           2,100           23,500
FY 1978
September 30, 1977              lt,900          1,900           30,300
December 31, 1977               5,500           1,600           37,400
March 31, 1978                  5,500             900           43,800
June 30, 1978                   5,500             700           50,000
FY 1919
September 30, 1978              5,000o            500          55,5oo
December 31, 1978               L,400             300           60,200
March 31, 1979                  3,900                           64,100
June 30, 1979                   3,700                           67,800
FY 1980
September 30, 1979              ,,200                          71,000
December 31, 1979               2,700                           73,700
March 31, 1980                  1,8o0                           75,500
June 30, 1980                   1,000                           76,55u0
/1  Includes civil works, equipmen'  and consulting services.
Assumptions:  Loan effective  - February 1976
Civil Works contracts awarded March 1976
Works started            -    June 1976
Port Works completed    -    December 1978
Road Works completed    -    June 1980
December 1975



ANNEX 6
PERU
APPRAISAL OF A LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
ENAPU's Financial Relationships with the Government
When the new Government came to power in 1968, it abolished the then
recently created National Port Authority (NPA) and replaced it by ENAPU. The
old NPA had been established in accordance with Bank recommendations and was
responsible for all port construction, including the development of new ports.
It had been agreed with the Bank that NPA would take over the financial obli-
gations of the previous Bank loans and other such debts related to the Ports.
When it established ENAPU, the Government discussed with the Bank its inten-
tions to have the responsibility for construction of new ports shifted to
the new DGWT in the MTC, and the Bank formally agreed to this change. The
Government also stated that it was contributing the assets of the old NPA to
ENAPU as equity, so that in effect the Government would not pass on the obli-
gation to repay previous debts. The only exception was the Bank loan to
Callao which was assumed by ENAPU. The Bank, in its letter which accepted
the change in construction responsibility, clearly stated that the debts for-
merly assigned to NPA should be transferred to ENAPU, but the Government
proceeded with its plans and no further action was taken by the Bank. As a
result, the present costs of port services do not include the debt service
on some new facilities, and investment decisions are sometimes not related to
operating requirements.
Since the Government is contributing these new investments in port
facilities as equity, there should be concern over the Government's earning
a reasonable rate of return on these assets. In fact, it was agreed between
the Government and the Bank in the Pisco loan agreement that both Pisco and
Paita would earn no less than 6% on net fixed assets. When this target was
not achieved in 1970, the Bank asked the Government to request a lower return
for the covenant, and this issue was dropped. At present, though ENAPU's
By-laws call for it to be financially viable, no rate of return targets
exist. There is no formal dividend policy between ENAPU and the Government,
but the operating budget and investment plans of the former must be approved
by the Government, and unused funds are kept on permanent deposit with the
National Treasury.
June 1975



N            -J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
iNg!   <5N.                          N4 
Er
(.)  p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
N'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                               
m                                                        ji~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






S   -~~~~~~~~~PR
. 4  *                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P E R U
LIMA-AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Proposed Works at Pucallpa
Acce ss roads and streets to be improved
New port s,te/                           .
-Main acces road.                    /~
>ER'e'AM  PR IrC Ai                                                        uil tip a creas
7 S f  \    S  i l m  X   s  :=     L \\    g        SE \                               /        /
= I *= ,&gs2E P' L \  I  i
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
p  * ;       0   -  tm   E     ] *ir  X   °       t   ~   g     I / 
t
PITAti* -2   <X  A
'!                            /                 '
@ ! = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
:   *   RPORT < < _ < : X ) i:, =, r 
/U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L HOOP \ tA "' 
0  0 f; ff j a           J- /#/---   ~~~~~~~~~towWoe
0 0   0 0 S ;; 0; = 0  0 0   0 0    0  0 0 0  0 0  0 0  =; t:0 0; 0  0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~Por Ae  r
'V0S0ED  fiV 0V0f ff0!-'X,; 0''0D''.0'' '=' ' ==''~X, D :;kl, : 
,,;.   S   a   ;   10   2n   0   eS;t  :  '  e:  ;,:a;t. [. :0: ..... >; -; ) > rx~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5-
ii ~ ~      ~      ~       04r         0 ii iE=r         






IBRD 11556
JULY 1975
Y  r\                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~P E R U
LIMA -AMAZON TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
DETAILS OF PROPOSED PORT WORKS AT PUCALLPA
Proposed Facilities
Future Exponsion not Included in Proposed Project
.  E 1 Built -up Area
1Z7Rivers
Elevations in Meters Above Mean Sea Level
-V
-4
N
METERS
y                        f~~~~~~~~~~~~he boundaries sown on thee map do not
imply endoremnent or acceptance by the
World Aank and itesaffiliates.
0                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cbo,)hhge,n SA0
<~AMERICA--
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Internotionat
Boundary






IBRD 11557
JULY 1975
P A R A IV A P U RA                       RI VER
TO BE DREDGED To  152;5
,   .   -  -  : , ,\, ,{~~~-                                           /
,-   -AL  CT T.TTSO 
/         -                               .           :                       .                       PPOPOSED OCATIONr
YURIMAGL   A
9<       /           CRIB                      -T
L/ DLPHIN                                  \      \
CRIB       \     tMAX. 4 lTM
,  ACCESS            DE  KIJ
BRIDGE
II EE ! .PropoWi     Flities
EX't0inFa ciltits
_____,t,' 1.1,1  ,',, 121w!   111;E1,_   tIv25   t  \  i   _______ Rivers
, ~~~~~~C5N1'RET-, D-11 .ON PltLS    |t            DJ-bh
1 -J 1625   Ele     ii * ters Above
-/                        e1 .       Meaw  Se lmeSvea l
Th   nat~he(,7p-t o,m                                                                                               10   20   30  40  50
Ctp(y utdOrie t dlo, (m 7 f thi e m p do                                                     I                                   I _       I P
C-ibbymdwem?l 5.0 LePlrreq                  ji_ -.                                                  It     
ttorobRorl 5       \        1      s 11 rS          PETROLEUM   .--                                 .     -     :
ST    B-ORAGEETOl  U_ TLMAAMAZON
P RL> Ot,!jjSOUTH                                    0,                                                       TRANSPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
-I AMERit A -eqL- 1_
DETAILS OF PROSED PORT WORKS
/ ,-  i                                  -- -                           I                                 AT YURIMAGLAS
$1  - --   Al/antR                             EXISTING
.i . .-:  Ocean                                RICE WAREHOUSE
. - --InWCI.
'I s     Pwy,I    






-   .  S li3 1 3 W 0                                                                                S O.i.lo
..  .    . '  t          ..... ~~     ~~0  t                      2                     
.,~~ 4   ,....... ..... .|.. 
, '  ;  I V . "'\ 'd
z:D S.$ I I O , X r_                                  H     '.S.
......         ..  ...  ..- ...- I...... .W. 1],a
S@lpDs | u L 
.--  ,.....'  , .t. j --
, {nO                -                  .    ,      -              
..glill tg11d dic ..........................£r1C ................. .. -  . .  
., lBrx  ~~S~f180       <SM         hZ W tI                                    ai2t            <'   ..-. 
.   ;-             ng  gd    .;                                           .  .       i.          - - .1 
;     0                                                         -      .                       :    ---<4
~~~...-'- ": '"'..'
.~L  G                                      ,/             ilE ;



