CONFORMED COPY
lw
LOAN NUMBER 1196 PE
Project Agreement
(Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE PUERTOS
DATED MAY 27, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1196 PE
Project Agreement
(Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE PUERTOS
DATED MAY 27, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 27, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and EMPRESA NACIONAL DE PUERTOS (ENAPU).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Republic of Peru (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to seventy-six million five hundred thousand dollars ($76,500,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that ENAPU
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS ENAPU, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Management and Operations of ENAPU
Section 2.01. (a) ENAPU shall operate and maintain all its properties, plants,
facilities and equipment and from time to time make all necessary renewals and
repairs thereof, and at all times manage its affairs, operate its facilities and
equipment and maintain its financial position, in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices.
(b)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, ENAPU shall operate,
maintain, renew and repair the properties, facilities and equipment transferred to
it by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement with due


﻿4
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial
and engineering practices, and shall provide, or shall take all steps necessary to
obtain, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(c)   ENAPU shall at all times be managed by competent, qualified and
experienced management.
Section 2.02. ENAPU shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 2.03. (a) ENAPU (i) shall, without limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (b) hereof, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the properties,
facilities and equipment transferred to it by the Borrower pursuant to Section
3.06 of the Loan Agreement and any relevant records and documents; and (ii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the operation and maintenance of the properties, facilities and
equipment in (i) hereof.
(b)   ENAPU    shall, for purposes of the Project, enable the Bank's
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of ENAPU and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.04. (a) The Bank and ENAPU shall, at the request of any one
of them, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the operation
and maintenance of the properties, facilities and equipment transferred to ENAPU
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement, the performance
of their respective obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   ENAPU shall promptly inform      the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the operation and maintenance of the
properties, facilities and equipment in paragraph (a) hereof, or the performance
by ENAPU of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. ENAPU shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.


﻿5
Section 3.02. ENAPU shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of ENAPU and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ENAPU shall:
(i) revise, not later than December 31, 1976, on the basis of the costing study
presently being carried out by ENAPU, the tariff structure of its rates and charges
for port services to enable ENAPU to earn an annual rate of return of at least
six per cent (6%) on the average current net value of its fixed assets in operation
calculated in accordance with a method, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall
exclude from the revenues of ENAPU any revenues not related to services provided
by it; (ii) revalue its assets and liabilities, from time to time, to such extent as
shall be necessary to reflect adequately, at the time of each revaluation, the current
value thereof, in accordance with a sound and consistently applied method of
revaluation acceptable to the Bank; (iii) establish and maintain, in accordance with
the Basic Laws, rates and charges for its services at the port of Iquitos at levels
sufficient to achieve a working ratio of no more than 140 in the year 1976, 120
in the year 1977 and 100 in the year 1978; and (iv) establish and maintain, in
accordance with the Basic Laws, rates and charges for its services at the ports
of Iquitos, Pucallpa and Yurimaguas at levels sufficient to achieve a working ratio
for the three ports together of not more than 100 in the year 1979 and progressively
lower ratios in the following years.
(b)   For the purposes of paragraph (a)(iii) and (iv) of this Section, "working
ratio" means working expenses (i.e., operating expenses before depreciation and
interest) divided by operating revenues (excluding any revenues not related to
services provided by ENAPU).
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.


﻿6
Section 4.02. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement.
Section 4.03. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of ENAPU
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For ENAPU:
Terminal Maritimo del Callao
Edificio Administrativo, Tercer Piso
Callao, Perf
Cable address:
ENAPUPERU
Callao, Peru


﻿7
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of ENAPU may be taken or executed by its Gerente General or such other person
or persons as ENAPU shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. ENAPU shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of ENAPU, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by ENAPU pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   /s /  Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRPSA NACIONAL DE PUERTOS
By   /s I  Carlos Garcia Bedoya
Authorized Representative


