                                        Documentof
                                     The WorldBank

                             FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                      ReportNo: 35392-AM




                           PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                           ONA

                                   PROPOSEDCREDIT

                         INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR4.4 MILLION
                           (US$6.25 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                                 REPUBLICOFARMENIA

                                          FORA

                 AVIANINFLUENZAPREPAREDNESS(AIP) PROJECT
       AS PARTOFTHE GLOBALPROGRAMFORAVIANINFLUENZA(GPAI)


                                        May 1,2006




Environmentallyand SociallySustainableDevelopmentUnit
EuropeandCentralAsia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceoftheir official duties. Itscontentsmaynot otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (ExchangeRateEffectiveMarch 31,2006)

                              CurrencyUnits        =      ArmenianDram (AMD)
                                      AMD455       =      US$1

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1           -     December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS ANI) ACRONYMS

AI      Avian Influenza                               MAP        Multi-country APL
AIP     Avian Influenza Preparedness                  MDTF       Multi-Donor Trust Fund
APL     Adaptable Program Loan                        MOA        MinistryofAgriculture
ASEAN   Association o f SoutheastAsian Nations        M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
BSL     Bio-Safety Level                              MONP       Ministry o fNature Protection
CDC     U S Center for Disease Control                MOH        MinistryofHealth
CE      Catastrophic Events                           NAPA       Nationaladvance purchase agreements
DIVA    Differentiationo finfected from vaccinated    NARES      NationalAgricultural Researchand
        Animals                                                   ExtensionSystems
EA      Environmental assessment                       NCB       National Competitive Bidding
ECDPC   European Center for Disease Prevention and     NDCC       NationalDisease Crisis Center
        Control
EMP     Environmental ManagementPlan                   OIE        World Organizationfor Animal Health
ERA     Emergency Recovery Assistance                  OP         Operational Policy
ERL     Emergency Recovery Loan                        P O M      Project Operational Manual
FA0     Foodand Agricultural Organization              PP         Procurement Plan
FMR     FinancialManagement Report                     NGO        Non-governmental organization
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                         San-Epid State Hygiene and Anti-Epidemic
                                                       Inspectorate
GF-TAD Global Framework for Progressive Controlof      SARS       Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
        Trans-boundary Diseases
GPAI    Global Programfor Avian Influenza and Human    SOE        Statement o fExpenditures
        Pandemic Preparednessand Response
HIV/AIDSHumanImmune-deficiency ViruslAcquired          TCP        Technical Cooperation Program
         ImmuneDeficiency Syndrome
mAI     Highlypathogenic avian influenza               TF         Task Force
H5N1    Avian InfluenzaA virus subtype H 5 N1          TF         Trust Fund
HSMP    Health Systems Modernization Project
ICB     International Competitive Bidding              UNDP       UnitedNations Development Program
ILI     Influenza-like illness                         VMI        Veterinary Marz Inspection
IMTF    Inter-Ministerial Task Force                   VSI        Veterinary State Inspection
JSDF    Japanese Social DevelopmentFund                WAHIS      WorldAnimal HealthInformationSystem
LDCC    LocalDisease Crisis Centers

                                Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                  Country Managermirector:          DonnaDowsett-Coirolo
                              Sector Manager:       JuergenVoegele
                            Task Team Leader:       Mark R. Lundell

                                                                       ARMENIA
                                AVIAN INFLUENZA PREPAREDNESSPROJECT

                                                                     CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                                 Page

A.   STRATEGICCONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                                          .................................................................     1
 1.      Globalregional andnational sector issues..........................................................................                                        1
 2. Rationale for Bank involvement.........................................................................................                                        4

B.   PROJECTDESCRIPTION                                   .................................................................................................        5
 1.      Lendinginstrument.............................................................................................................                            5
 2. Project development objective ............................................................................................                                     5
 3. Project components.............................................................................................................                                5
 4. Lessonslearnedandreflected inthe project design..........................................................                                                     11
 5.       Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection............................................................                                           13

C IMPLEMENTATION
 .                                              ........................................................................................................          13
  1.      Partnership arrangements..................................................................................................                              13
  2.      Institutionalandimplementation arrangements................................................................                                             13
  3. Monitoringand evaluation o f outcomeslresults................................................................                                                14
  4. Sustainability.....................................................................................................................
                    *       . .                                                                                                                                   15
  5. Criticalrisks andpossible controversial aspects...............................................................                                               15
  6. Maincredit conditions ......................................................................................................                                 17

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                                       .................................................................................................        18
  1. Economic analysis ............................................................................................................                               18
  2. Technical...........................................................................................................................                         18
  3. Fiduciary...........................................................................................................................                         20
  4. Environment and social aspects........................................................................................                                       21
  5. Safeguard policies............................................................................................................. 21
  6. PolicyExceptions andReadiness......................................................................................                                          22

Annex 1: Tenthingsyou needto know about pandemicinfluenza(WHO .14October 2005)
.......................................................................................................................................................           23

Annex 2a: Summary andReview ofthe Avian InfluenzaAction Plan                                                                  ..................................  26


of the Republic of Armenia     ........................................................................................................           26

Annex 2b: Organization of the Veterinary Services and the Health Care System inthe
Republicof Armenia   ...................................................................................................................          29

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                         ........................................................................        32

Annex 4a: Detailed Project Description              ....................................................................................          40

Annex 4b: Culling and Compensation Procedures                            .................................................................        49

Annex 5: Project Costs  ...............................................................................................................           64

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                    .................................................................................         65

Annex 7: Procurement, FinancialManagement, and DisbursementArrangements                                                                 ...........66
Annex 8: Economic Analysis       ......................................................................................................           72

Annex 9: Safeguard Policy Issues          ..............................................................................................          77

Annex 10: Project Preparation and Supervision                        .....................................................................         79

Annex 11:Documents inthe Project File                   .................................................................................          80

Annex 12: Statement of Loans and Credits                   ..............................................................................          83

Annex 13: Country at a Glance         .................................................................................................            84

Annex 14: IBRD33364     ...............................................................................................................            86


                                       ARMENIA

                     AVIANINFLUENZA PREPAREDNESSPROJECT

                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                             EUROPEAND CENTRAL ASIA

                                         ECSSD

Date: May 1,2006                             Team Leader: Mark R. Lundell
Country Director: D-MDowsett-Coirolo         Sectors: Generalagriculture, fishing and
SectorManagerDirector: JuergenVoegele        forestry sector (50%); Health (50%)
                                             Themes: Naturaldisastermanagement
                                             (P);Other communicablediseases (P);Rural
                                             policies andinstitutions (S);Other environment
                                             andnaturalresourcesmanagement(S)
Project ID: PO99832                          Environmental screeningcategory: Partial
                                             Assessment
Lending Instrument: EmergencyRecovery
       -
Credit
                                 Project FinancingData
[ ]Loan     [XI Credit  [ 3 Grant [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:

For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Total Bankfinancing (US$m.): 6.25
Proposedterms: StandardIDA charges andterms o f 40 years maturityincluding 10years grace
                                 Financing Plan (US$m)
                 Source                      Local             Foreign           Total
B    O    ~    O   ~    ~    C   ~   ~   N    T 1.05               1.10              2.15
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT                        3.15               3.10              6.25
ASSOCIATION
US: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL                    0.07               0.06              0.13
DEVELOPMENT (USAID)
JAPAN: MINISTRY OF FINANCE -                    0.35               0.45              0.80
P H R D G W T S
Total:                                          4.62               4.71              9.33

Borrower:
RepublicofArmenia
Armenia
ResponsibleAgency:
Ministry ofAgriculture
GovernmentBuilding No. 3
Yerevan, 375010Armenia
Tel: t-374-10-524641, Fax: +374-10-524610
Ministry ofHealth
GovernmentBuilding No. 3

Yerevan, 375010 Armenia
Tel: +374 -10 582413 Fax: 374 156 27 83




Doesthe project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
As part ofthe Global Program for Avian Influenza, this operation is o f an
emergencynature. Itwas not foreseen inthe CAS, but i s not inconsistent with   [ ]Yes [XINO

the CAS.
Doesthe project require any exceptions from Bankpolicies? Re$ PAD D.6
The only policy exception requestedhasbeenwith regard to the waiver o fthe     [XIYes [ ] N o
completion o fthe EA andEMPperpara. 12 o f OP 4.01. This waiver hasbeen

                                                                               [XIYes [ ] N o
[                                                                              [ ]yes [XINO
Does the project include any criticalrisks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                    [XIYes [ ]No

Does the projectmeet the Regional criteria for readinessfor implementation?
Re$ PAD D.6                                                                    [XIYes [ ] N o




Component 1:Animal Healthwill support activities on prevention, control and eradication o fthe
HPAI.

Component 2: HumanHealthwill focus on activities to reduce the impact o fHPAIbybuilding
an effective national public health responsestrategy andan enabling environment andthe
necessaryresources to bringproveninterventions quickly up to nationwidescale.
Component 3: Public Awareness andImplementationSupport will provide informationand
communication activities to increasethe attention and commitment o fgovernment, private
sector, andcivil society organizations, and to raise awareness, knowledge andunderstanding
among the generalpopulationabout the risk andimpact o f a potentialpandemic.

 Component 4. Support to Critical Importswould finance, under Emergency Recovery Assistance
 (ERA)procedures, apositive list ofcriticallyneededimports identifiedasnecessaryto a
 responseprogram inthe event anAI humanpandemic were to occur.
 Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD DS, TechnicalAnnex 9
 There are two safeguard issues: (i)  environmental assessment for technologies to be deployed for
 the disposal o fculledpoultry and (ii) mitigationo fthe negative impacts o fmandatedculling of
 poultry on small scale backyardpoultryproducers.

 Overall, activities under the Project are not expectedto generateany adverse environmental
 effects as they are focused largely on public sector capacitybuildingand improved readiness for
 dealingwith outbreaks o f avian influenzaindomestic poultry. These prevention-focused
 activities are expected to have a positive environmental impact as the Project's investments in
 facilities, equipment, and training for laboratories will improvethe effectiveness and safety over
 existing avian influenzahandlingandtesting proceduresbymeeting international standards
 established by the OIE. This would bereinforced bythe mainstreaming of environmental
 safeguards into protocols andprocedures for the culling anddisposal of animals duringAI
 outbreaks.
 Significant, non-standardconditions, if any, for:
 Re$ PAD C.6
 Boardpresentation:
 None
 Loanlcrediteffectiveness:

1(a) The Recipient has appointed the head o fthe Secretariatofthe Inter-Ministerial Committee
 for Avian Influenza.

 (b) TheRecipient hasappointedProject Component Coordinators withterms o freference and
 experience satisfactory to the Bank.

 (c) A Project Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, hasbeenadoptedby the Recipient.
 Covenants applicable to project implementation:
 a) A disbursement condition for the Animal Healthcomponent is the adoption bythe Recipient
 of anEnvironmental Management Plansatisfactory to the Bank.

 b) Disbursement conditions for the CompensationFundsub-component are that: (i)        the
 CompensationFundhas been established ina manner satisfactory to the Bank; (ii)       the
 compensation ProceduresManual, satisfactory to the Bank, hasbeen adopted bythe Recipient;
 and, (iii) Compensation Fundpayments arebeingmade inaccordancewith criteriaand
            the
 procedures set forth inthe Compensation ProceduresManual.

 c) A disbursement condition for the poultryrestructuring co-financing grants is that the Poultry
 Restructuring Sub-projects are beingselectedand implemented inaccordance with criteria and
 procedures set forth inthe Project Operational Manual.

 d) A disbursementcondition for the Critical Importscomponent isthat the Recipienthas
 declared a national emergency on avian influenzaandadopted a well-defined emergency
 recovery program satisfactory to the Bank.


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE

1. Global regionaland nationalsectorissues

(a) Introduction

1,      The continuing outbreaks of highlypathogenic avian influenza (HPAI),which begun inlate 2003
inseveral Southeast Asian countries andhave occurredmorerecently inCentral Asia, Europe, the Middle
East, and recently Africa, have been disastrous to the poultry industry inthe two regions and have raised
serious global public health concerns. As o f February 2006, nearly 200 million domestic poultry had
either died or been destroyed, and economic losses to the Asian poultry sector alone are estimated at
around $10 billion. Of the 170 people known to have been infectedby the disease in seven countries, 92
have died, These recent increases in the number o f known cases o f avian influenza (AI)transmission
have raised concerns over the potential emergence o f a pandemic, which could have devastating effects
onhumanhealth andlivelihoods.

2.       It is impossible to anticipate when the next influenza pandemic may occur or how severe its
consequences may be. On. average, three pandemics per century have been documented since the 16th
century, occurring at intervals of 10-50 years. Inthe 20thcentury, pandemics occurred in 1918, 1957 and
1968. The pandemic o f 1918 i s estimated to have killed almost 50 million people in eighteen months,
with peak mortality rates occurring inpeople aged 20-45 years. The pandemics o f 1957 and 1968 were
milder, but many countries nevertheless experienced major strains on health care resources. If       a major
pandemic were to appear again, similar to the one in 1918, even with modem advances inmedicine, an
unparalleled toll o f illness and death could result. Air travel might hasten the spread o f a new virus, and
decrease the time available for preparing interventions. Countries' health care systems could be rapidly
overwhelmed, economies strained, and social order disrupted. Through interventions as proposed inthis
Project, and in collaboration with other national and international partners, it should be possible to
minimizea pandemic's consequencesinArmenia through advance preparationto meet the challenge.

(b) Key Issues

3.       A coordinated global response to HPAI should involve three types of strategic activities: (i)
preventing the occurrence and spread o f the disease indomesticated animals, thus lowering the virus load
inthe environment, (ii)   preventing andlor mitigating the effects of an outbreak inhumans, and (iii) the
                                                                                                       in
event o f a pandemic, helping affected populations cope with its effects. This response should entail
immediate measures while ensuring that these measures fit within a coherent longer-term strategy with
respect to both animal and human health considerations. Key issues that have been identified in
formulating this responseinclude:

e    Prevention and control of avian influenza is multi-sectoral in nature. It involves many players,
     including those in the areas o f health, agriculture, environment, economics, and finance        among
     others. At the country level, inparticular, an integrated, multi and inter-sectoral response i s needed
     based on shared objectives. Responses must address both the animal health and human health
     dimensions and also appropriate social measures (quarantines, transport restrictions, mass
     communication strategies).

a    The risk of a humanpandemic is real. The H5N1 strain currently affecting over twenty countries
     has proven highly fatal to humans.        The risk that a pandemic virus will emerge depends on
     opportunities for human exposure and infection, which will persist as long as the H5N1 virus
     continues to circulate in animals. With the present situation, the potential o f the HPAI virus to



                                                      1

    become transmissible among humans needs to be a serious concern. If the virus adapts itself to
    human-to-human transmission, livesmay be threatened on alarge scale.


0   The geographic coverage of a response should be determined by both immediate and anticipated
    needs. Asia i s today the most affected region, but the disease has spreadto other areas o f the world
    at an alarming rate and recent scientific evidence indicates that wild birdsplay a role inthe spread of
    the virus from one country or region to another. The response should, therefore, combine control
    measures in countries where the virus has been already detected, with prevention measures in
    countries at risks (countries neighboringinfectedcountries andor inmigratory birdfly way paths). A
    minimumlevelofpreparednessis essential inall countries.

    An appropriate balance between short and long-term actions needs to be taken. Immediate action
    i s needed ina number o f areas. The immediateto short-term objective i s to reduce the risk to humans
    by preventing further spread of HPAIin those countries that are currently infected. The long-term
    vision o f the strategy i s to minimize the global threat and risk o f HPAI in domestic poultry and
    humans, through progressive control and eradication o f HPAI. Achieving this goal will diminishthe
    global threat o f a human pandemic, stabilize poultry production, enhance a robust regional and
    international trade inpoultry and poultry products, increase human and food safety, and prevent the
    erosionof the livelihoods of the ruralpoor.


0   Global and regional aspects of the response need to be addressed and coordinated. Actions to
    secure borders and control internationaltradeltravel inthe event o f a pandemic, as well as measuresto
    limit the effects of disease transmission by migratory birds, are trans-boundary issues requiring
    regional andlor international coordination. Global and regional efforts should build on existing
    mechanisms such as the joint OIElWorld Bank initiative for the Prevention and Control o f Global
    Emerging and Re-emerging Diseases o f Animal Origin, and the joint Global Framework for
    Progressive Control o f Transboundary Animal Diseases (GF-TADs), a joint FAOlOIE initiative and
    regional organizations such as the Association o f Southeast Asian Nations and South Asian
    Association for Regional Cooperation.

4.       The FAOIOIE's Global Strategy. The long-term vision o f the strategy preparedby FA0 and
OIE in collaboration with WHO is to minimize the global threat and risk o f HPAI in humans and
domestic poultry, through progressive control and eradicationo f HPAI, particularly that causedby H5N1
virus, from terrestrial domestic poultry. The global strategy i s being implemented over three time frames:
immediate to short (1-3 years), short to medium (4-6 years) and medium to long-term (7-10 years).
During this period the spread of HPAI, mainly of the H5N1 strain, will have been progressively
controlled indomestic poultry o f all infected countries, and prevented from affecting those countries not
currently infected, but at high risk. The strategy originally prepared to control HPAI in Asia i s being
revisedby FA0 and OIE to take into account the current spread on the disease outside Asia. The strategy
will be complemented bymore detailed country specific HPAI control plans. FAOlOIEhave also issued
specific recommendations for avian influenza and OIE has recently issued recommendations for each
region, in addition to its standards and guidelines provided for the prevention and control o f HPAI in
animals.

5.       The Recommended Strategic Action plan prepared by WHO for Responding to the Avian
Influenza Pandemic Threat lays out activities for individual countries, the international community, and
WHO to prepare for a pandemic and mitigate its impact. The objectives of the plan correspond to the
opportunities and capacities to intervene and are structuredinthree phases: (i) pre-pandemic - supporting
the FAOIOIE's control strategy and increasing collaboration between animal and health services; (ii)
emergence o f a pandemic - containing or delaying spread at the source; and, (iii)  pandemic declared and
spreading internationally -reducingmorbidity, mortality and social disruption and conductingresearch to


                                                     2

guide response measures, WHO has also prepared a global plan, guidelines for pandemic preparedness,
and a model country plan that will allow countries to assess their state o f preparedness and identify
priority needs.

6.       The Bank has developed a global facility through a multi-country adjustable program loan
(MAP). Inparallel, the Bank is presently establishing with the EU, WHO and FAOIOE, and bilateral
donors a multi-donor trust fund (TF) that primarily supports country level activities inconjunction with a
smaller and complementary role at the regional and global level.

(e) Theregionaldimensi~n

7.       Cases o f avian flu have already occurred in several countries, including most recently inWestern
Europe (Germany, France, and the UK) after having appeared inOctober 2005-January 2006 in Croatia,
Romania, Ukraine, Greece, and Turkey. The earlier (mid-2005) Russian outbreak o f HPAIH5N1 has to
date affected six administrative regions, beginning in the Ural Mountains and moved west to within 200
km of Moscow. Inthe first three weeks of August 2005, outbreaks in poultry of HPAI H5N1 were
reported infour regions of northern and central Kazakhstan. Other countries inthe Balkanpeninsula and
the Caucasus are at risk due to their proximity to two main flyways, the East Afiica-West Asia Flyway,
which crosses Turkey, and the Central Asia Flyway, Both flyways cross-areas inNorth-eastern Europe,
where avian influenza inwild and domestic fowl has been diagnosed. Froma geographical point o f view,
Central Asian countries represent a vast area inwhich introduction o f AI i s likely to occur, and where the
sensitivity o f the system for early detectiono f HPAI is low.

(d) Thenational dimension

8.       Veterinarv Services Situation Being on a major migratory bird flyway and with outbreaks in a
number of neighboring countries (Turkey, Azerbaijan, and Iraq), Armenia i s now clearly faced with the
threat of avian influenza. Inreaction to this threat, the Ministry o f Agriculture (MOA) established on
October 31,2005 an Inter-Ministerial Task Force on Avian Influenza to coordinate nationwide measures
to combat the potential spread o f AI inArmenia. Soon thereafter the MOA developedwith the MOH an
Action Plan for AI which specifies measures they have targeted. On January 19, 2006, the Government
drafted a broader National Strategy for AIto be implementedby an Inter-Ministerial Committee on AI,to
which the Inter-Ministerial Task Force reports. Inline with this National Strategy for AI, and inorder to
prevent the incursion o f AI into the country, the Government has prohibited the import of poultry and
poultry products from the countries that have reported H5N1 outbreak cases. Transportation means are
being compulsorily disinfected at the border checkpoints, and veterinary services continually check dead
birds in order to clarify the causes of their death.    Inaddition, under the national law on "Veterinary
affairs", the Veterinary State Inspection has within the scope o f its functions the responsibility to
implement:
     0   prevention activities referring to the incursion o f quarantinable, specifically dangerous notifiable
     animal diseases;
         anti-endemic and veterinary-sanitary activities for the prevention, treatment and eradication of
     infectious andnon-infectious animal diseases;
         the processesofveterinary services relatedto protecting the populationfrom general diseases for
     humans andanimals; and,
     0   veterinary-sanitary inspection o f food products, raw materials, fodder and additives o f animal
     origin, andveterinary drugs, as well as o f inspection o f supervisiono f animal carcasseradication.

9.       Presently, the following veterinary subdivisions act within the structure of the Ministry of
Agriculture:



                                                       3

    0   Veterinary State Inspection- 1 division (6 people);
    0   Border control veterinary points o f state veterinary inspection-8 divisions (12 people);
    0   Marz inspection department of state veterinary inspection- 11divisions (11people);
    0   Regional inspectors -(38 people);
    0   "Veterinary anti-epidemic and diagnostic republicancenter" - 1division (92 people);
    0   Group for serologicalmonitoring- 1division (4 people); and,
    e   "Veterinary anti-epidemic and diagnostic republicancenter" personnel inmarzes.

10.     At the marz level these personnel typically include a virologist, a serologist, and four or more
veterinary service staff. Overall there are 757 community veterinarians in 902 communities, as well as
private veterinarians. Veterinary service personnel are insufficiently equipped and do not have enough
capacity for diagnostics anddisinfections. Dependingon the marz, regional veterinary and border control
points lack complex veterinary laboratories and make it highly improbable to resist the spread o f AI in
case it appears inthe country. Inorder to organize and implement effective measures against the spread o f
AI, supplemental financial resourcesare clearly needed.

11.     Reported cases of AI outbreaks in Turkey, Russia and other nearby countries have created
concern among the population that have resulted in decreased consumption o f poultry products and
negatively impacted producers. This negative impact has been particularly pronounced among the large-
scale closed cycle enterprises which market through urban stores, because this i s the source o f most
commercial sales. These producers are carrying out active advertising market campaigns inorder not to
lose their market. Ironically, backyardpoultry producers that sell their productioninopen markets (with
dubious veterinary permission) seemto have been impacted less to date (though this may change as open
market trade o f live animals is increasinglybanned).

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

12.      HPAI control programs require a multi-disciplinary approach to integrate technical, social,
economic, political, policy, and regulatory issues in addressing a complex problem. The Bank is well
placed to buildupon its knowledge base on multi-disciplinary approachesneeded inthe proposed Project,
which draws on evidence and lessons learned in the various regions regarding emergency preparedness
responses and multi-disciplinary approaches. The Bank's experience in multi-sectoral, emergency
response, and risk-mitigationprojects gives it considerable qualifications inbringingtogether the relevant
ministries, government agencies, and the donor community inArmenia, inunderstanding and addressing
the social andeconomic impact, and inassuring highlevel political coordination.

13,      Given the Bank's work with FAO, WHO, OIE, EU and other partners in country and at the
internationallevelto addressbothpreparednessandoutbreaks and to assist with institutional assessments,
the Bank can assist Armenia in leveraging additional resources from other international and bilateral
agencies. In addition to its financial role, the technical assistance provided by the Bank has been
important in similar global or regional emergency situations such as SARS, Tsunami relief, and
HIVIAIDS. The Bank's national andregional support i s closely linkedwith the activities of FAO, WHO,
OIE, and the EU, and the proposed Project is fully consistent with, and draws heavily on, the global
strategies proposed by FA0 and WHO and the field assessments executed by them in Armenia in
February-March2006.




                                                      4

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

14.      The proposed Project is supported by the Bank's multi-country adaptable program loan (MAP)
instrument, similar to the instrument already used to support the HIVfALDS' efforts in Africa and the
Caribbean. The funds supplied fiom the MAP for the Global Program for Avian Influenza (GPAI) will
complement activities supported by other international organizations and donor agencies andhelp ensure
the availability of adequate resources to fund the priority investments and technical assistance which
Armenia has identifiedas critical needs inimplementing its responseto HPAI. Funds under the GPAIare
available to countries which have demonstrated satisfactory preparation to implement an expanded
response by preparing a project which has the following characteristics:

     a) a national strategc plan showingunderstanding o fthe issues and goals for addressing them;

    b) national commitment andleadership, includingwell structured implementationarrangements;

     c) an implementation strategy that includes program execution through multiple ministries and
     through non-governmental organizations (NGOs), community groups and civil society organizations;
     and,

     d) clearly defined institutional arrangements for, and readiness to initiate, monitor and evaluate
     project progress andimpact.

15.      Credit Processinrr. The credit i s being processed as an emergency investment operation using
procedures under OP 8.50 - Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL) Procedures. However, the credit still
meets all applicable Bankpolicies, practices and standards as discussedbelow.

2. Projectdevelopmentobjective

16.      The overall objective o f the Project is to minimize the threat in Armenia posed to humans by
HPAI infection and other zoonoses in domestic poultry and prepare for the control and response to an
influenza pandemic and other infectious diseaseemergencies inhumans. To achieve this, three areaswill
be supported      (i) prevention, (ii)preparedness and planning and (iii)     response and containment.
Achieving these goals will contribute to diminishing the risk and burden of disease and loss o f
productivity in Armenia, limiting the regional spread o f HPAI, and enhancing economic and social
prospects at the national, regional, andglobal levels.

3. Projectcomponents

 17.     The Project will finance activities under four components: (i) health, (ii) health,
                                                                        animal            human
(iii) awarenessandimplementationsupport; and,(iv)criticalimports.Giventheurgencyofthe
      public
situation, and a financing gap identified during program preparation o f roughly US$2.5 million, the
project team reached agreement with GOA counterparts duringthe appraisal o f the project that the focus
of the current project would be primarily on activities able to be completed duringthe first two years o f
project implementation (through mid-2008). Thus, a reduction of roughly US$2.5 in project scope was
achieved byparingback some medium-ternactivities. Ifsufficient additionalparallel financing were not
forthcoming from other multilateral and bilateral sources over the course o f 2006, these pared back
activities could possibly be covered in a second phase o f the AI program in Armenia through a
supplemental IDA credit (and corresponding government budget funds) to be agreed oninthe future.


                                                      5

COMPONENT1 ANIMALHEALTH
                     -
18.       The Project will support activities to cover the needs in the short to medium-term, and rangmg
from prevention, to control and eradication of HPAI, which have been based on an assessment of the
particular conditions, constraints and possibilities inArmenia (including a rapid assessment o f veterinary
services and recent assessments o f the poultry sector by the FAO). These activities fall into the main
components and sub-components described below and total US$5.55 million.

A.        National Policy Framework and Development of a National Strategic Plan

          Al: Policy development and enabling environment. The Project activities' support will
include strategy development and the improvement of the regulatory framework to address key policy
issues and ensure that disease control, prevention and eradication measures are implemented ina uniform
and effective way inaccordance with OIE standards and guidelines. It will support definition of disease
control options and reviews o f existing regulations and policies and fund related policy studies, strategy
development and disseminationworkshops. The main short-term outputs will be a detailed assessment of
the capacity o f MOA veterinary services and an elaboration o f the AI Action Plan o f the MOA and the
MOH and National Strategy for AI into a strengthened national strategic plan for AI. Poultry sector
compensation and restructuring studies and a veterinary monitoring and information system will also be
supported. (US$ 0.18 million)

          A2: Updating Essential Information on Migratory Birds. Flight and rest patterns o f certain
species of migratory birds, as they concern the territory o f Armenia, are likely to have changed since the
extensive studies carried out in the 1970s and 1980s, because o f significant development of irrigation
facilities, ponds, etc., inthe southern oblasts. The project will finance an immediate effort to update this
critical information, so as to identify "hot spots" and high-risklocations where migratory fowl may come
into contact with domestic poultry. (US$0.07 million)

B.        Strengthening DiseaseSurveillance andDiagnostic Capacity Sub-component

          B1: Strengthening AnimalDiseaseSurveillance and Diagnostic Capacity. Project support in
this area will aim at strengthening the capacity o f the MOA Veterinary State Inspection P S I ) and its
affiliated reference and regional diagnostic laboratories in detection, reporting and follow-up o f reported
AIcases. Thiswill cover the immediate formation andequippingo f a Bio-Safety Level 3 (BSL3) central
laboratory in Yerevan, as well as office equipment and rehabilitation o f marz laboratories and border
posts. Rapidtest kits and consumables will be funded for the central laboratory, sprayers anddisinfection
means for the border posts, and vehicles for the VSI and marz levels as needed for the execution of their
relevantroles inthe National Strategy for AI. (USS2.61 million)

          B2: Veterinary Services Training.         Training will target the personnel o f the MOA VSI,
including those of the marz level and border posts. The focus o f the training will be on disease
surveillance (screening, sampling, and testing), outbreak management procedures (including simulation
exercises, culling and disposal), and laboratory diagnosis (including analysis o f epidemiological data and
performance o friskassessments). Increasedrisk-based AI surveillance activities will also be supported at
the marz level, coordinated through the VSI central laboratory. (US$ 0.16 million)

C.        Outbreak Containment Plan

 19.      The sub-component will provide support to activities related to the implementation o f the MOA
responsibilities under the National Strategy for AI which details the containment plan for AI outbreaks.


                                                      6

The National Strategy for AIdetails the roles of the National Center (NC) o f the MOA, the LocalDisease
Crisis Centers (LDCCs) set up on the basis of marz and raion-level Veterinary Inspection and Marz
Agricultural Departments, and National and Local Expert groups. The sub-component will include the
following activities.

         C1: Targeting virus eradication at the source. Early detection andreporting, as well as rapid
response, depend critically on the incentives for poultry owners to report very quickly any sick and dead
poultry to their veterinarians. For this to happen, adequate compensation arrangements are absolutely
essential. Inorder to target the eradication of the diseaseat the source of infection, the Project will target
the following activities over the short-to medium-term: (i)      culling o f infected and at-risk poultry and
compensation to farmers and producing companies at a reasonable (75% share) o f market price; and (ii)
disposal o f carcasses and potentially infective materials in a bio-secure and environmentally acceptable
manner (using a mobile incineration plant and a rehabilitated and expanded network o f bio-thermal
holes). The Government's National Strategy for AI makes reference to the right o f poultry owners to
receive compensationfor damages suffered as a result o f mandatory culling, but no steps have been taken
as yet to develop the required implementation arrangements - including financing, institutional
arrangements, legal authority over the fund, fiduciary aspects, eligibility criteria, payment arrangements,
flow o f funds, etc. Thus, the project will also provide technical support to develop these required
implementation arrangements, which will be specified ina Compensation Procedures Manual. (US$ 1.68
million)

         Policies associated with virus eradication that the Government of Armenia i s developing and
would trigger inoutbreak areas include: enhanced bio-security at poultry farms and associated premises,
through bio-containment and bioexclusion, and control o f movement o f birds and products that may be
infected, including controls at the interfaceo f infectednon-infected areas andborder controls.

         C2: Veterinary personnel safety. Due to the highly pathogenic nature of the HPAI virus to
humans, particularly the currently circulating H5N1 strain, this activity o f the project would provide bio-
safety hoods and other appropriate personal protective clothing support (over a three year period) to
veterinary personnel to be involved in the disease surveillance and culling and disposal procedures, as
well as to laboratory workers involvedinvirus isolationanddiagnosis. (US$0.20 million)

         C3: Restructuring the Poultry Sector. Restructuring the poultry sector inArmenia will focus
on improving bio-security o f backyard poultry raising and promoting manure management o f backyard
poultry in conformity with existing environmental regulations.         Improving bio-security o f backyard
poultry farming could take the form o f investments in improving penning of animals and closing up of
barns, integration o f backyard poultry activities o f families into small village-level. enterprises practicing
confined poultry raising, andpossibly o f banningunconfinedbackyardpoultry raising inprotectionbands
around known areas o f highprevalence o f migratory birds farms. This last mode would involve offering
 support for diversification o f family enterprise away from poultry raising into other activities. Since it
would be extremely costly for the state to fund widespread programs for poultry sector restructuring, the
 introductiono frestructuring modalities will be piloted under the Project (primarily inthe second andthird
years o f the project) with matching grants to be provided under a competitive proposal submission and
 award process (with at least 25% co-financing by private beneficiaries). Duringproject appraisal, a draft
 set of implementation arrangements was developed with the MOA. These will be elaborated as part o f
 the Project OperationalManual andupdated with the resultsof technical assistanceto be providedunder a
 PHRDGrant from the Government o fJapan'. (US$0.67 million)

 'The PHRDGrant from the Government ofJapancovers a wide range oftechnical assistance andtraining activities
 under the AnimalHealthcomponent, as well as under the HumanHealthand PublicAwareness and Implementation
 Support components.


                                                        7

COMPONENT2 HUMANHEALTH
                    -

20.     Following the outbreak o f Avian Influenza in both humans and animals across the border with
Turkey, the MOH inArmenia has been proactive inpartnering with other ministries as part of the Inter-
Ministerial Task Force (IMTF) that was set up in October 2005 and in devising an Action Plan for AI
preparedness and response in December 2005. The MOH has also instituted a series o f measures to
mitigate the risk of introduction and further transmission o f the HPAIinto Armenia. Most o f the measures
entail activities geared towards increased vigilance in border posts, e.g., screening passengers, banning
importation o f poultry and its products, disinfecting incoming vehicles, immunizing high risk groups
against human influenza, procuring test kits, anti-viral medicine and information, education and
communication (IEC) material, and collaboratingwith UNagencies (WHO andUNICEFinparticular).

21.     Infurther developing this response inthe public healthfield, an appropriate balance needs to be
struck between short-term crisis responses and medium-term actions to address systemic shortcomings
with respect to core public health functions. The crisis measures include actions such as strengthened
logistical support, prevention through further immunization o f high-risk groups, and symptomatic case
management with anti-viral drugs. The medium-term measuresinclude routine and active surveillance in
areas of AI outbreaks in poultry and case finding and ascertainment through serological testing and
virological sub-typing.Buildingan effective national public healthresponse inthe medium term will also
require an enabling environment and the necessary resources to bring proven interventions up to
nationwide scale.

22.      Thus, the Project will help in the short-term to operationalize some elements that are
contemplated as part o f the global strategic plan, expanding and intensifying these responses in the
medium-term, As it i s unlikely that the global spread o f a pandemic influenza virus could be prevented
once it emerges, the emphasisi s onreducing its impact. Several tools will help achieve this aim: (i)  year-
round surveillance; (ii) effective and accurate methods o f diagnosis; (iii) distance interventions; (iv)
                                                                           social
vaccines (once they become available); (v) anti-viral drugs; and (vi) strengthened medical services. The
interventions supported under the Project are based on Armenia's epidemiological and programmatic
needs, and well-assessed options for meeting them. The interventions will be grouped in three sub-
components, totaling US$2.75 million.

A.       EnhancingPublicHealthProgramPlanningand Coordination

23.      The human health sections o f the National Strategy for AI developed by the MOH are quite
comprehensive in scope incovering the activities that need to be undertaken during the inter-pandemic,
pre-pandemic and pandemic alert phases, clearly identifying the responsible agency for each measure at
different stages o f an eventual pandemic. However, the agencies in charge of implementation do not
currently have the organizational and logistical means to implement the plan (i-e., trained personnel,
protective gear, transport, andinformation and communications equipment). These are to be provided as
quickly as possible under the project, Inaddition, it i s not clear if the current legislative and regulatory
framework allows for drastic measures such as social distancing and deployment o f the health workforce
under emergency conditions. These will be supported under the project through medium-term technical
assistance, which will also target MOH to buildits institutional and logistic capacity to participate inthe
Inter-Ministerial Committee for AI and to coordinate the implementation o f the National Strategy for AI
withthe MOA and other sector representatives. (US$ 1.05 million)

B.       StrengtheningofNationalPublicHealthSurveillanceSystems

24.      In Armenia, the State Hygiene and Anti-Epidemic Inspectorate (San-Epid) of the MOH is
responsible for all disease surveillance activities. In addition to its central office, the agency has 10


                                                     8

regional centers and 7 centers situated in Yerevan. The existing surveillance system is organised in a
vertical way following the vertical organization o f health programmes. Health workers at the primary
levelreport to the marz level for a first analysis. The aggregate data i s then sent to central level. There are
no standard case definitions, so notifiable diseases are reported based on each clinician's judgement.
Routine surveillance data are sent on a monthly basis, while any urgent problem representing a health
threat must immediately be reportedto the marz levelbymeans o fpaper ("emergency card") or telephone
call. Human influenza i s a notifiable disease and, as such, i s part o f the regular surveillance activities
which involves monthly reporting o f all cases to the central office. However, at present there i s no
standard case definition-for Influenza Like Illness (ILI)nor any set criteria for more fkequent reporting in
case o f an outbreak.

25.      Inaddition, diagnostic facilities are limited. The central San-Epid laboratory does not have the
diagnostic capability, nor the required bio-safety level facilities for virus isolation and sub-typing.
Accordingly, the MOH has designated the Genetic Centre of the National Academy o f Science as the
National Influenza Center. The protocols and guidelines for active case surveillance in the case o f an
outbreak, detection o f suspect cases, case ascertainment and reporting need to be defined and adopted, as
well as all the training and information, education, and communication (EC) activities that need to be
carried out in order to render surveillance activities more effective. Consequently, the sub-component
will support the following: improvementso f laboratory networks, improvement o f health information and
telecommunication systems, training o f personnel at MOH and other selected agencies, and development
o f standard reporting forms and guidelines. (US$0.61 million)

C.       StrengtheningHealthSystemResponseCapacity

26.      Aggressive containment measures such as isolation if ILIand confirmed cases, and prophylactic
use o f antiviral drugs may slow pandemic spread and allow time for response measures. Although mass
vaccination is the preferredintervention, an efficacious vaccine may not be ready andor available for use
as part o f a large-scale vaccination campaign soon enough to contain the pandemic. Anti-viral supply and
production capacity are also limited. Thus, the project will help MOH to strengthen health system
response capacity with: expanded regular seasonal flu vaccination as a vital step to prevent an outbreak
among humans; anti-virals o f sufficient quantity for prevention o f influenza inthose groups at highestrisk
such as poultry fanners, healthcare workers, children, those in close contact with confirmed cases, etc.;
and with prophylactic and preventive equipment and supplies for patient care inthe intensive care unit of
the Infectious Disease reference hospital and for active case detection. This sub-component will also
 finance procurement o f human influenza vaccines for administration to highrisk populations and o f new
 vaccines shouldthere be available against avian influenza inhumans. (US$ 1.09million)

 COMPONENT3 PUBLICAWARENESSAND IMPLEMENTATIONSUPPORT
                     -
 27.     This component will support strategic communication activities for stakeholders and
beneficiaries. Similarly, resources will be allocated for improved coordination between the MOA'S
regulatory framework andthe roles of other ministries inthe National Strategy for AI.

 A.      PublicAwarenessthroughInformationand CommunicationServices

 28.     Support under this sub-component will be provided for the research, design, implementation and
 evaluation o f an integrated communications strategy, addressing the needs o f priority populations at the
national, marz and community levels. The strategy will elevate knowledge and promote behavior-change
 inpopulations at-risk, to control the spread of the virus, prevent infection, foster timely reporting and
 support containment actions. At the same time, the strategy will educate vulnerable groups on
 preparedness plans and mitigation measures across pre-pandemic and pandemic phases.                        The


                                                      9

communications strategy will incorporate measures called for in the Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) for safe culling and disposal of backyard poultry (US$0.3 1million).

B.      CoordinationandImplementationSupport

29,     The multi-dimensional problems associatedwith HPAI infection necessitate collaboration fiom a
wide range o f stakeholders within each country, which in Armenia include: the Ministry o f Finance and
Economy, the Ministry or Territorial Affairs, the Ministry of Nature Protection, the MOA, the MOH,
their associated diagnostic laboratories, NGOs and civil society organizations, and private sector
companies and associations (e.g. large poultry production companies, farmers' associations, veterinarians
and farmer involvement at the grass roots level). The sub-component will support activities to improve
the effective coordination and collaboration among these stakeholders and to bolster project
implementation and monitoring capacity at existing project implementation structures in the MOA and
MOH(US$0.62 million).

        B1.      NationalCoordination

30.     The Inter-Ministerial Committee for Avian Influenza (which supervises the work o f the Inter-
Ministerial Task Force for Avian Influenza) will establish a Secretariat' to implement the national
awareness activities described above. It will be responsible for reviewing annual work plans and ensure
coordination and linkages across relevant agencies and international partners. InAI outbreak situations, it
will be in charge of triggering emergency responses by MOA and MOH, monitoring the actions taken,
and coordinating public statements to the media. The Secretariat will be comprised o f a Director, two
Science Officers (spanning animal and human health issues), and a Public Information and
Communications specialist. These staff wouldbe contracted under the project. (US$ 0.11million)

        B2.      ProjectImplementation

31.     The Apculture Reform Support Project Implementation Unit (ARSP PIU) o f the MOA (which
currently implements the Rural Enterprise and Small Scale Commercial Agriculture Development
Project) and the Project Implementation Unito fthe Health Systems ModernizationProject (HSMP) inthe
MOHwill be entrusted with the fiduciary tasks o f procurement and financial management. The relevant
structures will be strengthened with additional fiduciary staff ineach Unit. Both the MOA and the MOH
will appoint Project Coordinators to liaise with the ARSP PIUandMOHHSMPPIU, respectively, andto
prepare annual work programs and budgets as well as semi-annual interim unaudited financial reports.
The Project Coordinatorswill manage the respective components for which their ministryis responsible
and attend the regular meeting o f the Secretariat and the periodic meetings o f the Inter-Ministerial
Committee for Avian Influenza. The ARSP PW will be responsible for consolidating the annual work
plans, budgets, and financial reports for submission to the Secretariat andthe Bank. (US$0.37 million)

32.     At the local level, implementation would be the direct responsibility o f each Marz Committee.
Under marz task forces would be established under these Marz Committees and would implement the
functions of Local Disease Crisis Centers(LDCCs) asnoted inthe National Strategy for AI.

        33: MonitoringandEvaluation@WE)

33.     Support would be providedto enable projectmonitoring and impact evaluation assessments. Two
types o f M&E are envisaged. First, the ARSP PIU and the MOH HSMP PIUwould collect relevant data
fiom their ministries and other implementation agencies and then compile them into semi-annual progress

 The Secretariat of the Task Force will also play the role o fthe NDCC -National Disease Crisis Center.


                                                          10

reports focusing on output indicators and the status of physical implementation by component and use of
project funds. For some output indicators, specific surveys will need to be conducted to obtain data for
this purpose. These would be financed by the Project. As for the financial reports (noted above), the
ARSP PIUwill be responsible for consolidatingthe ministerial progress reports into an integratedProject
progress report. (US$ 0.13 million)

34.      Impact evaluation reports. The aim o f evaluation is to find out whether the interventions are
effective or the program is having the desired impact. The evaluation will include both quantitative and
qualitative aspects and be conducted on a yearly basis. The quantitative aspects will rely on new
information systems and surveys implemented as part o f the various components o f the project, currently
existing data sources, and primary evaluative data collection efforts. The goal o f the qualitative aspect of
the evaluation will be to document perceptions o f program managers, staff, patients, and local and
national leaders. Qualitative information will be collected using site-visit interviews, focus groups, and
respondent surveys.

COMPONENT4 SUPPORT FORCRITICALIMPORTS
                      -
35.      This component would finance,       under Emergency Recovery Assistance (ERA) procedures, a
positive list o f critically needed imports identified as necessary to a response program inthe event an AI
human pandemic were to occur. This list includes protective clothing and gear, pharmaceuticals and
vaccines, and medical and veterinary supplies and equipment. This component may be expanded in
future for other items on the positive list (as to be agreed on by the Bank in the case o f a pandemic).
Under ERA procedures, critical imports would be procured through organized international commodity
markets (in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.68 o f the Guidelines) or other channels o f
procurementacceptable to the Bank.

4.       Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design

36.      Relevant lessons for the design o f the proposed operationhave been drawn from previous World
BanklIDA and FAO-supported emergency recovery projects. All these experiences and lessons learned
have been taken into account in the design o f the GPAI. These included the Vietnam Avian Influenza
Emergency Recovery Project (approved in early FY05 under OP 8.50 procedures), which was the first
project that has been approved by the Bank inresponse to Avian Influenza. Under the GPAI, projects for
Kyrgyzstan and Nigeria have been prepared and approved over December 2005-March 2006, and a
 similar project for Turkey has been negotiated. The structure and content o f the projects have been
 consulted thoroughly inthe elaborationo fthe Armenia AIP project.

 37.     The lessons learned indicate that project success depends to a large extent on the speed o f the
response provided and, particularly when dealing with smallholders' production systems, a speedy,
efficient and transparent distribution o f suitable key inputs i s clearly a major factor inlimitingthe impact
 of a crisis and hastening recovery. A performance audit o f some o f the emergency projects supported by
the Bank in various regons drew the following general lessons: (i)           emergency projects should avoid
policy conditionality; (ii)   project design must be simple and take into account a realistic assessment o f
 the existing Borrower's capacity; (iii)   a speedy appraisal and approval are crucial to provide a prompt
response and a substantial contribution to project success; (iv) procurement arrangements need to be
 flexible and should be finalized at an early stage; (v)mitigation and prevention measures should be
 included in the design to minimize impacts o f a possible recurrence o f the disaster; and (vi)realistic
 assessments should be made o f counterparts absorption capacity, as well as o f the effective
 communications andcoordination mechanisms among all relevant stakeholders.




                                                       11

38.       Even though the Vietnam Avian Influenza Emergency Recovery Project has been in
implementation for only about one year (effective on November 9, 2004), the main recommendations
arising from its implementationhave beenthe following:

(a) Preparedness is a key factor. While Vietnam had a national strategy document to control Avian
Influenza in the domestic poultry population, it was not clearly understood and shared by all relevant
agencies and stakeholders and some aspectso fthe responsehave been laggingbehind.

(b) A two-pronged strategy is recommended. This should include: (i) control o f Avian Influenza at
                                                                         the
the source in high-risk regions (through aggressive measures including culling, movement control and
vaccination campaigns for poultry and ducks); and (ii)           simultaneously prepare with short and
medium-term measuresto minimize the risks to humans andprepare for an eventual pandemic.

(c) A "compensation framework" i s an essential element to obtain real cooperation from affected
stakeholders (farmerslproducers) and to ensure the efficacy o f the surveillance and diagnosis mechanisms.

(d) The importance of strengthening the technical, scientific and operational capacity of the relevant
participating agencies should not be overlooked. The AI crisis highlighted several weaknesses in the
animal health as well as public health services systems, including: poor surveillance at the local level,
weak diagnostic capacity, lack of epidemiological expertise and information system, and inadequate
operatingbudget to bear the additional costs o fcontaining the spreadof AI.

(e) There is a urgent need to organize an effective national response, including all technical ministries in
charge o f agriculturelanimal healthandhumanhealth, as well as other relevant sectors, at the national and
sub-national level, incase of a human epidemic,

(f) It i s extremely important to raise awareness inthe public andprivate sectors fiom the initial moments,
and to strengthen effective coordination mechanisms for the implementation o f the necessary technical
responses, involvingthe Government, the donor community, the private sector and the civil society.

(g) Attention should be given to support the integration o f each country to a regional and global
framework for the control o f HPAI, and more broadly o f all trans-boundary animal diseases and other
emerginginfectious diseases, to increase cost-effectiveness and ensure the harmonization o f activities and
responses

39.       Intermsofpublichealth, thefollowingrelevantlessonswerederived&om emergencyoperations:

     e    Key data needs should be anticipated and infrastructure developed to provide information that
    reducesthe number o f assumptions ("what is not known i s as important as stating what i s known").
     e    The program should include mileposts for periodic re-evaluation, so that necessary changes can
    be made basedonnew information.
     e    External reviews o f the program should be conducted periodically to increase objectivity and
     improve decision-making.
     e    Ensure that all localities are able to respond to a pandemic and implement mass vaccination
    programs effectively. Provide fundingto regional andlocal levels for preparedness and infiastructure
     development coupled with guidance and technical support. National oversight and assistance is
     importantto assure nationwideprotection and consistency of the response.
     e    Surveillance systems should be in place, preferably,             before starting the program.
     Communications materials should be developed to educate health care providers andthe public.




                                                     12

5.       Alternativesconsideredandreasonsfor rejection

40.      Restructure of and "additional financing" to existing projects. An alternative that was
considered was only to restructure ongoing projects and inject financing, in the form o f additional
financing (a new IDA credit) to support the implementation of the activities contemplated under this
Project. After considering this option, it was decided that the importance o f the issue and the need to
scale-up the response at the country-level, requires additional focus and impetus to facilitate the
implementation o f priority activities. A separate project option allows for the establishment o f a broader
policy framework and alternative mechanisms to manageresource use andmonitor the implementation of
activities. More specifically, a separate project allows the preparation o f a multi-sectoral national plan
that includes the engagement o f different governmental institutions and civil society, as well as scaled up
efforts to serve the entire population. This will also facilitate advocacy and communication to mobilize
political support at the highest political level needed for mounting effective and sustainable prevention
and control efforts.

C.       IMPLE~ENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

41.      The Bank andthe international community can play a key role inthe response to AI, especially at
the country levelwhere there is a needto develop an overall framework to guide national actionplansthat
can be the basis for government and donor support. Such a framework should address both animal and
public healthaspectsas well as economic impact. Many o f the investments needed to addressthis disease
are core public health and animal health functions that are considered "public goods". The cross-border
dimension o f Avian Influenza also necessitates a regional response with support from the international
community.

42.
technical agencies -- WHO for public health and FAOlOIE for animal health. For example, FA0 has a
         Armenia is receiving support on the technical content o f an Avian Influenza response from key

regional Technical CooperationPrograms (TCPs) inthe ECAregion, inwhich Armenia participates. The
program's primary objective i s to strengthen the capacity for generating and sharing HPAI disease
intelligence and emergency preparedness planning. The program's interactionwith Armenia will, among
other activities, target improved knowledge o f migratory birds' role in HPAItransmission, strengthened
laboratory capacity for HPAIdiagnosis, and support for a National AIStrategic Plan inArmenia.

43.      Currently, the EUhas established a task force to address AI and is considering the allocation of
funds into the multi-donor TF to be coordinatedby the Bank. The degree to which Armenia will be able
to access the multi-donor TF will be known in May 2006. The Bank has discussed the overall program
supported by the AIHP project with the EU, the Government o f Japan, the U S Agency for International
Development, and other international stakeholders at length, and is in the process o f receiving
endorsement for making grant financing available to Armenia to support the wider program. The Bank
project team and ECA management will seek to reach agreement on identified grant financing duringthe
 course o f early April 2006.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

44.      The Project will be implemented by existing project implementation structures in the MOA and
the MOH, However, institutional and implementation arrangements will be coordinated by the prime
Minister who is the chairman o f Inter-Ministerial Committee for Avian Influenza (under which a
 Secretariat is to be established). This Committee has been established to deal with zoonotic emergencies


                                                     13

and will provide general policies and guidelines for Project implementation. The Committee comprises
representatives of the MOA, the RepublicanAgricultural Support Center (MSC), the MOH, the Ministry
o f Nature Protection, the Ministry o f Territorial Administration, the National Police, the National
Academy o f Sciences, the Armenian State Agrarian University, and the Union o f Veterinarians (an
NGO). The Committee will be responsible for reviewing annual work plans and the Secretariat will be
responsible for ensuringcoordination and linkages acrossrelevant agenciesandinternationalpartners.

45.     Since the Bank is financing both agricultural sector and health sector projects in Armenia, the
existingproject implementation structures within the MOA (the ARSP PIU) and the MOH (the HSMP
PIU) will be entrusted with fiduciary tasks o f procurement and financial management. (Additional staff
will to be recruited inthe ARSP PIU and the MOHHTP PIU as needed for these fiduciary tasks.) One
senior officer from the MOA and one from the MOHwill be designated as Project Coordinators incharge
of managing implementation o f their relevant ministries' project activities and liaising with the ARSP
PIUand MOHRSMP PIU, respectively. These Project Coordinators will report to the Secretariat of the
Committee and be members of the Committee. The Secretariat will recruit staff responsible for overall
administration, public information, and coordination o f scientific issues related to animal and human
health.

46.     At the local level, implementation will be the direct responsibility o f each Marz Committee,
including representatives of departments o f Agriculture and Health. The Marz Committees will be
strengthened to set up marz task forces (small coordination units) comprising representatives from the
Marz Agricultural and Health departments and veterinary experts to work under the supervision and
guidance o f the national Secretariat. A Project Operational Manual (POM) i s being prepared to integrate
the relevant aspects of the National Strategy for AI. This POM will guide the management and
implementation o f the Project.

3. Monitoring andevaluation of outcomeslresults

47.     Monitoringand evaluation (M&E) activities relatedto the project will be the responsibility of the
ARSP PIU and the MOH HSMP PIU, with the participation o f the staff o f the departments o f the MOA
and MOH. These two implementation units have built up M&E capacity, but some detailed surveys for
M&Ewould be contracted out. Monitoringprojectprogress andthe achievement ofobjectives will entail
a process for reviewing continuously and systematically the various project implementation activities.
The purpose o f the M&E activities are to: (i)measureinput, output and outcome indicators (see Annex 3);
(ii) informationregularlyonprogresstowardachievingresultsandfacilitatingreportingtothe
    provide
government and the Bank (iii)    alert managers, both in government and the Bank, to actual or potential
problems in implementation so that adjustments can be made; (iv) determine whether the relevant
stakeholders are responding as expected and intended by the project; and (v) provide a process whereby
the coordinating and executing bodiescan reflect andimprove on their performance.

48.     The results o f relevant M&E activities will be reflected inthe semi-annual and annual progress
reports. The progress reports will cover the progress with the works, the institutional activities, training
and studies, performance indicators, and financial management reports (FMR). A section o f the progress
reports will be devoted to issues identifiedduringproject implementation and the strategies and actions to
be taken to resolve such issues that affect progress. The second semi-annual report o f each year will be
an annual report, providing information o fthe progress duringthe past year.

49.     A comprehensive Mid-Term Progress Report will be prepared roughly half-way through project
implementation (byNovember 15,2007). This report would support the Mid-Term Review exercise to be
carried out by the Borrower and the Bankto discuss the experience accumulated duringthe first two years
of implementation and to discuss possible adjustment to the project design, implementation schedule and


                                                    14

expected outcomeslresults. Similarly, a final Evaluation Report should be prepared after the project
completion (May 31, 2009) providing detailed information on the accumulated impacts achieved by the
project as well as the main lessonslearnedthat could serve for similar operations outside the country.

4. Sustainability

50.     Critical to the sustainability o f the Project would be the continuous ownership o f this initiative by
the various stakeholders, coupledwith strong political support and the availability o f an adequate flow o f
financial resources to carry out project activities. Inaddition, institutional sustainability would be ensured
by: (i) strengtheningo f programs to maintain public awareness o f the threat of avian influenza and other
rapid spreading infectious diseases; (ii)     sustained surveillance and prevention and control activities,
particularly inhighriskregions; (iii)  strengthened country capacity to manage at national and local levels
the risk factors associated with the spread o f avian influenza and other infectious diseases; and (iv)
effectiveness o f programs to controlthe spreado f avian influenza from birdsto the general population.

5. Critical risks and possible controversialaspects


              R I S K                RATING                       MITIGATIONMEASURE
FromOutputsto Objective
Decline inpolitical commitment            M        Continuing support for inter-country collaboration
to AI andto the threat o fa                        through information exchanges, dialogue, and
global influenza pandemic.                         mobilization o f international commitment andresources.
Project implementing agencies             M        Adequate implementation arrangements inplace as a
do not have sufficient authority,                  pre-condition o f Bankfinancing; careful monitoring o f
leadership, and capacity to take                   leadership andproject management duringproject
leadingrole inAI prevention                        implementation; technical assistanceand training.
and control.
Intervention activities not                S       Project activities will strengthen response capacity in
effective incontainingthe                          selected priority areas inthe short- andmediumterms
spread o fAvian Influenza from                     and lay the foundations for a broader-based strategy,
birdsto the humanpopulation.                       including broad awarenessand communication
                                                   campaigns criticalto containingthe spread o f AI.
                                                   Interventionswell designed, phased, and carefully
                                                   monitored, allowing for modifications andredesign as
                                                   needed. Good    M&Eto                              -
                                                                             flag emerging issues
Inadequate or lack of multi-              M        Inter-Ministerial Committee overseeing the program is
sectoral participation                             selected to be representative and given visibility; annual
                                                   work programmingtransparent.
Low local-level commitment                M        Implementation mechanisms explicitly address local
means that strong central                          decisionmaking, communication strategies include
commitment does not translate                      decentralizedauthorities as targets.
into action on the ground.
FromComponentsto Outputs
Controlling the spreado fthe              M        Project will support advocacy and coalition buildingto
pandemic may expose the                            sensitize key groups including policy makers and the
 government to criticism for the                   media. This will be complementedbycarefully
 curtailment o f civilrightsdue to                 designed mass communication campaigns to build
the adoptiono f quarantines and                    support for the project among the wider population
 other relatedmeasures.


                                                       15

Lack o f laboratory capacity for        S      Projectactivities will be coordinatedwith efforts
prompt diagnosis and                           undertakenby other international organizations
surveillance and o f sufficient
quantity o f drugs and other
medical inputsneededto
address the needs o f the general
population duringa pandemic
Inadequate institutional capacity              Capacity buildingandinstitutional development as one
to manage project andperform           M       o fthe project's key objectives.
effectively
Financialresources not                 M       Rapid disbursement procedures and simplifiedpublic
accessible ina timely manner,                  sector procurement inaccordance with OP for
weak procurementmanagement                     emergency operations.
Lack o f timely andpredictable         M       Project activities are designed and implementedwith
access to expert advice and                    leadingmultilateral agencies such as FA0 and WHO;
technical support                              regional bodies such as the EuropeanUnion; and
                                               bilateral and other donor oreanizations.
Low priority given to public            S      Transparency indecisionandresource allocation;
accountability and transparency                strengthened fiduciary riskmitigationthrough
inprogrammanagement {e.g.                      community involvement for the activities financed by
Compensation Fundand Poultry                   the Compensation Fundand Poultry Sector
Sector RestructuringFund.)                     RestructuringFund; and, publication of audit results and
                                               achievements.
Inadequate capacity for planned         S      Technical assistanceandpartnershipbetweenlocal
.surveillance, surveys and                     organizations and internationalinstitutions will be
monitoring and evaluation                      provided. M&Eplan will include informationon
                                               instruments for data collection, agencies responsible and
                                               a detailedtime table

Risk Rating - H(HighRisk), S {S bstantial R k), M(Modest Risk), N(Negligble or Low Risk)
Overall RiskRating:                   M I S


51.      Inadditionto the riskmitigation measuresnotedabove, the Projectwillplace strongemphasis on
disclosure and transparency, complaint handling mechanisms coupled with specific remedial measures,
and generally strengthened fiduciary risk mitigation. The corollary benefits regarding good governance
 are self-evident. The following measures are incorporated in project design to minimize the possible
misuse o f funds:

    Ex-ante controls. Appropriate ex-ante internal controls in the poultry culling and compensation
    program {outlined inAnnexes 4b and h e x 7) will be implemented before any disbursement of
    Bank resources for the Compensation Fund, and ex-ante checks will be carried out before
    compensationpayments are made,
    Annual operationu2 reviews. To supplement the annual project audit, an annual operational
    review will be camed out by external reviewers, acceptable to the Bank, who will review the
    internal control framework andprocedures, especially for the Compensation Fundcomponent, and
    the inventories o f drugs, vaccines, medical and veterinary equipment, and other sensitive andor
    expensive assets.
    Prior review of procurement. Project procurement will be subject to prior-review in accordance
    withthe Bank's procurement guidelines andwiththresholds levelindicatedinAnnex 7.




                                                    16

0    Complaints mechanisms. A strengthened complaint handling mechanism, especially for the
    Compensation Fund component implementation, will be put in place to handle complaints
    regardingalleged misuse o f funds.
0    Transparency and public infor~ation. Information about project activities will be continually
    postedon a Project website.
0   Intensive supervision by the Bank. The project, includingprocurement and financial management
     activities, will be intensively supervised by Bank staff in the Country Office and by periodic
     supervisionmissions.

52.      Possible Controversial Aspects.          The Project will support the implementation o f
immediate responses to an influenza pandemic -- the classic "social distancing measures"-- such as
quarantine, bans on mass gatherings, and travel restrictions that may be politically and socially
controversial. This means that dialogue and compromises are needed among different stakeholders,
backed by a well-designed communication strategy. A highdegree o fpolitical commitment to preventing
and controlling the spread o f infectious diseases such as an influenza pandemic would be needed for
managingcontroversies that will undoubtedlyarise.

6. Main credit conditions

53.      The key conditions needed to minimize the risks to the Project have beenaddressedby Armenia's
having already met the eligibility requirements for entering the GPAI(noted inpara. 14 above). An inter-
ministerial AI Action Plan was developed inlate 2005, and a National Strategy for AI was drafted by the
GOA in January 2006. (The National Strategy for AI was then approved the President o f Armenia on
April 20, 2006). An Inter-Ministerial Committee on AI has been established, and its associated Task
Force meets weekly (at the operational level o f participating ministries, agencies and, NGOs). Specific
provisions have been developed during project preparation which meet Bank requirements covering
organization and staffing o f program units, management arrangements, provisions for procurement and
financial management, and institutional arrangements for monitoring and evaluatingproject progress and
impact. These were confirmed duringProject appraisal. Inaddition, the MOA and MOH have prepared
an actionplanfor the first year ofproject implementation which is satisfactory to the Bank.

54.      The conditions o f effectiveness for the Credit would be that: (i) Borrower has appointed the
                                                                           the
head of the Secretariat o f the Inter-Ministerial Committee for Avian Influenza; (ii)   the Borrower has
appointed Project Component Coordinators with terms o f reference and experience satisfactory to the
Bank and (ii)    a project OperationalManual, satisfactory to the Bank has been adoptedbythe Borrower.

55.      A disbursement condition for the Animal Health component is the adoption by the Borrower of
an Environmental Management Plan satisfactory to the Bank.              Disbursement conditions for the
Compensation Fundsub-component are that: (i)      the Compensation Fundhas beenestablished ina manner
 satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) the Compensation Procedures Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been
adoptedby the Borrower; and, (iii)    the Compensation Fundpayments are being made inaccordance with
criteria and procedures set forth inthe Compensation Procedures Manual. A disbursement condition for
the poultry restructuring co-financing grants is that the Poultry Restructuring Sub-projects are being
 selected and implemented in accordance with criteria and procedures set forth inthe Project Operational
Manual. A disbursement condition for the CriticalImports component i s that the Borrower has declared a
national emergency on avian influenza and adopted a well-defined emergency recovery program
 satisfactory to the Bank. Inaddition, the Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the project andreport on its
progress through semi-annual Project Reports and prepare a mid-term review report by November 15,
 2007.




                                                     17

D.      APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic analysis

56.     Neither the timingnor the severity o f the next pandemic can be predicted, but with the virus now
endemic inbirdpopulations inAsia, the risk will not be easily diminished. The emergence of a human
influenza pandemic causedby a lethal viruswould have a social and economic impact many times greater
than the impact on the poultry sector. This would be through the costs associatedwith public and private
efforts to prevent the emergence or spread of the disease in humans and to treat its effects and the
economic consequences o f sickness or death resulting from the disease outbreaks. However, the much
more uncertain predictability o f a human pandemic has caused the economic analysis o f the Project to
focus on the economic losses inthe poultry sector

57.     Inthis treatment ofHPAI as an animal healthissue, actions to be takenbyArmenia are analyzed
usingthe traditional "without project" and "with project" scenarios. Underthe "without project" case, the
low capacity o f government and the poultry industry to deal with outbreaks causes the sector to be
increasingly vulnerable to a catastrophic AI occurrence.        This catastrophic event (CE) would be
characterized by multiple, simultaneous outbreaks leading to a spread of the disease to large sections of
the country's poultry flock, and eventually to a long-term reduction of the sector by 2040%. This i s
caused by massive public aversion to poultry consumption leading to a significant and sustained drop in
prices and demand for poultry.

58.     Under the "with project" scenario, the probability o f the CE is reduced gradually to roughly two-
thirdsof that under the "without project" scenario (after five years). The stream of expected costs inthis
scenario is calculated by multiplyingthese probabilities with the respective net present values o f costs,
Given project expenditures o f US$ 9.2 million, the analysis yields an NPV of $ 37.2 million and an
internal rate o f return o f 69.9 %. (Annex 8 presents a detailed discussion o f the economic analysis and
calculation of the project's NPV.)

2. Technical

59.      Animal Health. The successful implementation o f the program depends on a phased multi-
disciplinary strategy based on a sound epidemiological approach to control HPAI outbreaks.                This
strategy has to take into consideration a broad range o f epidemiological scenarios that exist in different
poultry production systems inthe affected countries and different levels o f incidence (ranging from high
incidence with variable flock outbreaks, though low frequency disease outbreaks with partial flock
immunity, to sporadic outbreaks).      A balanced combination o f appropriate disease-control options,
tailored to the specific characteristics of each country and its farming systems i s essential for the
achievement of the program objectives.

60.      The implementation of the Project raises important technical issues and presents substantial
challenges. Key issues include the following:

   e     Thecapacity of thepublic andprivate veterinaryservices. The Armenian veterinary services are
   inadequately equipped andtrained to deal with HPAI and the potentially large scope, severity andrapid
   spreado f any outbreaks. This i s evident acrossthe entire range o f critical capabilities: surveillance and
   diagnostic capacity for early detection and reporting o f outbreaks, monitoring the disease, rapid
   response and implementation o f the required control measures within and around the outbreaks, and
   essentialresearchto understandhow the disease develops ina particular situation.




                                                    18

  e     Adequate regulatory and incentiveframework. The current legal and regulatory framework is
  incomplete, not fully consistent internally, and inmany instances poorly aligned with actual physical,
  technical and staff capacities on the ground. Amendments will be needed, therefore, to the veterinary
  law, to various decrees governing emergency situations as well as highlydangerous animal diseases, to
  regulations concerning institutional responsibilities and the like.     In addition, the legal basis for
  effective compensation being provided to livestock owners will need to be put in place urgently to
  ensure good governance, transparent allocationo fresources andprobity incompensation payments.

  e     Laboratoryfacilities and staff capabilities. As a consequence o f the Soviet legacy and 15 years
  of post-Soviet resource scarcity, most laboratory facilities are outdated and severely lacking inmodern
  equipment needed to discharge critical diagnostic functions.           Staff expertise, likewise, needs
   substantial upgrading. With the help o f experts from FA0 and WHO and utilizing information and
  guidelines provided by WHO and OIE, the critical deficiencies have been identified and will be
   addressedby the Project.

   e    Bio-security measures. Bio-containment measures to prevent the spread o f the virus from
   infected premises and bio-exclusion measures to exclude the virus from uninfected locations are
   essential, but have often proven to be difficult to implement effectively. The lack o f capacity and
   experience inpracticing effective measuresi s one o f the mainreasons for the persistence o f the disease
   and its spread inthe world. It will be critical to develop and practice effective implementation under
   the specific conditions o f Armenia and to develop and institutionalize efficient coordination among
   local and national institutions, agencies and services.

   e     Epidemiological expertise. Incorporating epidemiological and epizoological studies linked to
   disease control programs, so as to generate quantitative and geo-referenced data on infection and
   transmission dynamics, is another key success factor. Scarce scientific expertise limits the availability
   of modem methodologes andtools, andthe project will support initiatives to address this weakness.

   e     Wildlrespecies and reservoirsare a source of HPAI. Some species o fmigratory birdsappear to
   have played a role inthe transmission o f the H5N1 virus to domestic poultry. Armenia i s an important
   stop-over place on the flyways of a broad range o f migratory birds and for many of them their main
   wintering location. The country therefore faces significant risk. It is very difficult to apply bio-
   security measures aimed at avoiding contact between migratory and other wild birds and domestic
   poultry, particularlywhere, as inArmenia, backyardpoultry is widely practiced anddomestic birds are
   allowed to roam freely. Inthese circumstances, it i s likely to prove very difficult, ifnot impossible, to
   completely eradicate the HPAIvirus, but the project will place heavy emphasis on efforts to minimize
   the contact between wild and domestic birds.

   e     Poor coordination among public agencies and weak linkages with the private sector.
   Ineffective coordination among ministries and public agencies, as well as weak linkages with the
   private sector, are major impediments to long-term planningfor infectious disease control. Given the
   zoonotic and transboundary nature of HPAI, a well coordinated public-private response i s essential.
   The project will seek to establish efficient coordination arrangements andmechanisms.

59.      Public Health   -  Technical Considerations. In terms o f public health, the swine influenza
experience provides a benchmark for decision-making and public health response to the threat o f an
influenza pandemic. Yet, how relevant are the experiences and lessons of 1976 for a pandemic response
today? Substantial changes in public health preparedness and infrastructure, in vaccine manufacturing
and delivery, and in society have occurred which will affect a pandemic response.               International
surveillance for influenza and the strains that cause infection is much stronger than in 1976. The



                                                      19

additional surveillance data available today will provide a much stronger basis for assessingthe likelihood
o f a pandemic, Experience has shown that new influenza strains can cause clusters of human diseases
without becoming widespread.       Improvements also have been made in public health preparedness
planning, andcommunications betweenthe different levelsofahealth system.

60.     Despite these changes, many o f the lessons from the swine influenza experience remain relevant
and, as demonstrated by the experience implementing smallpox vaccination, remain as significant
challenges. The need to identify adverse effects following vaccination as coincidental or causal also
remained problematic. Separating risk assessment and risk management, conduct o f external program
reviews, improved communications planning, and strong surveillance for vaccine safety all are areas
where the lessons of swine influenza were appropriately appliedinthe smallpox program.

61.     Lessons from swine influenza also were considered in developing the pandemic influenza
preparedness and response plan under the Global Program for Avian Influenza. The importance of
planning by Armenia's MOH at the different levels o f the system during the inter-pandemic period of
strengthening key infrastructures, and of exercising response plans needs greater emphasis and will be
addressedby the Project.

3. Fiduciary

62.     Financialmanagement. The financial management and procurement functions for the Animal
Health and Public Awareness and Implementation Support components will be handled by the ARSP
Project Implementation Unit (Pnr) inMOA and for the Human Health and Critical Imports components
by the HSMP PIU in MOH. Both PIUs' will be responsible for the flow o f funds, accounting and
reporting in their respective ministries. PIUs will be coordinating their work, and the reports will be
consolidated by the ARSP PIUfor submission to the Bank.

63.     A financialmanagement assessment of both ARSP and HSMP PIUs to be responsible for the
project implementation was undertaken in March 2006 to determine whether the existing financial
management arrangements are acceptable to the Bank This was inaddition to assessment o f the financial
management arrangements o f the ARSP PIU conducted in April 2005 during preparation o f the Rural
Enterprise and Small-scale Commercial Agriculture Development (RESCAD) project, and that of the
HSMPPIUperformed inFebruary2004 duringpreparation of the HSMP. Furthermore, the FMsystems
have also been reviewed periodically as part o f previous projects supervisions for last several years and
have been found satisfactory in both PIUs. The ARSP PIU and HSMF' PIU have established and
maintained good financial management systems for the implementation o f the active RESCAD and
HSMP projectsrespectively.

64.     The financial management systems o f bothPWs are capable o f supporting the implementation of
the proposed project inaccordance with the requirements o f OP 10.02, except for the Compensation Fund
sub-component under ARSP PTU for which internal control and fund flow arrangements have been
prepared (see Annex 4.b) but are yet to be finalized. The flow o f funds under this sub-component will
only begin after appropriate internal control and fund-flow procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, have
been adopted and documented in the Compensation Procedures Manual (as noted above in para. 55
concerning disbursement conditions.) Inaddition, an action plan i s prepared to further strengthen the
financial management arrangements inbothunits and i s presentedinh e x 7 o f the PAD.

65.     Procurementassessments o f the ARSP PIUand the HSMP PIUhave been made inaccordance
with the requirements o f OP 11.OO. The agreementscovering procurement methods and thresholds have
been determined for Armenia according to its capacity and experience with Bank procurement and are
consistent with ERA assistance guidelines.      The procurement agreements have been appraised and


                                                    20

detailed in the procurement plan for the first three years o f the Project (summarized in Annex 7). The
General ProcurementNotice isto be issuedon or about April 7,2006.

66.     Procurement will be accelerated in the first six months o f the Project by allowing Shopping
procedures to be used for a certain number of emergency contracts, whose size would usually be above
the normal ceiling for Shopping. These cover mainly the following: safety gear for veterinary and health
services personnel; equipment and rapid test kits, and other reagents for the VSIreference laboratory and
MOHlaboratories; and, one mobile incinerationplant andrelatedcontainers for culling. Inthe event of a
human AI pandemic, Emergency Recovery Assistance (ERA) procedures could be used for purchase of
human vaccines (and for acceleration o f procurement o f other items as to be agreed with by the Bank in
the case o f a pandemic).

4. Environment and social aspects

67.     Overall, the Project will assist the government to develop a strategy for managing future
emerging and re-emerging zoonotic and infectious disease outbreaks. As a result, the two safeguard
issues which pertain to the Project are those o f environmental assessment for technologies to be deployed
for disposal o f culled poultry and of mitigating the negative impacts of mandated culling o f poultry on
small scale backyardpoultryproducers.

68.     In general, activities under the Project are not expected to generate any adverse environmental
effects as they are focused largely on public sector capacity building and improved readiness for dealing
with outbreaks of avian influenza indomestic poultry. These prevention-focusedactivities are expected
to have a positive environmental impact as the Project's investments infacilities, equipment, and training
for laboratories will improve the effectiveness and safety over existing avian influenza handling and
testing procedures by meeting international standards established by the OLE. This would be reinforced
by the mainstreaming of environmental safeguards into protocols and procedures for the culling and
disposal o f animals duringAI outbreaks.

69.     Whatever medical waste i s generated in health care facilities will be managed using existing
guidelines in Armenia, which have been found satisfactory under previous projects. The Project would
also support updating these guidelines, training health care workers to manage medical waste following
these guidelines, and the possible purchase o f equipment for the proper handling and disposal o f medical
waste inparticipating facilities. These provisionswould be includedinthe Project Operational Manual.

5. Safeguard policies

Environmentalassessment             Environmental Category                      B


69.          Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plan. Since the Project supports
investments in carcass disposal for culled poultry, the Project is assessed as a B-category project. An
Environmental Assessment (EA) and an Environmental Management Plan (Em) for the deployment of
carcass disposal capacity (mainly usingbio-thermal holes, but also potentially using mobile incineration
units) will be necessary. This EMPwill also cover the clean up o f animal wastes o f culledpoultry by the
local public veterinary services supported under the Project. The scope o f this EMP will be specified in
early project implementation, as a waiver for the requirement to complete the EA and EMPduringproject
preparation has been sought and obtained per para. 12 o f OP 4.01. Preparation of the EA and EMP is
expected early inproject implementation, and their adoption by the Government is set as a disbursement
condition for the Animal Health component o f the Project.



                                                      21

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                       Yes                  No
  EnvironmentalAssessment (OPIBPIGP 4.01)
  Natural Habitats(OPIBP 4.04)
  PestManagement (OP 4.09)
  Cultural Property(OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP 4.11)
  InvoluntaryResettlement (OPIBP 4.12)
  IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, beingrevisedas OP 4.10)
  Forests(OPIBP 4.36)
  Safety ofDams (OPIBP 4.37)
  ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OPIBPIGP 7.60)*
  ProjectsonInternationalWaterways (OPIBPIGP 7.50)

6. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

70.     The only policy exceptionrequestedhas beenwithregardto the waiver of the completionofthe
EA andEMPper para. 12of OP 4.01. This waiver has beenapprovedby Banksenior management. The
projectmeets the regionalcriteria for readinessfor implementation.




* By supportingtheproposedproject,theBank does not intend toprejudice thefinal de~erminat~ontheparties' claims on the
                                                                                          of
disputedareas


                                                         22

Annex 1:Ten things you needto know about pandemicinfluenza(WHO 14 October 2005)          -
               ARMENIA: AVIAN INFLUENZA PREPAREDNESS PROJECT



A. Pandemicinfluenza is differentfromavianinfluenza

1.       Avian influenza refers to a large group o f different influenza viruses that primarily affect birds.
On rare occasions, these bird viruses can infect other species, including pigs and humans. The vast
majority of avian influenza viruses do not infect humans. An influenza pandemic happens when a new
subtype emerges that has not previously circulated inhumans,

2.       For this reason, avian H5N1 is a strain with pandemic potential, since it mightultimately adapt
into a strain that is contagious among humans. Once this adaptation occurs, it will no longer be a bird
virus--it will be a human influenza virus. Influenza pandemics are caused by new influenza viruses that
have adapted to humans.

B. Influenzapandemicsare recurringevents

3.       An influenza pandemic i s a rare butrecurrent event. Three pandemics occurred inthe previous
century: "Spanish influenza" in 1918, "Asian influenza" in 1957, and "Hong Konginfluenza" in 1968.
The 1918 pandemic killed an estimated 40-50 million people worldwide, That pandemic, which was
exceptional, i s considered one of the deadliest disease events inhuman history. Subsequent pandemics
were muchmilder, with an estimated 2 million deaths in 1957 and 1million deaths in 1968.

4.       A pandemic occurs when a new influenza virus emerges and starts spreading as easily as
normal influenza - by coughing and sneezing. Because the virus is new, the human immune system
will have no pre-existing immunity.This makes it likely that people who contract pandemic influenza
will experiencemore serious disease than that causedbynormal influenza.

C. Theworldmaybeonthe brinkof another pandemic

5.       Health experts have been monitoringa new and extremely severe influenza virus - the H5N1
strain - for almost eight years. The H5N1 strain first infected humans inHongKong in 1997, causing
18 cases, including six deaths. Since mid-2003, this virus has caused the largest and most severe
outbreaks in poultry on record. In December 2003, infections in people exposed to sick birds were
identified.

6.       Since then, over 100 human cases have been laboratory confirmed in four Asian countries
(Cambodia, Indonesia, Thailand, and Viet Nam), and more than half of these people have died. Most
cases have occurred in previously healthy children and young adults. Fortunately, the virus does not
jump easily from birds to humans nor spread readily and sustainably among humans. Should H5N1
evolve to a form as contagious as normal influenza, a pandemic couldbegin.

D. Allcountrieswillbeaffected

7.       Once a fully contagious virus emerges, its global spread is considered inevitable. Countries
might, through measures such as border closures and travel restrictions, delay arrival of the virus, but
cannot stop it.The pandemics of the previous century encircled the globe in6 to 9 months, even when



                                                      23

most international travel was by ship. Given the speed and volume o f international air travel today, the
virus could spread morerapidly, possiblyreachingall continents inless than3 months.

E. Widespread illnesswill occur

8.      Because most people will have no immunityto the pandemic virus, infection and illness rates
are expected to be higher than during seasonal epidemics o f normal influenza. Current projections for
the next pandemic estimate that a substantial percentage o f the world's population will require some
form of medical care. Few counties have the staff, facilities, equipment, and hospital beds needed to
cope with large numbers o fpeople who suddenly fall ill.

F. Medicalsupplieswillbeinadequate

9.      Supplies of vaccines and antiviral drugs - the two most important medical interventions for
reducing illness and deaths during a pandemic - will be inadequate in all counties at the start of a
pandemic and for many months thereafter. Inadequate supplies o fvaccines are o fparticular concern, as
vaccines are considered the first  line of defense for protecting populations. On present trends, many
developing countries will have no access to vaccines throughout the duration of apandemic.

G. Large numbersof deathswilloccur

10.     Historically, the number of deaths during a pandemic has varied greatly. Death rates are
largely determined by four factors: the number o f people who become infected, the virulence of the
virus, the underlying characteristics and vulnerability o f affected populations, and the effectiveness of
preventive measures. Accurate predictions o f mortality cannot be made before the pandemic virus
emerges and begins to spread. All estimatesof the number o f deaths are purelyspeculative.

11.     WHO has used a relatively conservative estimate - from 2 million to 7.4 million deaths -
becauseitprovides a useful andplausible planning target. This estimate i s basedon the comparatively
mild 1957 pandemic. Estimates based on a more virulent virus, closer to the one seen in 1918, have
beenmade and are muchhigher. However, the 1918pandemic was considered exceptional.

H. Economicandsocialdisruptionwillbegreat

12.     Highrates of illness and worker absenteeismare expected, and these will contribute to social
and economic disruption. Pastpandemics have spread globally intwo and sometimes three waves. Not
all parts o f the world or of a single country are expected to be severely affected at the same time.
Social and economic disruptions could be temporary, but may be amplified in today's closely
interrelated and interdependent systems o f trade and commerce. Social disruption may be greatest
when rates o f absenteeism impair essential services, such as power, transportation,                  and
communications.

I.Everycountrymustbeprepared

 13.     WHO has issued a series o f recommended strategic actions Tpdf 113kbl for respondingto the
influenza pandemic threat. The actions are designed to provide different layers o f defense that reflect
the complexity of the evolving situation. Recommended actions are different for the present phase of
pandemic alert, the emergence of a pandemic virus, and the declaration o f a pandemic and its
subsequentinternationalspread.



                                                    24

J. WHO will alert theworldwhen the pandemicthreat increases

14.     WHO works closely with ministries o f health and various public health organizations to
support countries' surveillance o f circulating influenza strains. A sensitive surveillance system that can
detect emerging influenza strains is essential for the rapiddetection of a pandemic virus.

15.     Six distinct phases have been defined to facilitate pandemic preparednessplanning, with roles
defined for governments, industry, and WHO. The present situation is categorized as phase 3: a virus
new to humansi s causing infections, but doesnot spread easily from one person to another.




                                                      25

              Annex 2a: SummaryandReview of the AvianInfluenzaAction Plan
                                       of the Republicof Armenia
               ARMENIA: AVIAN INFLUENZA PREPAREDNESS PROJECT

1.      To have maximum impact on reducing the spread and cost of a pandemic influenza, it is critical
that Armenia beginimplementing its own country preparednessand responseplans. Achievingthis i s one
of the development objectives o f the proposed project. As a first step, the Avian Influenza Action Plan of
Armenia has beenreviewed and summarized.

PandemicPreparednessAssessmentTool

2.      To evaluate the preparednessstatus and readiness inArmenia, the existing tools prepared by the
European Center for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), in collaboration with WHO and the
EuropeanCommissionhave been used3. Inusingthese tools, the objectives have beento:


    a) To evaluate the status of pandemic influenza preparednessinthe country
    b) To determine a baseline of preparedness, or to determine progress made since an earlier
        assessment.

    c) To identify weaknessesand strengths o fpandemic influenzapreparedness.
    d) To identifystepsfor improvement.


3.      The assessment has focused on the following issues:


I.AvianInfluenzaPreparedness(AnimalComponent)

     0  I s there awareness o f the current situation inthe work regarding avian influenzalconcernabout its
        introduction intothe country? YES

     0  Contingency plan for an outbreak among birds available, including protection o f people living in
        the areaandworkers handling or killingaffectedbirds?DEVELOPED,BUTTO BEREFINED

     0  Collaboration arrangements established with internationalagencies such as FAO?YES

     0  I s there laboratory capacity to test animal specimens for influenza?NOTYET

     0  I s the Ministry o f Agriculture involved inpandemic preparednesslmember o f national pandemic
        committee? YES

     0  Have exercises beenconducted onhow to respond to an outbreak inbirds? NO


II. PublicHealthPreparedness
SeasonalInfluenza:

     0  Seasonalinfluenza surveillance systems inplace and functional? PARTIALLY

     0  Seasonalinfluenza vaccinationprogram for target groups inplace? NOTYET



 ECDCwithWHO andthe EC, 2005, draft Assessment Toolfor National PandemicInfluenza Preparedness.


                                                       26

PandemicInfluenza (national level)
Planning and Coordination

   0   Relevance o f pandemic planning recognized by decision makers and preparedness policies
       developedand adopted? YES

   0   Legal and ethical frameworks established coherent with international legislation (International
       HealthRegulations)? PARTIALLY

   0   National Pandemic PlanningCommittee established?NO

   0   Command and control structure inplace outlining management and decision-making processeso f
       all organizations involvedinresponseto a healthemergency?NO

   0   Country has national influenza pandemic preparedness plan that i s consistent with international
       plans and periodically updated? YES

SituationMonitoringand Assessment

   0   National system available for influenzasurveillance inbothhumans and animals? NO

   0   Access to at least one laboratory able to offer routine influenza diagnosis, typing and sub-typing,
       butnot necessarily strainidentification?YES

   0   Outbreak investigationcapacity available (inventory o fresources available)? LIMITED

   0   Contingency plans developed for ongoing monitoring o f impact and resource needs during the
       pandemic phase. NO

Prevention and Containment

   0   National guidance for public healthresponsedeveloped? LIMITED,NEEDS
       STRENGTHENING

   0   National    guidance     for   civil  emergency      response    developed?   LIMITED, NEEDS
       STRENGTHENING

   0   Anticipated resource implications for implementation addressed?DURINGAIP PREPARATION

   0   Tabletop exercises conductedandresultsusedto improveplanning? NO

   0   Strategy to access antivirals for national use (e.g., stockpiling) developed? YES

   0   Priorities and criteria for deployment and use o f antivirals defined? INPROCESS

   0   Strategy to access pandemic vaccines exploreddeveloped; regulatory issues, liability, intellectual
       propertyrightsaddressed?NOT YET

   0   Priorities and criteria for use of pandemic vaccines defined; preliminary priorities for pandemic
       vaccines use developed, based on expected availability? NO

    0  Logistic andoperationalneeds for implementation o fpandemic vaccines strategy reviewed? NO


Health SystemResponse
       Health services are informed about nationalpandemic influenzapolicies includingpreparedness
       plan? NOTUNIFORMLY THROUGHOUTTHE COUNTRY



                                                    27

    0    Contingency plans developed onhow to maintainessential services?NO

    0    Authorities, responsibilities and pathways identified for command and control o f health systems
         inthe event ofapandemic?NO

    0    Pharmaceutical and other material supply needs estimated; arrangements to secure supply
         commenced? PARTIALLY

    0    Plans for health workers training inpandemic influenzaresponsedeveloped? NO

Communication

    0    National communication strategy for pandemic influenza established?NO

    0    Capacity planned and tested for meeting expected domestic information demands for diverse
         audiences, includingprofessionalitechnical groups, the news media and general public? N O

    0    Networks among key response stakeholders established, including risk communicators, non-
         health government departments, and professionaland technical groups? NO

    0    News media with national plans familiarized, including preparedness activities and decision-
         making relatedto seasonal and pandemic influenza? NO, BUT TRAININGFUNDS SPECIFIED
         FORSUCH


Categorizationof Country Readiness

4.       Onthe basis o fthe results o fthe preparednessassessment, Armenia is assessedas: LOW

5.       Advanced: An eligible country wouldhave a well developed and approved national
preparednessandresponseplan showing understanding o f the issues and goals for addressing them,
actions adapted from international guidelines andbest practices to meet nationalpriorities, evidence o f
strong public support and a well balancedrange o f stakeholders. It would have identifiedinvestment
priorities to support the implementation o fthe plans, have includedfinancing estimates o f the needs;
defined key indicatorsfor monitoring andevaluatingthe implementationo fnationalprograms; andbe
conducting ongoingpublic dialogue andlor involvement.

6.       Moderate: As for "Advanced" butmissingsome key elements inthe plans andwithout reliable
financial estimations.

7.       Low: Manykeyaspectsmissing, especially public dialogue and establishment o f goals, requiring
significant additional identification o f implementableactions and direction.




                                                    28

   Annex 2b: Organizationof the Veterinary Services andtheHealthCare Systeminthe
                                            Republicof Armenia
               ARMENIA: AVIANINFLUENZAPREPAREDNESS PROJECT

A. Veterinary Care

1.       Inthe result of agrarian reforms new businesseswere created and state finances animal health
services ceased to function. The established input and output distribution chains collapsed and a wide
range of alternative processing (often home-based) and marketing systems developed, in most instances
without veterinary oversight.      These changes have brought serious challenges for the staff o f the
Veterinary State Inspection(VSI). Instead o f working only with the veterinary fraternity inthe state and
collective farms, they now have to interact and communicate extensively with numerous individual
livestock producers, private veterinarians, consumers and their organizations.              Moreover, WTO
membershiphas added a commitment to communicate about animal health, trade and food safety issues at
the international level and to develop a domestic food safety assurance system that i s compliant with the
Codex Alimentarius.

2.      Because o f budgetary constraints, the number of diseases for which the SDV intends to have
active control campaign has been reduced from 55 to 7 (brucellosis, tuberculosis, anthrax, pasterellosis,
Foot andMouth disease (FMD),gangrene emphysematous and hog classis cholera). The Government has
stopped the provision o f animal health medicine except for measures defined by state order. The previous
"Zoovetsnab" together withits shops were privatized,

3.       The diagnostic works o f diseases are carried out not on due level, which is conditioned with
laboratory equipment physical wear out and the staff under completeness. None o f the 38 veterinary
laboratories currently meet international standards (IS0 17025).4

VeterinaryServices

4.       The governmental veterinary inspection consists of structural subdivisions and regional entities
(77 employees). At present 750 veterinary specialists are working inthe communities and they are paid
by the village authorities. Gradually the number ofprivate veterinary practitioners service is developing,
andthey are licensedby the Ministry o f Finance andEconomy.

5.       The annual plan developed by the VSI i s the basis for all the activities o f community veterinaries,
and the activity framework o f each community is conditioned by that. The community veterinarians are
accountable to regional inspectors, who in turn are accountable to the Marz State Veterinary Inspector,
The latter regularly presentsreports to YerevanRAAgricultural Veterinary State Inspection.

Laboratories

6. Acting in the whole country, the veterinary laboratory chain is centralized in Yerevan at the
"Republican Veterinary Anti-epidemic and Diagnosis Center" State Non-commercial Organization
(SNCO) as central veterinary laboratory. At present 10 Marz and 27 regional subdivisions o f SNCO are
acting. The Central Veterinary Laboratory is under the responsibility o f VSI. The central lab has the only
ELISASequipment and CPR6test inthe veterinary services, and funds to procure test kits are limited.


     ISOiIEC 17025=International Organization for StandardizatiodInternational Electrotechnical Commission's
     standard for the competence oftesting and calibration laboratories.
     Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay


                                                         29

7. The SNCO Marz branches have bacteriological and serological examination capabilities, and the
regional laboratories have only serological capabilities. The absence of in-service training has the staff
increasingly out of touch with advances intheir field.

8. According to the RA Government corresponding Decree about the "Order o f Implementation o f Meat
and Animal Waste Products Veterinary-Sanitary Examination" inmarkets, shops, public food places the
veterinary-sanitary examination i s implemented by physical and legal entities having license for private
veterinary activity.

ProcurementandDistribution of Vaccines

9. Inthe Republic, for the implementation of animal anti-epidemic preventive measures the procurement
of necessary veterinary vaccines is carried out throughpublic tender.

10. The vaccines are provided to communities' veterinarians free-of-charge. After the procurement of
veterinary vaccines, refrigerated trucks transport the procured veterinary vaccines and diagnosis means
from Yerevan to Marz centers, from where the Marz inspectors distribute them to regions, and the latter
to communities. Marz inspectors have to report to the Veterinary State Service (Inspection) on
vaccination they have performed.

Management of VeterinaryDrugs

 11. The past system of state distribution of veterinary drugs through the "Zoovetsnab" outlets has been
replacedbyprivate operators. Due to the RA Government corresponding decree, a state registrationorder
was set up for biological vaccines, serums and diagnosis means used in the RA veterinary field and it is
authorizedto RAMinistryo f Agriculture. Currently, there is a list with 28 registereddrugs and vaccines,
and a further 2 applications are pendingapproval.

 Veterinarycontrolborder checkpoints

 12. Infact, none of the boundary posts or checkpoints i s equipped according to boundary quarantine post
requirements, and none have any facilities to quarantine animals or keep animal products in safe
seclusion. They are not located inbuildings insteadthey work invans. All lack effective communications
equipment.

Association of Private Veterinarians

 13. The "Pan-Armenian Veterinarian Association" was founded and acts on public bases. Presently, the
National Association has 98 physical members that arenot active.

Animal CarcassDisposalArrangements

 14. There are no rendering plants in the Republic o f Armenia. Disposal of animal carcasses is done
through burial. Animal owners are, by law, required to inform a veterinarian when an animal has died;
the veterinarian inspects the animal and decides if further bacteriological, virological or other tests are
required. Ifnot, the carcassis to be disposed inan official animal burial ground.




     Cyclic Polymerase Reaction


                                                    30

15. In addition, there are roughly 40 bio-thermal holes for the destruction of animal carcasses. Currently
these bio-thermal holes are in various degrees of disrepair relative to their original condition. Ideally,
these bio-thermal are of standardized design, constructedat a dry, high-ground place with a low level of
subsoil water, at least 300 m from the livestock sheds, processingfacilities, rivers, ponds and wells, and
the area i s fenced to a height of not less than 2 m. The hole itself is 10-12m deep, with a diameter o f 2-3
m, The facility is constructedofmoisture- andthermo-resistantmaterial(bricks, ferroconcrete, wood and
clay), with a hermetic cover and a ventilation system (see drawing below). Construction costs are about
2.2 million Armenian dram. Within 20 days after being loaded with animal carcasses, the internal
temperature rises to 65' C. The decaying process is completed within 35-40 days, with the formation of
uniform and odorless compost, suitable for fertilizing. The bio-thermal hole has a significant advantage
over burial grounds in that it causes fairly rapid destruction of many microbes. In the absence o f
rendering facilities, bio-thermal holes provide effective carcass sterilization and, thus, a high sanitary
status at livestock farms.




                                                      31

                                  Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                    ARMENIA: AVIAN INFLUENZAPREPAREDNESS PROJECT
                                                 ResultsFramework

              PI30                                      ProjectOutcomeIndicators                      Use ofProject
                                                                                                  Outcome Information
To minimize the threat in Armenia       Evidence*of improvedeffectiveness ofparticipatinganimal  To determinewhetheror
lased to humansby HPAI             andpublic healthservices inlimiting the spread ofan HPAI      not the projectobjective
nfectionand other zoonoses in      outbreakandconsequentpandemic inArmenia;                      has been achieved.
lomesticpoultry and preparefor          Evidence*of widespread adoptionof recommendedpractices
he control and responseto an       for the preventionandcontrol of HPAIamongpoultry producers,
nfluenzapandemic and other         distributors,andretail vendors;
nfectiousdiseaseemergencies in          Improving trend inpollof experts designedto gauge HPAI
iumans.                            readinessinArmenia.

    IntermediateOutcomes               IntermediateOutcome IndicatorsFor EachComponent             Useof Intermediate
                                                                                                  OutcomeMonitoring
[. Animal Health Component
ZomponentLA: National Policy       ComponentLA:                                                   ComponentLA:
`rameworkand development of a      Evidence*oftimely and satisfactoryprogresstowarddelivery of    To verify satisfactory
zational strategicplan -A          ComponentLA outputs, as comparedto the original plan,          andtimely progressin,
:ountry-specific strategy (and its including specific indicatorsas follows:                       or completionof
:orresponding information system)        Detailedassessmentofthe MOA Veterinary State Inspection; Component LA.
Nas developed, adopted, and             National AI strategicplan developed and adoptedby
lisseminatedto control and         government.
xadicateHPAIinareas at risk.
Component1.B: Strengthening        Component1.B:                                                  Component1.B:
DiseaseSurveillanceand             Evidence* oftimely and satisfactoryprogresstoward delivery of  To verify satisfactory
Diagnostic Capacity-Animal         ComponentLB outputs, as comparedto the original plan,          and timely progressin,
lisease surveillanceanddiagnostic  including specific indicatorsas follows:                       or completionof
capacitiesstrengthenedand                BSL-2+ attainedinone reference laboratory;               ComponentI.B.
trainingofthe veterinary services        Self-assessmentofthe veterinary servicesexecuted;
designed andcompleted.                   100%monitoringofpoultry breedingstock farms.
Component1.C: Outbreak             Component1.C:                                                  Component1.C:
ContainmentPlan    -suppliesand    Evidence* oftimely and satisfactoryprogresstowarddelivery of   To verify satisfactory
incinerationinvestmentsdeployed    Component1.C outputs, as comparedto the original plan,         andtimely progressin,
infield andcertificationof         including specific indicatorsas follows:                       or completionof
readinessfor rapid response              Emergencysupplies procuredandavailableat strategic       ComponentLC.
(necessaryto control anderadicate        locationsinthe field;
an outbreakof HPAI) attained in          Onemobile incinerationunitdeployedand 16 bio-thermal
areas at risk.                           disposalholesconstructed or reconstructed;
                                         Certification of readiness rating obtainedfrom FAOlOIE
                                         (following readinessreview);
                                         Backyardpoultry farming inunconfinedconditionsaddressed
                                         inat least200farms;
                                         CompensationFundestablished with clear operating
                                         modalities.
11. Human Health Component
Component1I.A: Enhancing           Component1I.A:                                                 Component1I.A:
Program Planning and               Evidence* oftimely and satisfactoryprogresstowarddelivery of   To verify satisfactory
Coordination -Improved             Component1I.A outputs, as comparedto the original plan,        andtimely progressin,
commandandcontrol structures       includingspecific indicatorsas follows:                        or completionof
for quarantineanddiseasecontrol          Inter-institutional andmulti-sectoralcoordination        ComponentILA.
inahealthemergencywere             arrangementsinplacebetweenMOHandMOA
developedand implemented.                National strategic plansfor improvementof publichealth
                                   surveillanceand diseasecontrol systemspreparedaccordingto
                                   WHO recommendations, approvedandadequatelyresourcedfor
                                   implementation.




                                                              32

[ntermediateOutcomes                 IntermediateOutcomeIndicatorsForEachComponent                       Useof Intermediate
                                                                                                         OutcomeMonitoring
Component1I.B: Strengthening         Component1I.B:                                                      Component 1I.B:
National Public Health               Evidence*of timely and satisfactoryprogresstowarddelivery of        To verify satisfactory
SurveillanceSystems - Measures       Component1I.B outputs, as comparedto the originalplan,              andtimely progressin,
to improve communicabledisease       including specific indicatorsas follows:                            or completionof
surveillanceand control inhuman           Increasedsurveillanceand outbreak investigationcapacity;       ComponentILB.
populationsat risk were                   Numberofpublic healthlaboratories(at leasttwo) available
developed, testedand                 for routineinfluenzadiagnosis andtyping rehabilitatedand
implemented.                         equipped, andwith appropriatebiomedicalwaste management
                                     systems;
                                     4    Numberofhealthpersonneltrainedininfluenzavirus
                                     surveillanceand control;
                                     4    Numberof sentinel site marzes{at polyclinics) complying
                                     with bi-weekly (winter) andmonthly (summer) reportingon
                                     influenzaoccurrence;
                                           Increasedlaboratorycapacityto collect and analyze
                                     specimens per day for viral typing, sub-typingandisolationin
                                     times of surgingspecimenload;
                                          %ofpositivetests of specimensconfirmedbyreference
                                     laboratory;
Component1I.C. Healthcare            Component1I.C:                                                      Component 1I.C:
SystemResponse Capaciv -             Evidence*of timely and satisfactoryprogresstowarddelivery of        To verify satisfactory
- "Social distancingmeasures"        Component1I.C outputs, as comparedto the original plan,             and timely progressin,
suchas quarantine, banson mass       including specific indicatorsas follows:                            or completionof
gatherings, and travel restrictions,      Strategy for procurementof and access to humaninfluenza        Component1I.C.
were developed andimplemented        vaccineon the basisofwell-defined criteria developed;
backedupby acommunication                 Strategy for accessto and appropriateuse of anti-virals (e.g.,
strategy.
- Critical medicalcare networks      stockpilingand standardtreatmentprotocol) developed;
                                          A contingencyplan for procurementof AI vaccine for
were strengthenedandreadiedto        humans is developedshouldonebecomeavailableandneeded;
copewith increaseddemandfor               Numberofprofessionalsand support personneltrainedfor
services, andto preventthe spread    activesurveillance, case finding, andproperdiagnosis, treatment
of infection amonghigh-risk          andcare to containoutbreaksandreduce occurrenceandcase
populationsandhealthcare             fatality during both pre-epidemic and pan-endemicphases;
workers.                             4    Cumulativeincidencerate(CIR);
                                     4    % changeinthe AI case fatality rate.




                                                               33

        IntermediateOutcomes             IntermediateOutcome IndicatorsFor EachComponent                 Use of Intermediate
__                                                                                                      Outcome Monitoring
 111. PublicAwareness and Implem~     tationSupportComponent
 Component1II.A: Public               Component 1II.A:                                              Component1II.A:
 Awareness -
 -- Coordinatedcommunications         Evidence*of timely andsatisfactory progresstowarddelivery of  To verify satisfactoryand
                                      Component1II.A outputs, as comparedto the original plan,      timely progressin, or
 processinvolving MOA,MOH,            including specific indicatorsas follows:                      completionofComponent
 Ministry ofTerritorial                    Political andcivic leadershiporganizedaroundanational    1I.A.
 Administration addressing            strategic risk communicationplan;
 information/communicationneeds            Research-basedrisk communicationstrategiesand
 ofpriority audiences, duringpre-     products, respondingto the needsofpriority audiences;
 pandemic andpandemicA-I phases;
 -- Informed                               Consistentawareness-raisingandbehaviorchange
              at-risk communities     interventionswith populationat risk usingappropriate
  adoptingsafe healthpractices,       communications channels;
  reporting, andcontributing to            Communications strategiesandproductshighlightingthe
  outbreak control actions;
  -- Educatedcitizenry,               actions andinvestmentsofparticipatingministriesandthe
                        aware of the  mobilization ofgroupresourcesto containthe epidemic,
  impactandsocialcontainment          generating socialtrust andcredibility;
  measuresneededifAI escalates             Evidenceofconsistent communicationandinformation
  across pandemicphases               technologies, to promotereportingof outbreaks, fast response
                                      and an uninterruptedsocialdialogue;
                                           Productionanddisseminationofinformationalproductsthat
                                      educate priority audiencesaboutpossiblescenariosand
                                      mitigation andcontrol actionsto beundertaken.
  Component1II.B: Coordination        ComponentI1I.B:                                               Component1II.B:
  Support-Coordinationand             Evidence* oftimely andsatisfactoryprogresstoward delivery of  To verify satisfactoryand
  managementofproject                 Component 1II.B outputs, as comparedto the original plan,     timely progressin, or
  implementationand M&E activities    including specificindicatorsas follows:                       completionof Component
  carriedout inaprofessionalmanner          Programreports, financialmonitoring, procurement and    1II.B.
                                      disbursementreports, audits, managementandfinancial reports
                                      preparedand submittedperiodically
                                           Methodologydefinedandmonitoring and evaluation
                                      periodically undertaken
  * - viareportsfromtechnicalandSOC    audit teams (as required). The actual compositionofteams TBD at likely would draw
  from internationalagenciesandother experts.




                                                              34

4-
0

     4



I     c
      R   B I B



I




                   S
                   .e
                   0
                   2B-
                   I

                   Q

                  o o s
                 Z U L

              3
              z
              3E    c3E




IJ
t        I
         I




L O
  t-
s o
3 N

 I
  \o
  0
  0
  N




I                   0




 /p
  *
   0
   Q)

a
3
3
N




          00
          m




     m

t

                                  Annex 4a: DetailedProjectDescription
                ARMENIA: AVIAN INFLUENZA PREPAREDNESS PROJECT

1,       The Project will finance activities under four components: (i) health, (ii) health,
                                                                         animal            human
(iii) awarenessandimplementationsupport;and,(iv)criticalimports.Giventheurgencyofthe
    public
situation, following the recent experienceswith HN/AIDS projects inAfrica andthe Caribbean, priority
has been given to detailing the activitiesto be includedinthe first year o f the project with subsequent
activities for later years to be refinedinmore detail as part o f annual project reviews.

I. ANIMALHEALTHCOMPONENT

2.       The Project will support activities proposed by Armenia to cover the needs in the short, long-
term, and ranging from prevention, to control and total eradication o f HPAI. These proposed measures
comprise an integratedpackage maximizing the possibilities o f success based on a detailed assessment of
the particular conditions, constraints and possibilities o f the country (including a rapid assessment of
veterinary services andrecent assessmentso f the poultry sector). Ingeneral, these activities fall into three
major areas:

     0   Improvements to the national policy framework, development o f strategies and increasing
         preparedness.
     0    Strengthening disease surveillance, diagnostic capacity and appliedresearch.
     0   Carrying out outbreak containment plans andrestructuring o fthe poultry sector.

A.       Nationalpolicyframework and development of a nationalstrategicplan

         A1: Policydevelopmentand enablingenvironment

3.       To ensure that diseasecontrol, prevention and eradicationmeasures are implemented ina uniform
and effective way and in accordance with OIE standards and guidelines, improvement in the regulatory
framework and the harmonization and rationalization o f animal health governance and policy issues will
be addressed, These are relatedto bio-security, vaccination, control o f animal movement, border control,
culling and disposal o f carcasses, compensation, restructuring o f poultry industry, compartmentalization
and zoning, and other regulationsrelatedto the poultry sector. Thus, the Project will support definition of
disease control options and reviews and strengthening o f existing regulations and policies, and will fund
related policy studies and dissemination workshops. The main outputs will be a detailed assessment of
the capacity o f its veterinary services and development o f the Action Planon AI and the National Strategy
for AI into a strengthenednational AI strategic plan. (US$ 0.18 million)

         A2: UpdatingEssentialInformationonMigratory Birds

4.       In this area, the Project will support epidemiological studies with a focus on scaling up the
knowledge base o fthe Ministryo fNature Protection on movement o f migratory birdsinthe mainareas of
their known transit. Flight and rest patterns o f certain species o f migratory birds, as they concern the
territory of Armenia, are likely to have changed since the extensive studies carried out inthe 1970s and
 198Os, becauseo f significant development o f irrigation facilities, ponds, etc. The project will finance an
immediate effort to update this critical information, so as to identify "hot spots" and high-risklocations
where migratory fowl may come into contact with domestic poultry. (US$0.07 million)




                                                     40

B:       StrengtheningDiseaseSurveillance andDiagnostic Capacity

         B1: StrengtheningAnimalDiseaseSurveillance andDiagnostic Capacity

5,       Project support in this area will aim at strengthening the capacity of the MOA Veterinary State
Inspection (VSI) and its affiliated reference and regional diagnostic laboratories in detection, reporting
and follow-up o f reportedAI cases. This will cover the formation and equipping o f a Bio-Safety Level 3
(BSL3) laboratory in Yerevan, as well as office equipment and rehabilitation o f marz laboratories and
border posts. Rapid test kits and consumables will be funded for the central laboratory, sprayers and
disinfection means for the border posts, and vehicles for the VSI and marz levels as needed for the
execution o f their relevant roles inthe National Strategy for AI. The costs o f funded activities (US$ 2.61
million) are composed as follows:

                                                                                                Cost inUS$
 Needs ofNationalReference Laboratory (Yerevan)
 Laboratory Equipments                                                                               282,239
 RapidTest Kits and Consumables                                                                        31,885
 LaboratoryRehabilitation                                                                            360,000
 Needs of the border-post and RegionalLaboratories (Syuniq-Vayots Dzor, Ararat-
 Arrnavir, Kotayk-Gegharquniq, Aragatsotn-Shirak, Lori-Tavush)
 Laboratory and border postrehabilitation                                                             600,000
 Other veterinary services needs                                                                      965,833
 Border post equipments and chemicals                                                                 187,364
 Technical Assistance for DiseaseSurveillance                                                         178,500
 Total                                                                                              2,605,822

         B2: Veterinary ServicesTraining andAI Surveillance

6.       Training will target the personnel o f the MOA VSI, including those o f the marz level and border
posts. The focus o f the training will be on disease surveillance (screening, sampling, and testing),
outbreak management procedures (including simulation exercises, culling and disposal), and laboratory
diagnosis (including analysis o f epidemiological data and performance o f risk assessments). Increased
risk-based AI surveillance activities will also be supported at the marz level, coordinatedthroughthe VSI.
(US$0.16 million)

C.       Outbreak Containment Plan

7.       The sub-component will provide support to activities related to the implementation o f the
National Strategy for Avian Influenza, which details the containmentplan for AI outbreaks. The National
Strategy for Avian Influenza details the roles o f the National Center (NC) o f the MOA, the Local Disease
Crisis Centers (LDCCs) set up on the basis o f Local Veterinary Inspection and Marz Agricultural
Departments, and National and Local Expert groups. The sub-component will include the following
activities:

         Cl: Targetingvirus eradicationat the source

 8.      Armenia's HPAI control programs include the principle o f targeting the disease at the source o f
infection, This refers predominantly to the backyard poultry sector. Wild birds are also implicated as
reservoirs o f disease, but the Project does not address the eradication of avian influenza viruses in avian


                                                     41

wildlife. Policies associated with this sub-component that the Government o f Armenia has already
introduced and would trigger in outbreak areas include: enhanced bio-security at poultry farms and
associated premises, through bio-containment and bio-exclusion, and control o f movement o f birds and
products that may be infected, including controls at the interface o f infectednon-infected areas andborder
controls.

9.       Inorder to target the eradication ofthe disease at the source ofinfection, the Projectwill target
the following activities (totaling US$ 1.68 million):

         (a)     culling of infected and at-risk poultry and compensation to farmers and producing
         companies (at areasonable market price); and,

         (b)     disposal of carcasses and potentially infective materials in a bio-secure and
         environmentally acceptable manner (using a mobile incineration plant and a rehabilitated and
         expanded network o f bio-thermal holes).

10.      Assuming producer prices of roughly 1200 dramikg, live weights of 1.5 kgper animal, and a 75
percent compensation rate, the initial US$ 0.75 millionreserve fundwould be able to cover the culling of
over 250,000 birds (about 4 percent o f average poultry stocks). However, the role o f the reserve is to
assure the public (both producers and consumers) that a formal compensation policy has been devised,
with operational procedures well defined andpublicized, and ready to be used. Over time onceproducers
are assured that the reserve fund is well organized, administered in a timely manner, and effective in
attracting backyard producers to bring forth potentially infected poultry animals, the Government of
Armenia may work out a mechanism whereby commercial poultry producers pay into the reserve fund,
basically as a form o f "insurance premia". Given the highpotential losses from even a small, localized
outbreak, commercial poultry producers would likely be willing to pay a small insurance premia of this
type ifthe overall National Strategy for AI were being well implemented.

11.      The incineration plants to be deployed for disposal o f infected and suspect poultry inan outbreak
situation would be owned and managedby the MOAVSI. The costs o f runningthese incinerators would
be sharedby the national budget andprovincial budgets (witha relevant policy on this cost sharing to be
worked out). Intimes of outbreak, disposal o f infectedand suspect animals would be done without costs
to poultry producers.

12.      Establishmentof a NationalCompensationPolicy and Fund. Earlydetectionandreporting as
well as rapid response depend critically on the incentives for poultry owners to report very quickly any
sick and dead poultry to their veterinarians.     Without adequate compensation arrangements in place,
poultry owners have no incentive to do so, but must fear that their animals will be destroyed andthey lose
this valuable capital. The Veterinary Law o f November 19, 2005 established the state's right to cull
infected and suspected infected livestock in the case o f outbreak o f epizootic diseases. Inaddition, the
Government's National Strategy for AI makes reference to the righto f legal entities, private entrepreneurs
and individuals to receive compensation for damages suffered as a result of mandatory culling, but no
steps have been taken as yet to develop the required implementation arrangements - including financing,
institutional arrangements, legal authority over the fund, fiduciary aspects, eligbility criteria, payment
arrangements, flow o f funds, etc. The project will provide technical support to do so.                       \


13.      Compensation payments could, depending on the scope of disease outbreaks, pose a significant
fiscal burden on the state, and the project will provide financial resources to establish the foundation of a
compensation facility. The Government will establish a Compensation Fundfrom which the owners of
animals culled will be compensated, and the Project will provide (in its first stage) US$0.75 million to
finance this Fund (which could be increased by a further US0.75 million in the second phase).


                                                     42

US$100,000 will be disbursedinto a specially established account so as to provide sufficient resources for
immediate needs; it will be a condition of disbursement for this subcomponent that the modalities for
operating the fund have been established and have been approved by IDA. The remaining US$0.65
million will be disbursed only inthe event o f actual need.

14.     The legal, institutional and operational details will be developed and agreed upon duringthe first
months o fproject implementation. Keyparameters guidingthis effort includethe following:

     e  Compensation payment to livestock owners will be through bank transfer. There will be no
        vouchers or animal replacements, Payment will be made within four weeks from the date o f
        culling.
     e  For smallholders (owning up to 200 birds), payment per birdwill be at 75% o f the market price of
        layinghens inthe respective marz as reportedbythe Armenian National Statistical Service (NSS)
        for the third monthprecedingthe month inwhich culling took place. Payments will be posted at
        the village level, inpublic, and under the supervision o f the committee members from the village
        who attended the culling and signed the culling records.
     e  For commercial poultry producers (with the exclusion o f the 6 largest commercial poultry
        enterprises), compensation will be provided at a reasonable replacement cost - i.e., for birds less
        than 3 months old at the cost o f one-day chicks, and for birdsolder than 3 months at the cost o f 3-
        months-old birds, as reported by the NSS during the third month preceding the month in which
        culling took place.
     e  Flow-of-funds arrangements for making compensation payments will minimize the number o f
         stages through which h d s will need to pass before reaching the intended beneficiaries, while
         ensuringmaximumtransparency

         C2: Veterinary personnel safety

 15,     Due to the highly pathogenic nature o f the HPAI virus to humans, particularly the currently
circulating H5N1 strain, this activity o f the project would provide bio-safety hoods and other appropriate
personal protective clothing support to veterinary personnel to be involvedinthe disease surveillance and
 culling and disposal procedures, as well as to laboratory workers involved in virus isolation and
 diagnosis, (US$0.20 million).

                                                                   Cost inUS$
  Gear for 120 staff (40 teams)                                           139,894
  Disinfections for the Teams                                              55,221
  Total                                                                  195,115

         C3: Restructuring the PoultrySector

 16.     Restructuringthe poultry sector i s an important strategy to guard against the damaging effects o f
 HPAI, but also one of the most complicated interventions to be undertaken since it requires taking into
 account the structure of backyard versus commercial poultry production, marketing characteristics, and
 potential socioeconomic impact.      Although backyard poultry accounts for are about 30 percent o f
 production in Armenia, the ban on marketing o f live backyard poultry has necessitated a ban on the
 marketing o f live poultry layers (which are mainly in the commercial sector) in order to ensure
 compliance by backyard poultry producers. Thus, restructuring policy needs to carefully consider this
 linkage. In any case, restructuring should be a gradual process, coordinated with an overall disease
 control strategy that includes bio-security, zoning andlor compartmentalization, andpossibly vaccination,
 andbe basedonthe following factors andprinciples:


                                                      43

0 Well-defined    socio-economic impact analysis, taking into account the interests of all stakeholders,
  particularly smallholder poultry farmers;
0 Public awareness to gain full support from these stakeholders (producers, consumers, government
  agencies, private sector institutions);
0 Market forces should drive the restructuring strategy taking into account commercial and smallholder
  poultryproducers.
e Public andprivate sectors shouldcollaborate andbe transparent inimplementingrestructuringstrategies.

  17.      Inthis context, restructuring the poultry sector inArmenia will focus on improvingbio-security
  o f backyard poultry raising and promoting manure management o f backyard poultry in conformity with
  existing environmental regulations. Improvingbio-security of backyard poultry farming could take the
  form o f investments in improving penning o f animals and closing up o f barns, integration o f backyard
  poultry activities o f families into small village-level enterprises practicing confined poultry raising, and
  possibly ofbanningunconfined backyardpoultry raising inprotection bands around known areas o f high
  prevalence of migratory birdsfarms. This last mode would involve offering support for diversification of
  family enterprise away from poultry raising into other activities. Since it would be extremely costly for
  the state to fund widespread programs for poultry sector restructuring, the introduction o f restructuring
  modalities will be piloted under the Project with matching grants to be provided under a competitive
  proposal submission and award process (with at least 25% co-financing by private beneficiaries). (US$
  0.67 million)

  11.      HUMANaEALTH COMPONENT

  18.      Inthe publichealthfield, short-and long-termactions needto betakenandanappropriate balance
  struck between the two. While immediate steps canbe taken to address the crisis, there i s also a longer-
  term agenda given systemic shortcomings with respect to core public health functions. Work on both the
  short- and long-term fronts, therefore, needs to proceed in parallel, and efforts should be made to ensure
  that short-term responses are consistent with and contribute to proposed longer-term interventions.
  Setting priorities inbothcases i s essential.

  19.      Buildingan effective national public health response will require an enabling environment and
  the necessary resources to bringproven interventions quickly up to nationwide scale. Thus, the Project
  will help to operationalize some elements that are contemplated as part of the global strategic plan,
  expanding and intensifying the responses rapidly. As it i s unlikely that the global spread o f a pandemic
  influenza virus could be prevented once it emerges, the emphasis i s on reducing its impact. Several tools
  will help achieve this aim: (i)   year-round surveillance; (ii) effective and accurate methods of diagnosis;
  (iii) distanceinterventions;(iv)vaccines(oncetheybecomeavailable); (v)anti-viraldrugs;and(vi)
       social
  strengthened medical services. The interventions supportedunder the Project will bebased on Armenia's
  epidemiological andprogrammatic needs, and well-assessed options for meetingthem. The interventions
  will be grouped in three sub-components, totaling US$ 2.75 million. These activities comprise a
  comprehensive mix o f goods, technical assistanceand training activities.


               0   EnhancingPublic HealthProgramPlanning and Coordination
               0   StrengtheningofNational Public HealthSurveillance Systems
               0   Strengthening Health System Response Capacity

  A.       EnhancingPublicHealthProgramPlanningand Coordination

  20.      The human health sections o f the National Strategy for AI developed by the MOH are quite



                                                        44

comprehensive in scope in covering the activities that need to be undertaken during the inter-pandemic,
pre-pandemic and pandemic alert phases, clearly identifying the responsible agency for each measure at
different stages o f an eventual pandemic. However, the agencies in charge o f implementation do not
currently have the organizational and logistical means to implement the plan (i.e., trained personnel,
protective gear, transport, and information and communications equipment).      Thus, this component will
finance protective gear and clothing, information and communications equipment, rapid test kits, and
other activities to protect healthcare workers and other personnel and to ensure that they can and are
willing to continue to do theirjob inthe case o f a pandemic. Fundswould also be made available for the
procurement o f vehicles for the regional branches o f the San-Epid network to facilitate coordination,
supervision and outreach activities. In addition, it is not clear if the current legislative and regulatory
framework allows for drastic measures such as social distancing and deployment of the health workforce
under emergency conditions. These will be supported under the project through medium-term technical
assistance, which will also target MOH to build its institutional capacity to participate in the Inter-
Ministerial Committee for AI and to coordinate the implementation o f the National Strategy for AI with
the MOA and other sector representatives. (US$ 1.05 million)

B.       Strengtheningof NationalPublic Health Surveillance Systems

21.      This component intends to improve the current public health surveillance system to achieve
standardization and better reactivity in order to ensure the early identification and early reporting o f
possible avian influenza cases for the early implementation of control measures. The main activities
supported under this component would include:            (1) improvement o f laboratory networks; (ii)
improvement o f health information and telecommunication systems; and (iii) o f personnel at
                                                                                   training
MOH and other selected agencies, and development o f standard reporting forms and guidelines. In
addition, the component will support technical assistance and additional investmentsneededto strengthen
the areas o f surveillance, communications, and information technology at the different levels o f the health
care system to support the country's preparedness and capacity to respond to avian influenza and other
infectious disease outbreaks andto fast-track available treatments for the disease. (US$0.61 million)

31.Improvement ofLaboratoryNetworks

22.      Under this activity, Armenia's weak laboratory capacity will be strengthened and its supplyneeds
will be met for specimen collection, transportation and laboratory investigations by upgrading the
network o f regional andnational public health laboratories to cope withthe increased demand incase o f a
pandemic. Laboratories o f remote regions would be strengthened, as well as the connection between
public health laboratories and epidemiologists and animal health laboratories and veterinary departments,
Inthis area, the Projectwould finance establishment of: (i)reference laboratory for diagnosis ofavian
                                                              a
flu at the San-Epid system; (ii)improvement o fpoor laboratory capacity at the central level and inremote
reglons; (iii)improvement o f laboratory capacity at the RepublicanInfectious Diseases reference hospital;
and, (iv) rehabilitationo flaboratory premises inSyunik marz andat the Infectious Diseaseshospital

B2, ImprovementofHealthInformation andTelecommunicationSystems

23.      Under this activity, the Project will support technical assistance and additional investments
needed to strengthen the areas o f surveillance, communications, and information technology at the
different levels of the health care system needed to support the country's preparedness and capacity to
respondto avian influenza and other infectious diseaseoutbreaks and to fast-track available treatments for
the disease. The Project would finance: (i) computer sets for 56 central and regional offices (as well as
for the border-post offices) o f the San-Epid surveillance system and health care facilities; (ii)
development o f software on data collection and analysis; and (iii) connections for regional offices
                                                                   internet
o f the San-Epid system.


                                                     45

B3. Trainingand Developmentof StandardReportingFormsandGuidelines

24.     Inthis area, the Project will help with: (i)development o f reporting forms, registries, guidelines
and information material for improved effectiveness in surveillance; and (ii)case standardization,
notification and feedback between the center and the marzes. Funds will also be providedto train staff at
different levels o f the health system in clinical management, epidemiology, laboratory reporting,
laboratory bio-safety, molecular techniques appliedto diagnosis andmolecular epidemiology

C.      StrengtheningHealthSystemResponseCapacity

25.     This subcomponent will support activities to help contain and prevent the spread o f AI through
various social distancing, containment and mass prophylactic activities. Under this sub-component, the
project will strengthen health system response capacity with: expandedregular seasonal flu vaccination as
a vital step to prevent an outbreak among humans; anti-virals o f sufficient quantity for prevention of
influenza in those groups at highest risk such as poultry farmers, healthcare workers, children, those in
close contact with confirmed cases, etc.; andwithprophylactic andpreventive equipment and supplies for
patient care in the intensive care unit of the Infectious Disease reference hospital and for active case
detection. This sub-component will also finance procurement o f human influenza vaccines for
administration to high risk populations and o f new vaccines should there be available against avian
influenza inhumans. (US$ 1.09 million)

111.    PUBLICAWARENESS AND ~PLEMENTATIONSUPPORT

26.     This    component will support strategic communication activities for stakeholders and
beneficiaries. Similarly, resources will be allocated for improved coordination between the MOA'S
regulatory framework andthe roles o f other ministries inthe National Strategy for AI.

A.      PublicAwarenessthroughInformationandCommunicationServices

27.      Support under this sub-component will be provided for the research, design, implementation and
evaluation o f an integrated communications strategy, addressing the needs o f priority populations at the
national, provincial and local levels. The strategy will elevate knowledge andpromote behavior-change in
populations at-risk, to control the spread o f the virus, prevent infection, foster timely reporting and
support containment actions. At the same time, the strategy will educate vulnerable groups on
preparedness plans and mitigation measures across pre-pandemic and pandemic phases.                     The
communications strategy will incorporate measures called for in the Environmental Management Plan
(EMF') for safecullinganddisposal ofbackyardpoultry. (US$0.3 1million)

3.       CoordinationSupport

28.      The multi-dimensional problems associated with HPAIinfection necessitate collaboration fiom a
wide range o f stakeholders within each country, which in Armenia include: the Ministry o f Finance and
Economy, the Ministry or Territorial Affairs, the Ministry o f Nature Protection, the MOA, the MOH,
their associated diagnostic laboratories, NGOs and civil society organizations, and private sector
companies and associations (e.g. large poultry production companies, farmers' associations, veterinarians
and farmer involvement at the grass roots level). The sub-component will support activities to improve
the effective coordination and collaboration among these stakeholders and to bolster project
implementation and monitoring capacity at existing project implementation structures in the MOA and
MOH. (US$0.60 million)



                                                     46

        B1.       National Coordination

29.     The Inter-Ministerial Committee for Avian Influenza (which supervises the work o f the Inter-
Ministerial Task Force for Avian Influenza) will establish a Secretariat' to implement the national
awareness activities described above. It will be responsible for reviewing annual work plans and ensure
coordination and linkages acrossrelevant agencies and internationalpartners. InAI outbreak situations, it
will be in charge o f triggering emergency responses by MOA and MOH, monitoring the actions taken,
and coordinating public statements to the media. The Secretariat will be comprised o f a Director, two
Science Officers (spanning animal and human health issues), and a Public Information and
Communications specialist. These staff wouldbe contracted under the project. (US$ 0.10 million)

        B2.       Project Implementation

30.     The Agriculture Reform Support Project Implementation Unit (ARSP PIU) o f the MOA (which
currently implements the Rural Enterprise and Small Scale Commercial Agriculture Development
Project) and the Project Implementation Unit o f the Health Systems Modernization Project (HSMP PTU)
in the MOH will be entrusted with the fiduciary tasks of procurement and financial management. The
relevant structures will be strengthened with additional fiduciary staff in each Unit. Both the MOA and
the MOH will appoint Project Coordinators to liaise with the ARSP PIU and MOH HSMP PIU,
respectively, and to prepare annual work programs and budgets as well as semi-annual interim unaudited
financial reports.     The Project Coordinators will manage the respective component for which their
ministryis responsible and attend the regular meeting of the Secretariat and the periodic meetings o f the
Inter-Ministerial Committee for Avian Influenza. The ARSP PIUwill be responsible for consolidating the
annual work plans, budgets, and financial reports for submission to the Secretariat and the Bank. (US$
0.37 million)

31.     At the local level, implementation would be the direct responsibility o f each Marz Committee.
Under these committees should be established Marz secretariat (Marz Task Force), which should
implement also functions o f LDCC (Local Disease Crisis Center).

        B3: MonitoringandEvaluation (M&E)

32.     Support would be providedto enable projectmonitoring and impact evaluation assessments. Two
types of M&Eare envisaged. First, the ARSP PIU and the MOHHSMP PIU would collect relevant data
from their ministries and other implementation agencies and then compile them into semi-annual progress
reports focusing on output indicators and the status o f physical implementationby component and use o f
project funds. For some output indicators, specific surveys will need to be conducted to obtain data for
this purpose. These would be financed by the Project. As for the financial reports (noted above), the
ARSP PKJwill be responsible for consolidating the ministerial progress reports into an integratedProject
progress report. (US$0.13 million)

33.     Impact evaluation reports. The aim o f evaluation is to find out whether the interventions are
effective or the program is having the desired impact. The evaluation will include both quantitative and
qualitative aspects and be conducted on a yearly basis. The quantitative aspects will rely on new
information systems and surveys implementedas part o f the various components of the project, currently
existingdata sources, andprimaryevaluative data collection efforts. The goal o fthe qualitative aspect o f
the evaluation will be to document perceptions o f program managers, staff, patients, and local and
national leaders. Qualitative information will be collected using site-visit interviews, focus groups, and
respondent surveys.

'The  Secretariat ofthe Task Force will also play the role oftheNDCC -NationalDisease Crisis Center.


                                                         47

IV.     SUPPORT FORCRITICAL IMPORTS

34,     This component would finance, under Emergency Recovery Assistance (ERA) procedures, a
positive list o f critically needed imports identified as necessaryto a responseprogram inthe event an AI
human pandemic were to occur. This list includes protective clothing and gear, pharmaceuticals and
vaccines, and medical and veterinary supplies and equipment. This component may be expanded in
future for other items on the positive list (as to be agreed on by the Bank in the case o f a pandemic).
Under ERA procedures, critical imports would be procured through organized international commodity
markets (in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.68 of the Guidelines) or other channels o f
procurement acceptable to the Bank.




                                                       48

                       Annex 4b: CullingandCompensationProcedures
              ARMENIA: AVIAN INFLUENZA PREPAREDNESS PROJECT

A. CompensationFund

1.      Early detection and reporting as well as rapid response depend critically on the incentives for
poultry owners to report very quickly any sick and dead poultry to their veterinarians. Without adequate
compensation arrangements inplace, poultry owners have no incentive to do so, but must fear that their
animals will be destroyed and they lose this valuable capital. The Veterinary Law o f November 19, 2005
established the state's right to cull infected and suspected infected livestock in the case o f outbreak o f
epizootic diseases. In addition, the Government's National Strategy Plan for Avian Influenza makes
reference to the right o f poultry owners to receive compensation for damages suffered as a result o f
mandatory culling, but no steps have been taken as yet to develop the required implementation
arrangements - including financing, institutional arrangements, legal authority over the compensation
funds' disbursement, fiduciary aspects, eligibility criteria, payment arrangements, flow o f funds, etc. The
project will provide technical support to do so. All the necessary legal, institutional and operational
details will be developed and agreed upon during the first months of project implementation. They will
be includedinthe Compensation Procedures Manual,

2.      The first issue to be addressed is the provision o f the legal basis for establishing responsibilities
for Compensation Fundadministration (for owners o f any animals culled on Government orders), which
should be done through the promulgation o f a corresponding order o f the Ministry o f Agriculture (or
Government Decree). This order should include specific responsibilities for the Fund's operation (by the
MOA'S Livestock Department and the ARSP PIU) as well as the necessary fkamework provisions
concerning its administration and events triggering payment from the Fund, as well as the appropriate
oversight arrangements. The order should identify the proposed means and modalities o f financing the
Fund (e.g., budgetary allocations and farmer and enterprise contributions) and establish the essential
principles governing eligibility for compensation payments from the Fund.

3,      Farmer and enterprise fees are considered the most appropriate means to realize cost sharingfrom
the beneficiaries o f the Compensation Fund. With medium- and large-scale livestock and poultry
producers the ones who face the largest financial risk, strong consideration will be given to establishing
an appropriate mechanism to have them contribute to the financing o f the Compensation Fund. For
poultry owners with more than 200 birds, for instance, it i s strongly recommendedthat they be requiredto
register with the Veterinary State Inspection (VSI) and the MOA Livestock Department, submit a
quarterly report on the number o f birds they have, and pay a small fee per bird into the Compensation
Fund's cofinancing account.       In the event of subsequent mandatory culling, they would then be
compensated for the number o fbirdsthey have reported andpaidfor.

4.      It will take time before adequatedomestic financing, fiom governmental or other sources, canbe
mobilized and will be available insufficient amounts to operate an effective national CompensationFund.
Farmer and enterprise contributions in particular will take considerable time to accumulate in sufficient
quantities to amount to a significant share o f the overall Fund. Inthe immediate short run, therefore, and
consideringthat the need for compensation payments could arise very soon, the main source o f financing
will be contingency funding to be provided by IDA under the Project (see para. 6 below). Government
budget funds would be needed if the needs exceed the resources being made available by IDA. Over
time, the Government will inany case need to set aside additional funds to cover for such a contingency
andto substitute for IDAresources once the Project has closed.




                                                     49

5.      The next step will be to prepare and approve the necessary specific regulations, procedures and
operational guidelines for financing the Compensation Fundand operating the compensation mechanism.
Criticalinthis context will be specific andtransparent rules andregulations on: (i)    the actualmobilization
o f the needed financing, notably as regards cost-sharing by livestock owners, (ii)         the intermediate
dispositiono f such funds untilthey are actually needed, (iii) the procedural steps requiredto trigger actual
compensation payments, and (iv) the administrative and payment arrangements in the event o f an
authorized case o f compensation. Also needed are precise guidelines for: (i)     establishing and verifying
compensation claims, (ii)determining the amount of compensation per animal, (iii)              recording and
reporting culling and compensation claims, (iv) the actual payment to legitimate beneficiaries, and (v)
monitoring payments.

6.      IDA Financial Support. Compensation payments could, depending on the scope of disease
outbreaks, pose a significant fiscal burden on the state, and the project will provide financial resources to
establish the foundation o f a compensation facility.         Once the Government has developed the
Compensation Procedures Manual, the Project will provide (in its first stage) up to US$0.75 million to
finance this facility, exclusively earmarked, however, for outbreaks o f HPAI. It will be a condition of
disbursement for this sub-component that the modalities for operating the compensation mechanismhave
been established and documented in this Manual in a manner satisfactory to IDA. US$lOO,OOO will be
disbursed into a specially established account so as to provide sufficient resources for immediate needs,
The remaining US$0.65 million will be disbursed only inthe event o f actualneed.

B. Culling

7.      In the event of an HPAI outbreak, the overriding objective for the veterinary services is
eradication o f the disease at the source o f infection. Accordingly, the project will provide support for: (i)
culling o f infected and at-risk poultry, (ii)  compensation to farmers and commercial poultry producers,
(iii)disposal of carcasses and potentially infective materials ina bio-secure and environmentally
acceptable manner, and (iv) control o f movement o f birds and products that may be infected, including
controls at the interfaceo f infectednon-infected areas andborder controls.

8.      The project will provide the technical and logistical means to contain an HPAIoutbreak through
location quarantiningand culling o f the affected animals and those inthe surrounding risk area. Culling
and carcass disposal will be done under the supervision o f the VSI or of VSI-contracted private
veterinarians by properly equipped and protected staff (VSI staff, police o f the Ministry o f Internal
Affairs, the national army, andor laborers hired by VSI for the purpose). Appropriate equipment and
materials will be provided for efficient and humane animal culling as well as for the safe disposal of
carcasses and contaminated materials.          Carcass disposal will be case-specific, depending on local
circumstances, but inall cases inan authorizedandbio-environmentally safe manner. Protective clothing
andother gear will be procuredandkept inready supply, to be issuedto all staffand'workers involved in
containing an outbreak. Accurate lists will be kept o f all animals culled, so as to provide the basis for
subsequentcompensation to their owners.

9.      In the event that mandatory culling is ordered for a particular location, the MOA Livestock
Department will provide the applicable list o f compensation values for each type o f poultry (see para, 17)
to the VSI as well as to the marz administration concerned. This information will be then used by the
Community Culling Supervision Committee (see para. 10) to calculate the compensationpayable to each
poultry owner. To minimize the risk o f fraud and misuse, stringent requirements will apply to the
recording, reporting and verification o f poultry cullings, compensation claims and compensation
payments. They place heavy emphasis on transparency, community involvement and multiple ex-ante
and ex-post verifications and reflect experience gained under previous and ongoing operations in the
country. The procedures to satisfy these requirementsinvolve considerable work, but they are considered


                                                       50

essential to ensure adequate fiduciary safeguards in the present Armenian environment.              Practical
experience will be closely monitored. Once it has become evident that the control mechanisms are
effective, some streamlining couldbe considered ifit is deemednot to increase the risk to an unacceptable
level.

10.      Village and Backyard Poultry. For village and backyard poultry operations, the culling will be
done inthe presence and under the technical and social supervision o f a small local ad-hoc committee, the
Community Culling Supervision Committee (CCSC), established for this purpose by order o f the marz
administration. The CCSC comprises one official from the marz administration, the raion-level VSI
veterinarian, and two trusted members o f the village community, o f which at least one must be a woman.
The community representatives may be from locally recognized and trusted community organizations;
they are nominated by majority vote at a general village meeting. The CCSC will verify the number o f
birds culled and their owners, so as to ensure a correct count and full transparency for subsequent
compensation payments.

11.      At the time o f culling, each individual poultry owner will receive a culling certijicate notingthe
date and the type andnumber of hislherbirdsculled (see attached sample Form 1). The blank certificates
will provided to the marz administration by the MOA Livestock Department and are pre-numbered; the
numbers are stored inthe MOA Livestock Department's data base (see para. 16). Eachcertificate will be
signed by all four members o f the CCSC and countersigned by the poultry owner; it is the poultry
owner's record o f the claim to compensation. Since backyard poultry i s predominantly the domain of
women, ownership records on the owner's certificate and on the summary community culling lists will be
required to identify the actual owners (rather than simply the "head o f household"). The certificate will
be completed in four copies: one will be retained by the poultry owner, one will be kept by the marz
administration, and one each will be attached to the community summary culling record compiled by the
CCSC (see para. 12) and sent by the marz administration to the MOA Livestock Department (operating
the Compensation Fund) and to the ARSP PIU, respectively. Certificates not signed by all members of
the CCSC andthe poultry owner will be declared invalid.

 12.     Basedonthe individual poultry owner certificates, the CCSC will then compile a summaryrecord
of the culling in the village (see attached sample Form 2). Blank pre-numbered community summary
poultry culZing records are provided to the marz administration by the MOA Livestock Department; the
numbers are stored in the Compensation Fund's data base (see para. 16). All four CCSC members will
 sign and the poultry owners will countersign this list o f birds culled and their owners. Forms not signed
by all four members of the CCSC will be declared invalid, and all claims included on an invalid
 Community Summary Poultry Culling Record are rendered invalid as well. The community summary
 culling record is the official record that establishes the poultry owners' right to compensation from the
 Compensation Fund. The summaryrecord will be completed ineight identical copies: one will be posted
 inaweather-protected public placeinthe village; one willbe keptbythe raionrepresentative ofthe VSI;
two will be kept in the marz administration office; one will be sent by the CCSC to the ARSP PIU; one
 will be sent by the CCSC to the MOA Livestock Department Fund; one will be sent by the marz
 administration (together with the Marz Summary Report, see para. 13) to the ARSP PIU; and one will be
 sent by the marz administration (together with the Marz Summary Report to the MOA Livestock
 Department), Attached to the copies that are to be sent by the marz administrationto the MOA Livestock
 Department and to the ARSP PIU must be copies o f all individual owners' culling certificates that form
 the basis for the compilation o f the community summary culling list.

 13.     The marz administration will compile a Summary Report on the basis o f all community summary
 poultry cullingrecords, listingall villages and for each village the total number o f different poultry culled
 (see attached sample Form 3). Blank pre-numbered Marz Summary Report forms are provided to the
 marz administration by the MOA Livestock Department; the numbers are stored in the MOA Livestock


                                                      51

Department's data base (see para. 16). The Marz Summary Report will be made out in five copies and
signed by the governor of the marz. Two copies will be kept by the marz administration, one will be
provided to the raion VSI veterinarian, one is to be sent to the ARSP PIU, and one i s to be sent to the
MOA Livestock Department. Attached to the copies sent to the ARSP PIU and to the MOA Livestock
Department are the community summary poultry culling records and copies o f all individual owners'
culling certificates.

14,      Medium- and Large-Scale Poultry Operations. At larger poultry farms and enterprises (with
more than 200 birds),' the culling will be carried out in the presence o f the owner or manager or o f a
person designated by himlher and under the supervision o f the raion VSI and one official o f the marz
administration. All three will sign the list of birds culled (see attached sample Form 4). In addition, an
audit firm acceptable to IDA will be required to monitor the culling and to certify the culling report.
Blank pre-numbered enterprise culling lists will be provided to the marz administration by the MOA
Livestock Department; the numbers will be stored in the MOA Livestock Department's data base (see
para. 16). The culling record (list) will be made with five identical copies: one will be kept in the marz
office; one will be kept by the raion-representative o f the VSI; one will be given to the owner or manager
o f the farm or to the person designated by himher; one will be sent to the ARSP PIlJ by the marz
administration; and one will be sent to the MOA Livestock Department by the marz administration. The
culling list will be the official record that establishes the poultry owners' right to compensation from the
Fund. The copy given to the farm owner or hislher designated representative will be the poultry owner's
record o f the claim to compensation. Actual compensationpayments will be based, however, on the lower
ofi (a) the number of birds reported by the enterprise to theMOA Livestock Department at the end of the
quarter preceding the mandatory culling and for which the required fee has been paid to the
Com~ensationFund cofinancing account (seepara. 3) or (b) the number of birds reported and certijied
on the Enterprise Poultry Culling Record. If all or part of the fee due to the Fundi s overdue by more
than three months, no compensation will be paid.

15.      Forms. All forms will be providedby the MOA Livestock Department. They will be printed in
booklets (of 20 or 25) and will be pre-numbered. The MOA Livestock Department will maintain a data
base containing, inter alia, the numbers o f all forms provided to each marz administration. All unused
forms, as well as any invalid or incorrectly completed forms, must be returned to the MOA Livestock
Departmentwhen the culling records are submitted.

16.      Database. The MOA Livestock Department will establish and maintain a database to facilitate
record keeping, monitoring and auditing. This databasewill include all marz and villageslsettlements. It
will also include all livestock and poultry enterprises registered with the MOA Livestock Department,
with the number o f animals reported and the fees paid to the Compensation Fund's cofinancing account
for these animals. As mandatory culling orders are issued, the affected communities will be tagged
accordingly. Once cullingreports are received from marz administrations, the information from the Marz
Summary Reports and the attached Community Summary Culling Lists will be entered into the database.
The databasewill also contain arecord o f all pre-numbered forms provided to marz administrations, so as
to allow subsequent cross-checking o f forms submitted or returned.

C. CompensationPayments

17.      The key parameters governing the design o f implementation arrangements for the actual
operationo f the compensation mechanism andthe provisiono f compensation payments to poultry owners
will include the following:


     In2005, there were anestimated six industrial enterprises with more than500,000 birdseach, 20poultry farms
     with 2000-5000birds, androughly 20,000 backyard f a r m with more than 100birds.


                                                        52

    a   Compensation payment to poultry owners by banktransfer. There will be no vouchers or animal
        replacements. Payment will be made within four weeks from the date of culling.
    a   For smallholders (owning up to 200 birds), payment per bird will be made by bank transfer at
        75% of the market price o f laying hens inthe respective marz center as reported by the NSS for
        the third monthpreceding the month inwhich culling took place.' Payments will be posted at the
        village level, in public, and under the supervision of the two community representatives on the
        CCSC who attended the culling and signed the culling records. Special care will be taken to
        ensure that payments are made to the women poultry owners o frecord.
    0   For poultry ownerslproducers with more than 200 birds, compensation will be made by bank
        transfer at a reasonable replacement cost - i.e., for birds less than 3 months old at the cost of one-
        day chicks, andfor birds older than 3 months at the cost of 3-months-old birds, as reportedby the
        NSS duringthe thirdmonth preceding the monthinwhich culling took place.

18.     The MOA Livestock Department will establish the amounts o f compensation to be paid, based on
the parameters identified in para. 17. For village and backyard poultry owners, the culling record
prepared and signed at the time of the culling and subsequently submitted by the marz administration to
the MOA Livestock Department and the ARSP PIU (see paras. 9-13) will be the basis for compensation
payments to be made. The culling record received and filed by the MOA Livestock Department will be
used to calculate the amount of payment due to each village (inthe case of smallholders) and to prepare
the payment list - which is a copy o f the Marz Summary Report with the appropriate compensation
amounts added inthe final column      -- but thecopy received by and filed at the ARSP PIU is the binding
one for purposes of verifymg payment claims. No payment will be made unless and untilthe ARSP PIU
has compared its records against the payment list prepared by the MOA Livestock Department.

19.     For medium- and large poultry owners, the MOA Livestock Department will calculate the amount
of payment due based on the reported number of birds and the fees paid (see para. 14) and will prepare
the requisite payment list - which i s based on the database records. However, no payment will be made
unless and until the ARSP PIU has compared its records against the payment list prepared by the MOA
Livestock Department.

20.     Database Cross-Checking. Before finalizing the payment list, the MOA Livestock Department
will check the culling records received for completeness, accuracy and validity (no blank lines, all
signatures provided, all supporting documents attached, no duplicate claims submitted, etc.). It will also
cross-check them against its database records to ensure that the pre-numbered forms matchwith the forms
provided to the respective marz administration and that mandatory culling was in fact ordered for the
village concerned. With respect to payment claims from medium- and large-scale poultry enterprises, the
database check will verify that the enterprise is registered the MOA Livestock Department, has reported
its poultry numbers on a quarterly basis, and has no fees overdue to the Compensation Fundcofinancing
account for more than three months.

21.     FZow of Funds. Flow-of-funds arrangements for making compensation payments are being
designed to minimize the number o f stages through which l n d s will need to pass before reaching the
intended beneficiaries, while ensuring maximum transparency. Once the payment lists are reconciled by
the ARSP PIU, compensation payments will be effected from the Compensation Fundaccounts through
the banking system.




    At the time ofproject appraisal, ownersofpoultry would havebeencompensated at roughly 900 AMD per kg
     (US$2.65 per bird. TheUS$0.75 million fimd would, thus, cover almost 280,000 birds inpoultry systems.


                                                      53

22.     For payments to village and backyard poultry owners, whose poultry was culled under the
supervision o f the CCSC, separate but identical notices will be sent to the marz administration, to the two
community representatives on the CCSC, to the VSI representative inthe corresponding raion, and to the
ARSP PIU that contain information on the total amount being transmitted and on the amount o f
compensation per bird (by type).       The marz administration, in consultation with the village mayor
(gyughapet), will establish a date for the actual transfers to be made and will notify the gyughapet andthe
two community representatives on the CCSC accordingly; the date must be within one week o f the
notices sent to the marz administration and no more than four weeks after the date o f culling in the
village.

23.      Confirmation o f receipt o f payment by the poultry owners will be supervised by officials of the
marz administration and by the two community representatives on the CCSC, based on the village
summary culling list kept by the marz administration and cross-checked against that kept inthe village.
Each poultry owner will sign the list to verify receipt of payment. To receive payment, each poultry
owner will be required to present hislher cullingvoucher receivedat the time o f the culling. The date and
amount o fpayment will berecordedon the voucher and countersignedby the poultry owner.

24.      All individual payments made to poultry owners will be recorded on the two copies of the
community summary poultry culling record kept by the marz administration, and each poultry owner
must sign for the payment received on both lists. These two copies of the community summary poultry
culling record thus become the "community culling-and-payment record". They must be signed by the
marz administration representative and the two community representatives on the CCSC. Once the
payments have been made to the eligible beneficiaries, and based on the completed community culling-
and-payment records from all settlements in the marz, the marz administration completes the Marz
Summary Report by enteringinthe final column for each community the amounts paid, by village andby
type of poultry. The Marz administration will then submit to the MOA Livestock Department one copy
o f the completed Marz Summary Report, with one of the two copies of each community's culling-and-
payment record attached. The cover letter, signed by the governor, confirms that the eligible poultry
owners have beenpaid.

25.      For medium- and large-scale poultry enterprises who have provided the necessary account
details whentheir poultry was culled, the compensation payments will be made bythe ARSP PIUthrough
the bankingsystem. The MOA Livestock Departmentwill transfer the list o fpayments to be made to the
ARSP PIU, which will instruct bank branches inthe appropriate locations to credit the account(s) o f the
eligible recipients. Banking fees associated with this service will be financed by the Project. The ARSP
PIU will inform the MOA Livestock Department of the dates and amounts of payments made, with
appropriate documentary evidence.

D. OperationalControls,ReviewsandAudits

26.      The ARSP PIU will arrange to have carried out, additional checks to ensure that the eliglble
poultry owners, and only they, are paid and are paid infull. This will include, but not be limitedto, (ex-
ante or ex-post) periodic operational reviews, under terms of reference (TORS)acceptable to IDA, to
confirm the validity and legitimacy of the compensation payments made. The reviewers will be required
to verify compensation claims and payments made inrandomly selected samples o f villages and marzes;
this verification will include: checking against the database maintained by the MOA Livestock
Department, collecting and verifylng information available and obtained at the village level, checking
with individual poultry owners, checking forms and reports, etc. Any significant weaknesses identified
will bepromptlyrectifiedinclose consultationwithIDA.




                                                      54

27.    In addition, the external independent auditors will be asked to provide an opinion on the
reasonableness o f the accounting, reporting and internal controls in respect o f the operations of the
Compensation Fund, andthe audit TORS(acceptable to IDA) will include these specific requirements.

28.    All ineligibleclaims will berefundedto IDA.


Attachments: DraftFormsfor Cullingand Compensation

Form 1: Poultry CullingRecord-Owner's Certificate
       (record o fbirdsculled for individual poultry owner)
Form2: Community SummaryPoultry CullingRecord
       (record o fpoultry owners and birds culled by village, usedto record cullings and subsequent
       compensationpayments)
Form 3: MarzPoultry Culling Summary Record
       (summary record ofbirdsculled inall villages inthe marz)
Form4: EnterprisePoultry CullingRecord
       (record of birds culled for individual larger poultry operations, usedto recordcullings and
       subsequent compensation payments)




                                                     55

                                                        Form1: PoultryCullingRecord Owner's Certificate                                        -




Community                                              - - -
                                                       Raion                                                                 Marz                                     Date

     .I! Address:
         Nameof PoultryOwner:
                        " .....    "" ""
                                    .....                "...".."......"-...~..~.iI.__._.__..__I                                    """
                                                                                                                                      ....l"..l .....         "".l.."        "   ................................  .......




 7 1 3    ............._,,,-    ... .-.............. .... .................................j     ...l..-....~.lll....ll.l           . . +".......... i  "".ll          11j             ........                    ......
                                                                                                                                                                        i




CullingVerifiedbythe CommunityCullingSupervisionCommittee:

Marz representative
(Name)                                                                                                                       Signature

VSIrepresentative
(Name)                                                                                                                       Signature

Community Representative
(Name)                                                                                                                       Signature

Community Representative
(Name)                                                                                                                       Signature

PoultryOwner
(Name)                                                                                                                       Signature




                                                                                                                             56

Instructions:

   (a) Enter new line for eachdifferenttype o fpoultry.
   (b) Runningnumbers mustbe includedinfirst column, continuingoneachadditional sheet.
   (c) Lines not usedmustbe crossedout across the entire sheet.
   (d) Voucher mustbe signed byall four members o fthe Community CullingSupervision Committee
        and by the poultry owner.




                                                 57

                        ..... ...... ......




U    -        _.        =            -




       .....




       .....



               "..".                 ......




       ..-     ""...    .-    _.



       .".I             .... ."...




 EUJ



 a
 P
 4




                        ......




                ....           ...... ".".
       -
       c       -
               d

9)

G
E

                  Form3: Marz Poultry CullingSummary Report
                MARZ POULTRYCULLING SUMMARY RIEPORT
 SheetNo.                  COPYNo.:
IRaion:                             I Marz:                                                                      I
 DateofCulling:            Dateof CompensationPayment:




                                                                    -l-l." ......"...................".I




                                                                    ............."..".....I              """,,,,,1




                         CullingVerified:             PaymentVerified:
 (Name)                  (Signature)                  (Signature)
 Governor, Marz




                                     60

Instructions:

A. At the Timeof Culling

(a) Complete for each villagelsettlement a new line for each differenttype o fpoultry. Only the last
    column must remain empty.
(b) Runningnumbers mustbeincludedinfirst column, continuingoneachadditional sheet. Sheetsmust
    be numbered consecutively.
(c) Lines not usedmust be crossedout across the entire sheet.
(d) Eachsheetmustcontaininthe last line the sheet totals for the number ofbirdsculled andfor the total
    compensationvalue.
(e) Each sheet (and copy thereof) mustbe signed by the governor of the marz.
(f) Each sheet mustbe completed with at least five copies for the following distribution:
       (i)CopiesNo.1andNo.2tobekeptinthemarzadministration;
       (ii)CopyNo.3tobekeptbytheraion-representativeoftheVSI;
       (iii)CopyNo.4tobesentbythemarzadministrationtotheARSPPIU;
       (iv) CopyNo. 5 to be sent bythe marz administrationto the MOALivestockDepartment,

B. At the Timeof CompensationPayment

(g) Bothcopies o fthe sheet keptat the marz administrationmustbe completed.
(h) Enterthe authorized compensationpaymentineachline, basedonthe valuation formula providedby
    the MOA Livestock Department.
(i)Eachsheet(andcopythereof)mustbesignedbythegovernorofthemarz.
(j) One completedcopy o f each sheet i s kept inthe marz administration.
(k) The other copy of the sheetis sentbythe marzadministrationto the MOALivestockDepartment.




                                                  61

   Community:                                                                                                                                         Raion:                                                                                                                                                     Marz:




     NameofEnterpriseor PoultryOwner:........                                                                                                                                                             ...... ............ .....................................          .........
                                                                                                                                                                                            I      "                                                                                                            "  .....             .......                                     .................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "                     " "                                     "         "  ,l_.___,____,._l,,.-~"                                                  ....
.............   ,I,,,t_,,, _"     ____                 ...............................
                                                                                   Passportor....IDNumber:
                                                                                                    -                                                                                                                                           ...........                                                                                                                                 ."      ...............................       ...........            "...l"l_"
                                                                                                                                                                                                 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .
                                                                                                                     _I        1""-                                                                                                                  "                                                                               ""                                        "                                                         "                 "
                                                                                                                                                 Address:


                          :                 Type of poultry(chickens, ducks,                                                                                                                              Number of                                                1                                                                                                                                           ]                   CullingCompleted:
       No.                I              geese, etc. -under 3 monthslover 3 I                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                            months)                                                                                                                  poultry                                                                                 Remarks                                                                                           I Signature of Owner or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                          i                                                                                                                                                                      i                                                                 I                                                                                                                                           I                            Representative
."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.I.---.-                                                                                                                                    ........".........."" ......... ...."".l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~                                                           .-!                              I                      " "


       "" ......
            21",'".""'?"
                  .......14                                                                         "" .... ..............      "
                        1                                ...............................   ....                                                                                             .-1..                                                     ""_ "-4


                                                                                                                                                                                              "_j_                     ""     ll--.-lll"                                                                                .- -  "                                       "                              "  ......j                                                  .......................................
-.........I3.......................................
                         1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                          I                             "                                 " "
                                                                                          ......                 ""                          .-......................                            j
                                                                                                                                                                      ".....................   i                     " "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ...........                            ."A   i.-                                                                 ...........................................       ""                   1                                                                                  .......................   " ................ "...
    ....-.-....--..I
            4 1                                                                                                                                                                                  j                                                                                                                                                                                                             !
                                               "                                   "       ............................."lll,"...-...."...............I....."...."I
                                                                                                    "                                                                              ......              .........l...l-._lll.l._."                                         ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             "           ..l"..."                        l"..l                                                         l._._,___l____.._                                                                            ........................................... ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I"




                                                        ...,ltl.~,,,
                                                          "                        ""                          ...................................         ....                                  .~                                                              .~-" .-__.___I"                   ll...l                                                                                                                          ".,.-._I-"                    ......................               ......                        ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I" I"         ""
            6 1                                                                       "                                                                               -                          i                                                     "                                                                                                                                          ".
            7 1                                                                        ..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     v-"."
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              y""
                                                                                              " .....
                                                                                                    1."         1-  ...................
                                                                                                                             " "                                                                                                                                   i                                                                                                                                                           .........ll"."."                        "   ......... " "                                          ~                    .


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   r-"
                        A,..-.__                                                                 ....               ........                                                                      I--..---.-tlll-lt--                                              A".  --                                                                                                                                                                                             ". ..-.._.____,_.__,____C__._

."........"......I
            8 1                                                                                                               1.11.1


                   ...."..*,,l,_l_..._ ....................... ...........                                                                                                                  ......--...--I"
            9 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..... ..".                                                                                                                  ....................                                   .....................
                                                       ~                              "   "                                                                                                     f                                             "__
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l.l.l"                                                                                                                  "                                        i                                                "I




.I" ...... .................................
          10 1                                                                                                                                                                                   I                                                                    _.......I
                                                   " ..                                   "
                                                                                          ..........                              ".".l."." ......"........................... ...................................... ....".""l"
                                                                                                                                                                     "                                                                        "                 "4.."................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "                                            ".l" ........................            " "                                                                                                         ..................................             ................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I"                                                                                      " "                                           "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   j                                                                                                             ........... .....:j
          11 I                                .................................................               " ...                  "                                                                                        ...ll.ll.l,l__                       i "                                                                                                                                                                                                   ........................... "".".l.l                                ". ...
                                         "l"""." ..""..".l"""_"-.                                                            I...." ........                                                    4I.......I ...._l-...l-..--__._                                                              ".l ........l"..l                                                           "..l"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   !                                                                                                                                      i                                                           "

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ..                                                                          ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I                                             ~                   ""                                                      -3                                                                                     "."l"                                 "


__,____._.._.__.I"
          12 I         ~




                                                        .........................." _.                                                                                                           j                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l".."
          13
          14        __                                                  "                              " ..                 "...... ....                              -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ....                                    ..... ............
                                                                                                                                  I."        lil-               I                               4                                                               "..j                                                                                                                                           2                            ""             I"             "

                          I                                                                                                                                           __
                                                                                         "                                                                                                      "-.""
                                                                                                                                                                                                 !                                                              "L                                                                                                                                                                                                               -_._._.__._._______^,,,"
                                                                                                                      ""1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ...........1.............."...I. ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "           "                " "-       1"




.I...."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            {
          I,,,._t-
           15             4,______.
                                                          ............................................                                                                                      ......j_-..--l___..-.._l_-l..I                                    ..".I""   ---l-_.--_ll..l_-_---(l_ltl                                                                                          ..............1.....                      ............ .ll____...__,,__ll__--,-



      CullingVerified:

     marz representative
      (name)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Signature

      VSIrepresentative
      (name)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Signature

      Enterprise Representative
      (name)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Signature

      Auditor's Certification:
      (name)
      (date)
      (stamp)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                62

Instructions:

At the Timeof Culling

(a) Enter a complete new line for each differenttype o fpoultry. Only the last two columns must remain
     empty*
(b) Runningnumbers mustbe includedinfirst column, continuing oneachadditionalsheet. Sheets must
     be numbered consecutively.
(c) Linesnot usedmustbe crossedout across the entire sheet.
(d) Eachline must be signedbythe owner or representative ofthe enterprise.
(e) Each sheet (and copy thereof) must be signed at the bottomby the marz representative, the VSI
     representative and the poultry owner or hidher representative.
( f ) Eachsheet must be completedwith at least six copies for the following distribution:
        (i)   CopiesNo. 1andNo. 2 to be kept inthe marz administration;
        (ii)  Copy No. 3 to be kept bythe raion-representative o fthe VSI;
        (iii)Copy   No. 4 to be kept by the poultry enterprise;
        (iv)  Copy No. 5 to be sent bythe marz administration to the ARSP PIU;
        (v)   Copy No. 6 to be sent by the marz administration to the MOA Livestock Department.




                                                    63

                                Annex 5: ProjectCosts
             ARMENIA: AVIAN INFLUENZA PREPAREDNESSPROJECT



Project Cost ByComponent andor Activity           Local        Foreign       Total
                                                U S $million U S $million U S $million
1.Animal HealthComponent                            3.663        1.889         5.552
2. HumanHealth Component                            0.335        2.410         2.745
3. Public Awareness and Communication Support       0.622        0.310         0.932

Total Baseline Cost                                 4.620        4.609         9.229
 Contingencies                                      0.120        0.121         0.240
                            TotalProjectCosts       4.740        4.730         9.470




                                          64

                               Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                ARMENIA: AVIAN INFLUENZA PREPAREDNESSPROJECT

1.      The Project will be implemented by existing project implementation structures in the MOA and
the MOH.       However, institutional and implementation arrangements will be coordinated by the
Government o f Armenia, in which a Secretariat o f the existing Inter-Ministerial Committee for Avian
Influenza i s established. This Committee has been established to deal with zoonotic emergencies and will
provide general policies and guidelines for Project implementation.           The Committee comprises
representatives o f the MOA, the RepublicanAgricultural Support Center (MSC), the MOH, the Ministry
of Nature Protection, the Ministry o f Territorial Administration, the National Police, the National
Academy o f Sciences, the Armenian State Agrarian University, and the Union o f Veterinarians (an
NGO). The Committee will be responsible for reviewing annual work plans and the Secretariat will be
responsible for ensuringcoordination andlinkages acrossrelevant agencies and internationalpartners.,

2.       Since the Bank is financing both agricultural sector and health sector projects in Armenia, the
existing project implementation structures within the MOA (the Agriculture Reform Implementation PIU)
and the MOH (the Health Systems Modernization Project Implementation Unit, HSMP PIU) will be
entrusted with fiduciary tasks o f procurement and financial management. (Additional staff will to be
recruited in the ARSP PIU and the MOH HSMP PIU as needed for these fiduciary tasks.) One senior
officer from the MOA and one from the MOH will be designated as Project Coordinators in charge o f
managing implementation of thdr relevant ministries' project activities and liaising with the ARSP PIU
and MOH HSMP PIU, respectively. These Project Coordinators will report to the Secretariat o f the
Committee and be members o f the Committee. The Secretariat will recruit staff responsible for overall
administration, public information, and coordination o f scientific issues related to animal and human
health.

3.       The Project Coordinators will be responsible for the preparation o f annual work programs and
budgets and monitoring project implementation at the central and local levels. The ARSP PIU and the
MOH HSMP will assist the Project Coordinators in preparation o f semi-annual project management
reports for the two ministries. The ARSP PIUwill be responsible for consolidatingthe annual work plans
andbudgets for submission to the Secretariat andthe Bank.

4.       At the local level, implementationwill be the direct responsibility of each marz Secretariat (task
force) and shouldreport to the Deputy Governor o f the marz. The Deputy Governor will be the key marz
official to be in contact with the Inter-Ministerial Committee for AI and its Secretariat in times of AI
outbreak or other emergency situations. The marz level committees will be strengthened to set up marz
level secretariats comprising officials and specialists to work under the supervision and guidance o f the
national Secretariat.

5.       A Project Operational Manual (POM) is being prepared to integrate the relevant aspects of the
MOA and MOHunder the National Strategy for AI that has beenprepared by the MOA and the MOH.
This POM will guide the management and implementation o f the Project and be updated as Armenia's
national AI strategic plan is finalized andupdatedperiodically duringthe course ofthe Project.




                                                    65

      Annex 7: Procurement,FinancialManagement,andDisbursementArrangements
               ARMENIA: AVIAN INFLUENZA PREPAREDNESSPROJECT

A. ProcurementArrangements

1.      As described in OP 8.50 for Emergency Recovery Assistance (ERA), in addition to emergency
assistance, the Bank may support operations for prevention and mitigation in countries prone to specific
types o f emergencies. Such operations could assist in: (a) developing a national strategy, (b) establishing
an adequate institutional and regulatory framework, (c) carrying out studies of vulnerability and risk
assessment, (d) reinforcingvulnerable structures, and (e) acquiringhazard-reduction technology.

2.      Given the threat that HPAImay pose to the economic and social fabric of the country, as well as
to the health o f the population because o f the risk o f an influenza pandemic, the Project will be financed
through a Credit to be approved following ERAprocedures.

3.      Procurement under the Project will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004, and "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and with the provisions
stipulated in the Legal Agreement. Agreements covering procurement methods, thresholds, and other
conditionality will be consistent with ERA assistance guidelines and determined for the Armenia
Republic accordingto its capacity and experience with Bankprocurement.

4.      The activities covered under the Project will be implemented on the basis o f annual work plans to
allow for needed flexibility in adjusting activities to account for in-country experience and the lessons
from implementation by other countries participating in the multi-country GPAI. Accordingly, the
following approach to procurement will be adopted.

5.      Implementjng Agency Assessment. The Bank has carried out a procurement capacity assessment
o f the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the MOH currently implementing the Health Systems
Modernization Project (HSMP), which will be responsible for the implementation o f the Human Health
component of the AIP. The HSMP PIU has procurement specialists in place for the HSMP and these
arrangementswill be reliedupon for the AIP. The PIUinthe MOA (the ARSP PIU) currently responsible
for the implementation o f the Rural Enterprise and Small Scale Commercial Agriculture Development
Project will be responsible for the implementation o f the Animal Health component o f the AIP.
Procurement staff in both PIUs are experienced with procurement following World Bank guidelines,
including with all the procurement methods to be included under the Project. The same qualified staff
will be responsible for procurement under this Project, but both PIUs will recruit an additional
procurement specialist to assist the implementation o f the ATP project However, given the country
conditions, the Project has been classified in category "C", signifying highrisk (A - low, B - medium).
The annual Procurement Plan (PP) will define thresholds for prior review appropriate to the category;
these thresholds willbe determined so as to minimizeprior review as appropriate to the levelo frisk.

6.       Procurement Plan. A Procurement Plan (PP) covering the initial 18 month period o f Project
implementation was prepared at appraisal and agreed at Negotiations.              The updated PP for each
subsequent year will be submitted to the Bank for approval before the end o f the previous year and will
use a pre-defined standard format which will, at a minimum, list: (i) and services to be procured
                                                                          goods
duringthe following calendar year, (ii) estimated value; (iii) method ofprocurement; and (iv) the
                                         the                         the
timetable for carrying out the procurement. When reviewing the annual work program, IDA will require
consistent application of Bank procurement guidelines to the specific procurement lots expected during
the year andtheir procurement methods. Ifneeded, the PP couldberevisedandre-submitted.


                                                      66

7.       Procurement Methods and Thresh~lds. The Financing Agreement defines the appropriate
methods for International Competitive Bidding (ICB), National Competitive Bidding (NCB), Limited
International Bidding (LIB), Shopping, Direct Contracting (including through UN agencies), and
Community Participation Practices.          Thresholds for such procurement methods and prior review
requirements have been initially indicated inthe table below on the basis o f the Bank's assessment o f the
capacity of the PIUs which will be responsible for procurement. Such thresholds may be adjusted in the
Procurement Plan based on the updated estimated risks of comption in the country, and the country's
capacity o f construction and manufacturing industries.




ICB: Goods                  >US$300,000                                                              All
ICB Works                   >us$2,000,000
LIB:Goods                                    For specialized equipment                               All
NCB: Goods                  <US$300,000      Ifgoods available competitively fromwithinthe           First contract
NCB: Works                  <us$2,000,000    country andthe bidding documents shall contain
                                              draft contract and conditions o f contract acceptable
                                              to the Bank. The Bank's sample formmaybe used.
Shopping: Goods and         <us$200,000                                                              None
Works
For emergency               <US$600,000      This "emergency shopping" methodrefers to the use       All contracts
                                              o fshopping for contracts expectedto be above the      above
                                             normal threshold but for goods which are needed on     $300,000
                                              a nrioritv basis inthe first few months o fnroiect
Community Participation                       For goods, works andservices for restructuring o f     None
Practices                                    poultry sector under the sub-projects (maximumo f
                                              $10,000) to be implementedby small farmers and
                                              sub-projects (maximum o f $300,000) to be
                                              implementedby small andmedium sized enterprises
Direct Contracting                            Goods andworks which the Bank agreesmeet the          All
                                              requirements o f the Procurement Guidelines
UNAgencies -Direct                            Forprocurement of drugs, vaccines, specialized test   NA
Contracting with                              equipment and supplies and other materials. This
specialized agencies, e.g.,                   procedure is describedinPara 11.
WHO, FAO, UNICEF
Quality andCost Based       >us$100,000                                                             All
Selection(QCBS) for         (Int'lshortlist)
Consultant Services         <us$100,000
                            (National
                            shortlist)
SelectionBasedon            <us$200,000                                                              >$100,000
Consultants'
Qualifications
Individual Consultants                        Services for assignments that meet the requirements    >$50,000
                                              set forthinthe first sentence o fpara. 5.1 o fthe
                                              Consultant Guidelines.
Single-Source Selection                       Services for tasks incircumstances which meetthe       All
                                             requirements o fpara. 3.10 o f the Consultant
                                              Guidelines, with the Bank's prior agreement.




                                                        67

8.       Prior Review by the Bank. The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be
subject to the Bank's prior review process. All other contract shall be subject to post review.

9.       Advertisement.        A General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be published in the UN
"Development Business" on -line (UNDBonline) and inthe Development Gateway's dgMarket aroundthe
period of Negotiation. For ICB goods and works contracts and large-value consultants contracts (more
than US$200,000), Specific Procurement Notice would be advertised in the Development Business on-
line (UNDBonline) and in the Development Gateway's dgMarket and national press, and in the case o f
NCB, ina major localnewspaper (inthe national language). Information on contract awards for the same
shall be published withintwo weeks o freceiving Bank's no-objections.

10.      The Plus will follow the Bank's anti-comption measures and will not engage services o f firms
and individuals debarred by the Bank. The listing o f debarred firms and individuals is located at:
ht~://~.worldbank.or~h~l/opr/urocure/deba~.h~l

11.       UN Agencies as Procurement Agents. For several years, a number of specialized UN and
bilateral agencies operating inthe Regionhave supported various country agencies inthe procurement of
drugs, vaccines, specialized test equipment and supplies, and other materials.             Using this type of
assistance will be part of the Project's procurement arrangements. In accordance with the Procurement
Guidelines Section 3.9, the Project will include the use of Specialized Agencies of the United Nations
(WHO, FA0 and UNICEF) as suppliers of goods (mainly for drugs and vaccines and some medical
supplies such as reagents), following their ownprocedures o f procurement.

12.      Procurement under Emergency AssistanceProvisions. Following ERA procedures, the Project
i s likely to include financing for items included on a positive list o f imports identified as necessary under
a well-defined preparedness and response program to be prepared as part o f project implementation. In
case of a declared global influenza pandemic, which will trigger disbursement conditions for critical
imports, support will be provided under the Project for the procurement o f a positive list of critical
imports. These may be procured under Modified International Competitive Bidding (MICB), according
to paragraphs 2.66 and 2.67 of the Procurement Guidelines. Also, commonly traded commodities may be
procured through organized international commodity markets or other channels of competitive
procurementacceptable to the Bank, inaccordancewith the provision.

 13.      The positive list of critical inputsto be preparedby the Republic of Armenia or to be purchased
by the Borrower from the private sector, based on historical imports duringnational emergencies, could
include:
          e        Pharmaceuticals and vaccines
          e        Medical andveterinary supplies and equipment
          e        Protectiveclothing and gear

 14.      Disbursements for items procured under emergency assistance provisions can be made for up to
 100percent o f import costs. N o more than 20 percent o f the Credit proceeds may be used for retroactive
 financing o f expenditures, andthe payments musthave beenmade after the appraisal mission.

 B. FinancialManagementandDisbursement

 15.      Country Issues. The draft CFAA report, which is being finalized currently, concluded that the
 overall fiduciary risk" in Armenia i s significant. The key reasons are: (i)      inadequate capacity of core


 lo Riskofillegal, irregular orunjustifiedtransactions notbeingdetected, measured ona fourpoint scale according to
 the CFAA Guidelines (low, moderate, significant or high).


                                                          68

control and supervisory agenciesperforming the audits within the public sector; (ii)   although most o f the
basic laws are in place with respect to various entities' (private sector and public enterprises, including
state non-commercial organizations) financial reporting, but compliance remains a problem and
authorities needto improve the quality o f auditing, monitoring and supervision.

16.     However, the fiduciary risk o f the stand-alone financial management arrangements for Bank-
financed investmentprojects inArmenia i s considered low. The government counterpart fundingremains
a major concern but actions have beentakenby the Government andthe Bankto monitor the status o fthis
problem. Weaknesses inthe banking sector mean that there are inadequate commercial banks to manage
the designated accounts. The project financial staffs are considered adequate. The audit arrangements are
acceptable andno significant issues have been identified.

17.      Strengths and Weaknesses The significant strengths that provide a basis for reliance on the
project financial management system include: (i)     significant experience o f both PIUs management and
FM staff in implementing Bank-financed projects for past several years; and (ii)        adequate accounting
software utilizedbybothPIUS. The significant weaknesseswere not identified at the PIUS.

18,      Internal Controls. The existing FMS staffing in the ARSP and HSMP PIUs are considered
adequate to implement this new project at the initial phase, but additional staff will be needed to
strengthen the existing capacity in both PIUs and particularly in ARSP PIU to allow for regular
reconciliation o f the documents to be received as well as periodic visits to the village level to review the
implementation o f the Compensation Fund. The additional FM staff will report to the PIUs financial
managers and will be responsible for disbursement functions as well as project accounting     -- maintaining
books o f accounts, reporting day-to-day transactions and preparing accounting reports and financial
statements, as well as monitoring financial flows to project beneficiaries. The financial managers o f both
PIUs will have primary responsibility for the quarterly financial reports (FIMRs) and will prepare the
annual financial statements for audit. However, the ARSP PIU's financial manager will be also
responsible for consolidationo f the separate FMRsinto one for regular submission to the Bank.

19,      Accounting. The accounting books and records of the both PIUs will be maintained on an
accrual basis and project financial statements, including quarterly FMRs, are going to be presented in
United States dollars.    The financial management manuals are being updated based on the agreed
organizational structure of the FM team to reflect relevant accounting policies and internal control
procedures.

20.      Internal Audit. Neither internal audit units exists nor are going to be established in the PIUs,
consideringthe small size o fthe entities.

21.      ReportingandMonitoring. For project monitoring purposes, semi-annual financial reports will
be requiredto be prepared by each PIU for the component`s under their management. Both PIUs will be
responsible for designing appropriate financial reports to include: (a) Project Sources and Uses o f Funds,
(b) Uses of Funds by Project Activity, (c) Designated AccountLocal Bank Account Statements, (d)
Physical progress report, and (e) Procurement report. These financial reports will be submitted to IDA
within45 days ofthe end of eachsemester. The first semi-annual financial report will be submitted after
the end of the first full semester following the initial disbursement. Formats o f the annual financial
statements and the financial reports will be incorporated in the financial management section of the
Project Operational Manual. The accounting software currently usedby the ARSP and HSMP PIUs will
need to be upgraded to have the capacity to prepare financial reports incorporating all components, sub-
components and expenditure categories, as maybe appropriate.




                                                     69

22.      InformationSystems. ARSP PIUhasbeenusing 1C accounting softwarewhich is implemented
in a number of PIUs and found to be adequate. The only drawback of the software is that it does not
produce financial reports, and they are currently prepared in Excel, The HSMP PIU also uses 1C
accounting software which has been upgraded in December 2004, incorporating new functionalities
including automatic generation o f financial reports. The software in ARSP PIU needs to be upgraded to
generate financial reports for the project automatically.




Allocation of Credit Proceeds and Financing Percentage
Expenditure Category                           Amount inUS$           FinancingPercentage
(1)Goods, works, consultantservicesand                    2,280,000          74%
trainingunder Part Iofthe Project,
excluding Part 1.3.(a) and 1.3.(d)
(2) Goods, works, consultant servicesand                  1,610,000          74%
trainingunder Part I1ofthe Project
(3) Goods, works, consultant services and                   330,000          74%
trainingunder Part I11ofthe Project
(4) CompensationFundunderPart I. of 3(a)                    720,000          96%
the Project
(5) Poultry Restructuring Sub-projects                      500,000          74%
underPart 1.3 (d) ofthe Project
I
(6) Eligibleimported goods and                              220,000          74%
commodities underPart IVof the Project as
specified inSection1V.C o f Schedule 2 of
the Financing Agreement
(7) Operational Costs                                       360,000          74%
(8) Unallocated                                             230,000
Total Credit                                              6,250,000


24.      Quick Disbursable Funds. In the event of a global influenza pandemic, the Borrower could
obtain quick disbursing funds. These funds would be disbursed against a positive list o f imports,
identified as critical following emergency events. The declaration o f a national emergency will be a
disbursement condition for this element o f the project.        Upon declaration o f an emergency, the
Government will submit to IDA an initialrecovery plan documenting the disaster declaration, the related
budget appropriation and the proposed use o f the funds. The ARSP PIU will keep IDA informed of
updates inthe recoveryplanas the emergency response operations unfold.

25.      C o ~ ~ e n ~ Fund.nThe Compensation mechanism and the internal controls are described in
                           a ~ o
Annex 4.b above.

26.      FinancialAudits. There will be annual audits of the project financial statements prepared for
relevant components by ARSP and HSMP PIUs and consolidated by ARSP PIU, covering all aspects of
the project, including specific requirements for the Compensation Fund. The audits will be performed by



                                                     70

independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and in accordancewith International Standards on Auditing
(ISA), and the Bank's guidelines on auditing as stated inthe guidelines: Annual Financial Reporting and
Auditing for World Bank-~nancedActivities (June 2003). The auditors' TORSwill be prepared by the
ARSP PIU in coordination with HSMP PIU and cleared by the Bank before the engagement of the
auditor. The audit TOR will include boththe audit of financial transactions, an assessmento f the internal
control, funds flow mechanisms at the PIUS,and the reasonableness o f the accounting, reporting and
internal controls inrespect o f the Compensation Fundoperation.

27.        The annual audit reports will consist of a single opinion on the financial statements o f the project,
incorporating the project accounts, including two Designated Accounts Reconciliation, and SOE
Withdrawal Schedules; as well as a Management Letter. The audit reports will be submittedto the Bank
not later than six months after the end o f the fiscal year to which they relate. The cost o f the audits will
be eligible for financing from the Credit. The both PIUs will provide the auditor with full access to
project-related documents and records, including the compensation claims database (in case o f ARSP
PIU), and with the informationrequired for the purpose o f the audit. Sample TORSfor project audit will
be included inthe Financial Manual.

28.         Financial Management Action Plan. Financial management arrangements of the ARSP and
HSMPPIUs are generally adequate, but a number of actions are required to ensure that arrangements are
fully satisfactory for the project, with its specific FMneeds, especially with respect to the Compensation
Fund. The following action plan will be discussed with the Borrower duringNegotiations. Satisfactory
implementation o f the action plan will ensure the establishment o f a financial management system that
fullymeets requirements o fthe Project andofthe Bank.

                      Action                     Responsibility    Due Date                    Remarks
Implementationo f appropriate internal control   ARSP PIU,      Disbursement      The Compensation Fundsub-
procedures and fund flow arrangements for the    MOA            Condition for the component will be disbursed after
 Compensation Fund component acceptable to       Livestock      Compensation      the MOA Livestock Department and
the Bank and documentedinthe relevant            Department     Fundsub-          ARSP PIUhave implementedand
operational manuals.                                            component         documented appropriate internal
                                                                                  control and fund flow procedures.
Staffing of the FM Unit. Recruitmentof           ARSP     and To beready
FinanciallDisbursement Specialist. This is only  HSMP PIUs      before project
an action for capacity buildingandnot aFM                       implementation
 condition.

 FMProceduresManuals. Reviseexisting             ARSP      and  To beready        Manuals already exist and will
 manualsto fully document the proceduresfor      HSMP PIUs      beforeproject     require only minor updates to reflect
 accounting and internalcontrol, including                      implementation    the characteristics o fthe project,
 disbursementand flow offunds (including flow                                     includingflow o f funds and
 chart), financial reporting, includingFMR,                                       accountability for cash grants/
 annualreports and audit. This is only an action                                  compensation fund.
 for capacity buildingandnot a FMcondition.

 29.        Supervision Plaa           During project implementation, the Bank will supervise the project's
 financial management arrangements in two main ways: (i)             review the project's semi-annual financial
 reports and project progress reports as well as the project's annual audited financial statements and
 auditor's management letter; and (ii) the Bank's supervision missions, review the project's
                                                during
 financial management and disbursement arrangements (including a review of a sample o f SOEs and
 movements on the Designated Account) to ensure compliance with the Bank's minimumrequirements. As
 requiredby the Bank andECA guidelines, the Country Financial Management Specialist for Armenia and
 Georgia will carry out regular annual FMsupervisions o f the project.




                                                           71

                                       Annex 8: EconomicAnalysis
                ARMENIA: AVIAN INFLUENZA PFWPAFWDNESSPROJECT


1.      Evidence shows that the H5N1 strain o f Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) i s now
endemic inparts o f SoutheastAsia, where Cambodia, China, Indonesia, Laos, Thailand and Indonesiaare
the worst-affected countries. The continuing outbreaks that began inlate 2003 and early 2004 have been
disastrous for the poultryindustryinthe region, By early-2005, more than 200 million birds had died or
been destroyed and losses to the poultry industryare estimated to be inexcesso f US$lO billion. The costs
were related to the death of poultry from the disease itself, the culling o f poultry to stem its spread, and
the costs to governments o f containing the epidemic in terms o f equipment, materials, transport and
personnel.

2.      InVietnam, one ofthe most seriously affectedcountries, some 44 millionbirdsor 17percent of
the total population of poultry, were culled at an estimated cost of $120 million (0.3 percent o f GDP)".
The costs would have been substantially higher if there had been a serious impact on tourism, where an
estimated 5 percent drop in tourist and business arrivals would reduce GDP by a further 0.4 percent.
(Fortunately, there has been only a small impact on tourism so far; the number o f tourist arrivals in
Vietnam increased by 20.5 percent in 2004 and rose further by 23 percent in the first seven months of
2005.) InIndonesia, an FA0 survey indicates that in the most seriously affected parts o f the country,
more than 20 percent o f permanent industrial and commercial farm workers lost their jobs. So although
the overall macro-economic effects have been relatively small, the impact on the poultry sector and on
associatedinputand distribution channelshasbeen severe.

3.      Although HPAIis mainly an animal healthproblem, more than half o f the over 100 human cases
have been fatal. Moreover, it is widely believed inthe scientific community that a global pandemic of
humaninfluenza is overdue. Such a pandemic would be the result o f the emergence o f a strain o f vims to
which the world's population had little or no immunity. A widespread epidemic needs not be severe or
particularly deadly; the pandemics o f 1957-1958 and 1968-1969 were relatively mild. However, there is
the possibility that the H5N1 strain could, through genetic re-assortment or a more gradual process of
adaptive mutation, become readily transmissible from human-to-human and become the basis o f a global
pandemic comparable to that o f 1918-1919, the "Spanish" influenza, which recent research has shown to
have hadits origin inan avian influenza virus.

4.      Neither the timingnor the severity of the next pandemic can be predicted, butwith the virus now
endemic in bird populations in Asia the risk will not be easily diminished. Moreover, it is clear that
containing and eradicating the virus will be a desirable objective, even if the problem were restricted to
one of animal health inArmenia. Thus, economic analysis o f the Project, takes into account the two main
categories o f economic impacts: (a) the economic consequences and costs associated with public and
private efforts to prevent the emergence or spread o f the disease and to treat its effects; and (b) the
economic consequencesand costs o f sickness or deathresulting from the diseaseoutbreaks.

5.       These two are clearly relatedas a greater effort at preventionandlor treatment for a given severity
o f epidemic would be expected to reduce the spread o f sickness andlor the percentage o f mortality and
thusreduce the economic impactandcosts. There arealso two "levels" o fpotentialeconomic costs. The


 l1
  World Bank. (2004). Avian Influenza Emergency Recovery Project. TechnicalAnnex, Appendix 2. Other earlier
and widely cited estimatesby Oxford Economic Forecastinghadbeenrather higher, suggesting costs o fover $200
millionor around 0.6 percent o f GDP for Vietnam, and costs o f $10-15 billion for East Asia as a whole, about 0.3-
0.5 percent o fregional GDP.


                                                       72

present spread of HPAI of the H5N1 strain involves transmission between animals and (so far) a limited
incidence of transmission between animals and humans; as such, given the lethal nature of the virus,
especially in poultry, it is principally an animal health crisis. However, the emergence of a human
influenza pandemic caused by a lethal virus would have a social and economic impact many times
greater.

Lossesto the Poultry Sector, RelatedIndustries, andInvolved Populations.

6. The economic analysis follows a with-project scenario I without-project scenario approach to estimate
net benefits of the Project to Armenia in the case o f HPAI. The analysis focuses on the benefit o f
averting significant expected costs to the economy of a catastrophic spreading of the disease inArmenia's
poultry flock due to a reduction in the probability of such a catastrophic event. The main costs averted
that are considered inthis analysis are:

(i) dramatic reductions in poultry prices and quantities demanded resulting in large-scale decreases in
value added in the poultry sector (adjusted however for the positive substitution effect into other sources
ofprotein, notably redmeat and fish);
(ii) ofcapitalassetsduetodecommissioningasaresultlongtermdecreasesindemandandofpoultry
    loss
stock due to culling; and,
(iii) costofcullinginoutbreakareasitself(andotheractivitiestostemthefurtherspreadingaboveand
     the
beyond what would be done inthe with project scenario).

7. Costs related to illness or death o f humans (either in one country or internationally) as a result of
infection from continual AI outbreaks inArmenia are not estimated owing to the current lack of adequate
information on the probabilities o f virus mutation and transmissibility. Given the time constraints and
unavailability of precise data on some of the variables used in the analysis, this should be treated as a
simulation exercise that indicates that even under very conservative assumptions and with only few of the
benefits quantified, the returns on the project investments are sizeable.

Scenarios Considered

8. The without-uroiect scenario: As a result of the low capacity o f government and the poultry industry
to deal with outbreaks, the sector is vulnerable to a catastrophic AI occurrence. This catastrophic event
(CE) would be characterized by multiple, simultaneous outbreaks leading to a spread of the disease to
large sections of the country's poultry flock. Significant numbers of poultry would have to be culled with
associated costs o f culling and compensation to the farmers incurred by the state and the private sector.
Subsequently, there wouldbe massive public aversion to poultryconsumption leading to a significant and
sustaineddrop inprices anddemand for poultry.

9.        Inturn, the poultry sector remains depressed inthe medium term, leading to large sunk costs in
the form of abandoned facilities. The public substitutes red meat, fish and other sources of protein for
poultry. Prices of such substitutes go up, leading to increased net revenues for those sectors.'* Overall
consumer surplus decreases.13 (In the long term the sector recovers partially.) The economic analysis



l2In the mediumrun, the redmeat sector may expand, leadingto a reduction inprice levels.
l3CS ofthose consumers who have to switch to substitutesdecreasesbecause(i) products are not their first choice; (ii)
                                                                                     those                                      the
price increase inthe other products. Consumers who are risk averse andcontinue to consume poultry products experience an
increase inCS inthe short runas poultryprices go down before the sector adjustsand supply decreases. Consumer surplus
related to substitutesdecreases as aresult o fprice increases, at least inthe short runbefore the sector adjusts and supply expands.
The overall impact on CS is expectedto be negative as consumersare forced to consume amix that does not representtheir first
preference.


                                                                  73

assigns the CE described above an annual probability o f occ~rrence.'~ Under this scenario, this
probability increases annually as the virus inthe environment becomes endemic.

10.       Thewith-uroiect scenario. The project builds capacity on the part of local government agencies
and the private sector to respond effectively to outbreaks in such a way that multiple and simultaneous
outbreaks may be contained with much higher efficiency, leading to a lower annual probability of the
worst case scenario occurring. This is achieved through: (i)                 the adoption of a country-specific strategy
(and its corresponding information system) to control and eradicate HPAI in areas of risk; (ii)the
strengthening of disease surveillance and diagnostic capacity; (ii)                   the implementation of an outbreak
containment plan, including deployment of supplies and incineration investments infield and certification
of readiness for rapidresponse inareas at risk (all under Component 1: Animal Health).

11.       Significant support to public awareness raising (under Component 3: Public Awareness and
Implementation Support) will also help to: (i)           increase the level o f information among producer groups
and their families and hence support the containment o f the disease inrisk areas; and, (ii)                 increase public
confidence that the outbreaks will be contained effective and hence not lead to widespread illness among
humans, which should reduce the risk of significant drops in demand for poultry products. The positive
impact under this withproject scenario is measured through a decrease inthe annual probability of a CE.

Estimation of Benefits and Costs of the Project

12.       Inthis sectionwepresentthemethodsusedtoestimatethemaincosts andbenefitsoftheproject,
including assumptions made in this process. It is underlined that the objective of the analysis is to
provide an order of magnitude approximation rather than precise estimates. Table 1 summarizes base
case assumptions on key parameters which are discussed below. 2004 GDP contribution values are used.
An annual average exchange rate of 486 dram/$ for 2004 is usedto convert these figures intoU S Dollars.
The period o f analysis is 15 years, beginning in 2006. An annual discount rate of 12% is used in
calculating the NPV,


      Parameter                                                                                                    Value
1     Annual probability o f CE occurring infirst year o f wlout project scenario (2006)                           15.O%
2     Annual increase inprobability o f CE occurring                                                                1.O%
3     Probabilityreduction factor due to project                                                                    12%
4     Decrease o fpoultry sector added value due to CE, inyear o f CE andinlongterm                             40%, 20%
                                                                                                   ~
      new market equilibrium
5     One time loss o f capital inpoultrysector                                                                     20%
6     Increase invalue added of redmeat andfish sectors, inyear o f CE and inlong                                 lo%, 5%
      term new market eauilibrium

13.       Without Project Scenario            In this scenario, the main costs to the economy of multiple,
simultaneous outbreaks that cannot be contained properly due to insufficient public and private sector
capacity is the net cost incurred as a result of significant decrease in demand for poultry products,
including meat and eggs. The net cost represents cost to the poultry sector and the positive impact on
alternative proteinsources, notably the redmeat and fish sub-sectors.


l4There are severalreasonsfor the focus inthis analysis on a catastrophic eventrather than multiple eventso fvarying degrees of
severity: (i)
            aprobabilitydistribution for eventso f varying severity is not available; (ii) to the first point, employing an
                                                                                        related
approacho fthe worst casescenario allows for simplicity inthe analysisthrough the use a single variable probability. One can
vary the assumedprobability and see the impact on the net benefit due to the project.




                                                              74

(i)     It is assumed that inthe year inwhich the CE occurs, the impact on the poultry sector is a 40%
        decrease in the value added o f production o f meat and eggs. Inthe subsequent three years, the
        value added inthe poultry sector i s assumedto regain 80% ofthe pre-CE level.
(ii)    A further, one-time cost to the poultry sector occurs inthe form of abandoned capital production
        assets as a result of the permanent decrease in demand and poultry stock that has to be culled in
        response to the outbreaks. This loss i s estimated at 20% o f the capital stock. The value o f the
        poultry sector capital stock itself is assumed to be equal to three times the value o f annual
        production it the poultry sector.
(iii)   Gains to the redmeat and fisheries sub-sectors that are alternative sources ofprotein are assumed
        to be 10%of the value added inthe year inwhich the CE occurs, gradually decreasing to 5% over
        the following 3 years.

14.     The Government and the private sector would also incur incremental cost associated to the
administration of containing the outbreaks. However, these costs are extremely difficult to estimate and
are hence not included in this analysis. As discussed above, there i s a significant loss o f consumer
surplus resulting from the perceived risk associated with poultry product consumption. These losses are
not captured in the GDP data uses since the latter reflect production values. However, shortage o f data
makes it impossible to quantifythis loss.

15.     The stream o f total annual costs due to a CE in a particular year thus obtained is summarized in
the form on present value as o f the year of the CE. This value is then multiplied with the probability o f
the CE occurring in a particular year to arrive at the expected cost. Inthe without project scenario, the
probability o f the CE occurring i s assumed to be 15%in2006, increasing annually at a rate o f 1.O% due
to increasing presence o f the virus in the environment. This process results in an increasing stream o f
expectedcosts for the period 2006 - 2020, as presented inTable 2.


                        Year   `06     `07     `08     `09     `10       ... `17        `18       `19       `20
                              I       I
Costs due to a CE(inNPV       I
terms )                        83.2   183.2
Probability o f CE
occurring (%) inthe wlout
project scenario               15      16      17      18      19             25        25        25        25
                                                      ~       ~         ~    ~         ~         ~         ~         ~


Expectedcosts inthe
wlout project scenario         12.47 13.31 14.14 14.97 15.80
Probability o f CE
occurring(%) inthe with
project scenario                15.0    16.0 14.08 12.39 10.90                 9.60      9.60      9.60      9.60
Expectedcosts inthe with
project scenario               12.48 13.31 11.71 10.31 9.07                   7.98      7.98      7.98      7.98
Expectedcosts averted due
to project                             -        2.42 4.67    I  6.74    I    112.80 12.80 12.80  I         I12.80
                                                      ~                                ~


Projectcost                    0.3     4.3     3.5   I 1.1 I

16       With-project Scenario It is assumedthat the positive impact o f the project will be felt starting in
the third year of the project, 2008. Inother words, the probability o f the full impact o f the catastrophic
event being felt i s assumedto range from 15-16%in2006 - 2007, as under the without project scenario.
Fromyear 3, the annual probabilities are gradually reducedthanks to the project. The stream o f expected



                                                    75

costs in this scenario are calculated by multiplyingthese probabilities with respective NPVs o f costs and
presented inTable 2.

17.      The total project cost is estimated at US$9.2, which would disburse over four years: $0.3 million,
$4.3 million, $3.5 million, and $1.1million in2006,2007,2008, and2009.

Resultsof the Analysis

18.      Basedon the above assumptions, the analysis yields anNPV of $ 37.2 million and an internal rate
o f return o f 69.9 %.

SensitivityAnalysis

19       A sensitivity analysis was carriedout to gauge the impact ofvarying assumptions onthe results of
internal rate o f return of the project. The analysis indicates that the model i s robust as substantial
reductions (or increases) inthe assumedvalues are necessary for the IRR decrease to 20%, notably:

           Holding all other values constant, assuming a value added loss inthe poultry sector to 5% inthe
           CEyear and 1%inthe longterm (as opposed to the basevalues o f40% and20% );
       0   Reducing the losses sustained by the poultry sector interms o f value added loss (from 40% to
           20% inthe CE year and from 20% to 10% in the long term), while also increasing the gain in
           the redmeat and fisheries sectors (fi-om 10%to 20% inthe first year and from 5% to 10%inthe
           longrun); and,
       0   Reducing the probability o f the CE in 2006 to 4% (from the base case value o f 15%) and the
           annual increase inprobability to 0.2% (from 1%).

20.      The IRR was not found to be very sensitive to variations inthe value of the share o f capital loss
o f investment inthe poultry sector.




                                                     76

                                   Annex 9: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                ARMENIA: AVIAN INFLUENZA PREPAREDNESSPROJECT

1.      Overall, the Project will assist the government to develop a strategy for managing future
emerging and re-emerging zoonotic and infectious disease outbreaks. As a result, the two safeguard
issues which pertain to the Project are those o f environmental assessment for technologies to be deployed
for disposal of culled poultry and of mitigating the negative impacts of mandated culling of poultry on
small scale backyard poultry producers.

2.      In general, activities under the Project are not expected to generate any adverse environmental
effects as they are focused largely on public sector capacity building and improved readiness for dealing
with outbreaks of avian influenza in domestic poultry. These prevention-focused activities are expected
to have a positive environmental impact as the Project's investments infacilities, equipment, and training
for laboratories will improve the effectiveness and safety over existing avian influenza handling and
testing procedures by meeting international standards established by the OIE. This would be reinforced
by the mainstreaming of environmental safeguards into protocols and procedures for the culling and
disposal o f animals duringAI outbreaks.

3.      Whatever medical waste is generated in health care facilities will be managed using existing
guidelines in Armenia, which have been found satisfactory under previous projects. The Project would
also support updating these guidelines, training health care workers to manage medical waste following
these guidelines, and the possible purchase o f equipment for the proper handling and disposal of medical
waste inparticipating facilities. These provisions would be included inthe Project Operational Manual,


Environmentalassessment             Environmental Category                      B


4.      Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plan. Since the Project supports
investments in carcass disposal for culled poultry, the Project is assessed as a B-category project. An
Environmental Assessment (EA) and an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the deployment of
carcass disposal capacity (mainly using bio-thermal holes, but also potentially using mobile incineration
units) will be necessary. This EMPwill also cover the clean up o f animal wastes of culled poultry by the
local public veterinary services supported under the Project. The scope of this EMP will be specified in
early project implementation, as a waiver for the requirement to complete the EA and EMP duringproject
preparation has been sought and obtained per para. 12 of OP 4.01. Preparation of the EA and EMP is
expected early inproject implementation, and their adoption by the Government is set as a disbursement
condition for the Animal Health component ofthe Project.

  SafeguardPoliciesTriggeredbytheProject                                     Yes                No
  Environmental Assessment (OPIBPIGP 4.01)                                   [X1                E1
  Natural Habitats (OPIBP 4.04)                                               t[I
                                                                                l              [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                     XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP 4.11)                       [I               [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                                       [I
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevisedas OP 4.10)                        [I               [X 1
                                                                                               EX1
  Forests (OPIBP 4.36)                                                        11               [X1




                                                      77

  Safety ofDams (OPIBP 4.37)                                                   11                 [X 1
                                                                               [I
  Projectson InternationalWaterways (OPIBPIGP 7.50)
  ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OPIBPIGP 7.60)*                                     [I                xri
                                                                                                  [X1




'Bysupportingtheproposedproject,theBankdoesnotintendtoprejudicethefinaldeterminationoftheparties'claimsonthe
disputedareas


                                                    78

                       Annex 10: Project Preparation andSupervision
             ARMENIA: AVIAN INFLUENZA PREPAREDNESSPROJECT


                                                    Planned            Actual
PCNreview                                       February 2006       February 2006
InitialPID to PIC                               February 2006       February 2006
InitialISDS to PIC                              February 2006       February 2006
Appraisal                                      March 10,2006        March 10,2006
Negotiations                                    April 25,2006       April 27,2006
Board approval                                  May 30,2006
Planneddate o feffectiveness                    June 21,2006
Planneddate o fmid-term review                November 15,2007
Plannedclosing date                              July 31,2009

Key institutionsresponsible for preparation o fthe project:
MinistryofAgriculture andRuralDevelopment, MinistryofHealth

Bankstaffandconsultants who workedontheproject included:

Name                                           Title                  Unit
Mark Lundell                     Lead Agricultural Economist         ECSSD
Artavazd Hakobyan                Operations Analyst                  ECSSD
Robert Bambauer                  Animal Health Specialist           Consultant
Enis Baris                       Senior Public Health Specialist     ECSHD
Mario Bravo                      Senior Communications Officer       EXTRO
Susanna Hayrapetyan              Sr. Health Specialist               ECSHD
Yingwei Wu                       Sr.Procurement Specialist           ECSPS
ArmanVatyan                      Financial Management Specialist     ECSPS
Jean Charles de Daruvar          Senior Counsel                      LEGEC
Junk0 Funahashi                  Senior Counsel                      LEGEC
Andrina Ambrose                  Senior Finance Officer              LOAGl
Irene Bomani                     Senior ProgramAssistant             ECSSD
Amy Evans                        Project Implementation              ECSSD
                                 Specialist, Consultant
Aras Berenjforoush               Legal Consultant                    LEGEC

Bankfunds expendedto date onproject preparation:
     1. Bankresources:                US$74,000
    2. Trust fknds (FAOICP):          US$9,000
    3. Total:                         US$83,000

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
    Estimatedannual supervision cost: US$90,000




                                                79

                           Annex 11: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
           ARMENIA: AVIAN INFLUENZA PREPAREDNESS PROJECT

A.   BANK

  e  Guidance notes to country teams onrespondingto AI
  e Rapidassessment o fthe economic impact o fpublic healthemergencieso f international concern-the
     example of SARS -MilanBrahmhatt
  e  Vietnam Avian InfluenzaEmergency Recovery Project -Memorandumo fthe President and Technical
     Annex
  e  Minutes ofthe meetingon the Emergingzoonoses andpathogens: A Globalpublic goods concern-
     implicationfor the World Bank, April 19,2005
  e  IssuesNote on Avian Influenza inAfrica, September 27,2005. -Frangois Le Gall and Ok Pannenborg

B.   OTHERDONORS

  a  A global strategy for the progressive control ofHPAI-FAOIOIEincollaborationwithWHO -May
     2005
  e  FAO's response to the avianinfluenza crisis -September 19,2005
  e  Technical CooperationProgram-Project descriptions for East Afnca, West Africa, Europe and Central
     Asia, NorthAfrica, andthe Middle East-WHO 2005

C.   PUBLICHEALTHRELATED

  e  Global avian influenza information from WHO Web site at ~ . w h o . i n ~ c s r l d l s e a s e l a ~influenza
                                                                                                          a n
  e  InformationonUS.influenza preparednessavailable at: ~ . ~ s . g o v l n ~ o l ~ a n d e m i c s l d ~ sand  . h t m l
     www.cdc.govlflulavian
  e  WHO. 2005. Responding to the avian influenzapandemic threat. Recommended strategic actions.
     Geneva.
  a  WHO. 2005. WHO global influenzapreparednessplan. The role ofWHO andrecommendations for
     national measuresbefore andduringpandemics. Geneva.
   e UnitedStates Department o fHealthandHuman Services. 2005. Pandemic FluFact Sheet,
   e United StatesDepartment o f HealthandHumanServices. 2004. Pandemic Influenza Preparednessand
     ResponsePlan. Draft.
   e Browner, J., and Chalk, P. 2003. The Global Threat o fNew andReemergingInfectious Diseases.
     ReconcilingUS.National Security andPublic HealthPolicy. SantaMonica, CA: RAND.
  e  Dowdle, W.R. 1997. The 1976Experience. J. Infect Dis 1997; 176 (suppl. 1): 569-72.
   e Garcia-Abreu, A., Halperin, W., Dane1I.2002. Public Health Surveillance Toolkit. A guide for busy
     task managers. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
   e Huffinan, S., on the basis o freportby DanielMiller andAsel Ryskulova. 2005. Epidemiologic
     Surveillance Systems inEastern Europe and Central Asia: An Overview. Washington, D.C.: World
     Bank.
   a Neustadt, R.E., FinebergH.V. 1982. The Epidemic That Never Was. Policy Makmg and the Swine
     Flue Scare. Vintage Books.




                                                 80

D.      ANIMAL HEALTHRELATED

OIE website on Avian Flu Official reporting, Scientific information, Standards, Guidelines, and
Recommendations(-

FA0 website on Avian FluGeneral information,Communication, Publications,Projectsproposals andreports
(www.fao.org)

FAOIOIE. February 2005. Second FAO/OIE Regional Meeting on Avian Influenza Control in Asia. Ho Chi
MinhCity,

FAOIOIE. February, 2004. Recommendations of the Joint FAO/OIE Emergency Regional Meeting on Avian
Influenza Control in Animals in Asia. Bangkok.

FAOIOIE. March 2005. Summary Report of the First Regional Steering Committee of GF-TADS (Global
Frameworkfor theProgressive Control of TransboundaryAnimal Diseases) in Asia and thePacijic. Tokyo.

FAOIOTE/WHO. February, 2004. FAO/OIE/WO Technical Consulta~ionon the Control of Avian Influenza, 3-
4 February, 2004: Conclusionsand ~ecommendations.

OE. May, 2005. OIE Report of the First Meeting of the Steering Committeeof the Joint OIE/FAONetwork of
Expertise on Avian Influenza (OFFLU). OIE.Paris.

OIEIASEAN. August 2005. TheSoutheastAsia Foot and Mouth Disease Campaign: Business Planfor Phase
III(2006-2008).

OIEIFAO. Network of Expertiseon Avian Influenza (OFFLU). Pans.

OIEIFAO. April, 2005. International ScientiJic Conference on Avian Influenza, OIE Paris, France 7-8 April
2005: ~ecommendations.Paris.

E.      BIBLIOGRAPFIYOFRECENTREPORTS& OTHERDOCUMENTS


Bell, Clive andMaureenLewis. October 2004. TheEconomicImplications of Epidemics Old and New.
WorkingPaperNumber54, Center for GlobalDevelopment. Washington, DC. (seealso Powerpoint
presentation, "EconomicImplications of Epidemics Old and New").

OIE, 2004. Emerging Zoonoses andPathogensof Public Health Concern. Rev. sci. tech. Off. int.Epiz.,
2004,23 (2).

FAOIOIE.February2005. SecondFAO/OIE Regional Meeting on Avian Influenza Control in Asia. Ho
ChiMinhCity.

FAOIOIE.February, 2004. Reco~mendationsof theJoint FAO/OIE EmergencyRegional Meeting on
Avian Influenza Control inAnimals in Asia. Bangkok.

FAOIOIE.March2005. Summary Report of theFirst Regional Steering Committeeof GF-TADS (Global
Frameworkfor theProgressiveControl of TransboundaryAnimal Diseases) in Asia and the Pacijic.
Tokyo.


                                                81

FAOIOIEfWHO.February, 2004. FAO/OIEhWO TechnicalConsultation on the Control of Avian
Influenza, 3-4 Februaly, 2004: ConclusionsandRecommendations.

Ferguson, Neil et al. 2005. Strategiesfor Containing an Emerging Influenza Pandemic in SoutheastAsia.
Nature.

OE. May, 2005. OIEReport of theFirst Meeting of theSteeringCommitteeof theJoint OIE/FAO
Network of Expertise onAvian Influenza (OFFLU). OIE. Paris.

OIEIASEAN.August 2005. TheSoutheastAsia Foot andMouth Disease Campaign: Business Planfor
PhaseIII(2006-2008).

OIEIFAO. Network of Expertise onAvian Influenza (OFFLV.Paris.

OIEIFAO.April, 2005. International Scientijk Conference onAvian Influenza, OIEParis, France 7-8
April 2005: Recommendations.Paris.

Sandman, Peter and Jody Lanand.2005. Bird Flu: Communicating.Perspectives inHealth, Vol. 10, No. 2.
Pan American HealthOrganization. Washington, DC.

Schudel, A. August 2005. TacklingAvian Influenza at Source.Avian Influenza Technical Discussion&
Coordination Meeting(Powerpoint presentation). Washington, DC.

Smolinski, Mark, MargaretA. Hamburg, and Joshua Lederburg (Editors). 2005. MicrobialThreats to
Pandemic Influenza. National Academies Press. Washington, DC.

WHO. 2005. WHOGlobalInfluenza PreparednessPlan: TheRole of WHOand ~ecommendationsfor
National MeasuresBefore and During Pandemics. Department of Communicable Disease Surveillance
and Response, Global Influenza Program. Geneva.
WHO, January 2005. Influenza Pandemic Preparednessand Response: Reportbythe Secretariat.
ExecutiveBoard, 115* Session, Agenda Item4.17. Geneva.

World Bank. July 2,2004. TechnicalAnnexfor a Proposed Credit of SDR3.5 million to the Socialist
Republic of Vietnamfor anAvian Influenza Project. Washington, DC.




                                                   82

                              Annex 12: StatementofLoansand Credits
                    ARMENIA AVIAN INFLUENZAPREPAREDNESSPROJECT



                                                                                                Difference
                                                                                            betweenexpected
                                                                                                 andactual
                                         OriginalAmount inUS$Millions                          disbursements

Project     FY    Purpose               IBRD     IDA       SF      GEF    Cancel. Undisb.    Orig.       Frm.
ID                                                                                                      Rev'd
PO83352   2006   RENEWENERGY             0.00    5.oo    0.00      0.00    0.00      5.04    0.00        0.00
PO93459    2006  AM -PRSC2               0.00    20.00   0.00      0.00    0.00    20.43     0.00        0.00
PO87011   2006    RURENT& AGFW DEVT      0.00    20.00   0.00      0.00    0.00     18.11    -0.96       0.00
PO57880    2006   URBANHEAT              0.00    15.00   0.00      0.00    0.00     12.69                0.00
PO87641    2005   YEREVANWATERlWW        0.00    20.00   0.00      0.00    0.00     16.36    6.05        0.00
                  SERVS
PO74503    2004   EDUCQUAL &             0.00    19.00   0.00      0.00    0.00     14.83    4.25         1.34
                  RELEVANCE(APL#1)
PO73974    2004   HEALTHSYSMOD(APL       0.00    19.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     16.22    8.77        0.80

PO88499    2004   IRRIGDAMSAFETY2        0.00    6.75     0.00     0.00    0.00      5.78    0.54         0.00
PO63398    2004   MUNWATER&WW            0.00    23.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     15.07    4.70         0.00
PO60786    2004   PUBSECTMOD             0.00    10.15    0.00     0.00    0.00      9.02    2.95         0.00
PO87620    2004   SOCPROTADMIN           0.00    5.15     0.00     0.00    0.00      4.77     1.86       -0.04
PO44852    2002   ENTINCUBATORLIL        0.00    5.00     0.00     0.00    0.00       1.93    1.23        0.85
PO55022    2002   IRRIGDEVT              0.00    24.90    0.00     0.00    0.00       9.22   4.29         0.00
PO57847    2002   NATRES MGMT            0.00    8.30     0.00     0.00    0.00       6.85   0.98         0.00
PO69917    2002   NATRES MGMT(GEF)       0.00    0.00     0.00     5.12    0.00       3.75   0.92         0.00
PO57838    2001   JUDICIALREFORM         0.00    11.40    0.00     0.00    0.00       1.58   -0.44        0.00
PO57952    2000   SIF 2                  0.00    20.00    0.00     0.00    0.00       0.14   -0.74        0.00
PO08276    1999   ELECTRANSM& DISTR      0.00    21.00    0.00     0.00    0.00       0.95   0.26         0.18
PO64879    1999   IRRIGDAMSAFETY         0.00    26.60    0.00     0.00    0.00       8.16   7.88         2.44
                                 Total:




                                       STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                       InMillions ofUS Dollars


                                              Committed                            Disbursed
                                             TFC                                 IFC

      FY Approval Company         Loan      Equity    Quasi   Partic.  Loan      Equity   Quasi    Partic.
      2002        ACBA Leasing       2.00     0.27     0.00    0.00      2.00     0.27     0.00      0.00
      2004        Armeconombank      2.00     0.00     0.00    0.00      2.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
      2000        HotelArmenia       0.00     0.00     3.57    0.00      0.00     0.00     3.57      0.00
      2004        HotelArmenia       0.00     0.00     1.25    0.00      0.00     0.00     1.25      0.00




                                                  83

                                                      Annex 13: Countryat a Glance
                       ARMENIA AVIAN INFLUENZA PREPAREDNESSPROJECT



                                                                Europe&        Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                  Central    middle-
                                                         Armenia    Asia      income      kavelopmentdiamond'

2004
Population,mid-year (mil/ions)                               3.0      472       2,430
GNI per capita (At/as method, US$)                         1,070    3,290       1,580                   Lifeexpectancy
GNI (AUas method, US$bii/ions)                               3.3    1,553       3,847                          -

Average annual growth, 199844
Population (%)                                              -0.7      -0.1        1.o
Laborforce (%)                                               0.7      -0.5        0.7     GNI                                  Gross
                                                                                          per                                 primar]
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199844)                                      capita                            enrollmen
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)              51
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                        64        64         49
Lifeexpectancyat birth(years)                                75        68         70
Infantmortality(per 1,000 livebirths)                        30        29         33
Child malnutrition (% ofchildrenunder5)                        3                   11            Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopu/ation)           92        91         01
Literacy(% ofpopulationage 15+)                              99        97         90
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)          99        101        114        ---Armenia
   Male                                                     100        103        115        -Lo~r-midd/e-incomegroup
   Female                                                    97        101        113

KEYECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                    1984   1994     2003        2004      iconomicratios*
GDP (US$ bitims)                                             1.3       2.8        3.5
Grosscapital formationlGDP                                  23.5     24.7        24.2
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                            39.3     31.9        33.1                        Trade
Gross domesticsavingslGDP                                  -10.3       6.0                                     -
GrossnationalsavingslGDP                                              18.0       19.2

Currentaccount balancelGDP                                 -12.3      -6.7       -4.9
InterestpaymentslGDP                                         0.3       0.4        0.3     Domestic                         Capital
Total debtlGDP                                              16.3     40.2        31.7     savings                          formation
Totaldebtservicelexports                                     1.7       9.0        5.1
Presentvalue of debtlGDP                                             26.1
Presentvalue of debtlexports                                         69.4
                                                                                                          Indebtedness
                                     1984-94 199444        2003     2004      200448
(average annualgrowth)                                                                        -
GDP                                         ......    7.6   13.9      10.1        7.0                Armenia
GDPper capita                                         8.7   14.4      10.3        7.1                Lower-middle-incomeQrOUP
                                                                                                ~
Exportsofgoodsand services                            7.7   20.2      12.2        9.0


STRUCTUREofthe ECONOMY
                                                    1984   1994     2003        2004                                                 I
1%of GDP)                                                                                 Growthof capitaland GDP(%)
                                                                                            -                                        II
Agriculture                                                 44.9      23.5                40

Industry                                                    37.0      39.2
  Manufacturing                                             30.1      21.9
Services                                                    10.2      37.3
                                                                                             ,     B    Q     W     M     M   O     J  ~
Householdfinalconsumptionexpenditure                        99.1      03.0
Generalgov'tfinal consumptionexpenditure                    11.3      10.3        9.1
Importsof goodsandsentices                                  73.1     49.0



(average annualgrowth)                            198444 199404     2003        2004      Growthof exportsand imports(%)
Agnculture                                                   3 7       4 3
Industry                                                     7 8      232
  Manufactunng                                               5 2      154
Sewces                                                       8 4      104        233      "

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure                        5 5       9 8
Generalgov'tfinal consumptionexpenditure                     1 6      140
Gmsscapitalformahon                                          8 8      355
Importsof goodsand sewices                                   3 7      235


Note: 2004 data are preliminaryestimates.
Thistablewas producedfromthe DevelopmentEconomicsLDBdatabase.
* The diamondsshowfour keyindicatorsin the country(in bold) comparedwith itsincomegroup average. ifdata are missing,the diamondwill
   beincomplete.




                                                                            84

                                                                                                                      Armenia

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                     Il5
                                              1984     1994      2003   2004
Domesticprices                                                                     Inflation(%)

[% change)
Consumerprices                                      4,962.3        4.6    3.2
ImplicitGDP deflator                                4,107.3        4.6    5.9

Government finance
(% of GDP,includescurrentgrants)
Currentrevenue                                         27.7       17.8   14.7
Currentbudget balance                                   -6.6       4.1    1.2    I   '       -GDP      deflator  -cPI           1
Overall sumluddeficit                                  -16.5      -1.3   -3.4

TRADE                                                                                                                           I
                                              1984     1994       2003  2004
[US$ mi//ions)                                                                     Exportand import levels (US$mlll.)

Total exports (fob)                                     215        686   a77       1MO  -
  Gold, jewelry, and otherprecious stones                          351
  Machineryand mechanicalequipment                                  20
  Manufactures                                                     129    167
Total imports(cif)                                      401      1,279  1,338
  Food                                                    71       222
  Fueland energy                                        160        179
  Capitalgoods                                           43        212   259

Exportprice index (2000=1Oq)
Importpriceindex [2000=100)                                                                    Exports         Imports           I
Terms oftrade [2000=100)

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                              1984     1994       2003   2004     1 Current
[US$ mi//ions)                                                                             accountbalanceto GDP (%)              I
Exportsofgoods and services                             257        694  1,151
Importsof goods and services                            518      1,397  1,674
Resourcebalance                                         -261      -503   -524

Net income                                                -7        91    132
Net curent transfers                                     106       225    218

Currentaccount balance                                  -162      -187   -174

 Financingitems(net)                                     159       310    204
Changes innet reserves                                     3      -123     -30

Memo:
 Reserves includinggold [US$millions)                     35       550    534
Conversionrate [DEC, locaVUS$)                         142.2      570.8  533.5

 EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                              1904     1994       2003   2004
 [US$mi//ions)                                                                      Composltlonof 2004debt(US$mill.)

 Total debt outstandingand disbursed                     214      1,127  1,125
   iBRD                                                    2         8       7
   IDA                                                     6       662    884      I             F 2 2 G 4 4 A 7

 Total debt service                                        4        95      88
   IBRD                                                    0          1      1
   IDA                                                     0         4       6
 Composition of netresourceflows
   Officialgrants                                        171        53
   Officialcredtors                                       61        44      37
   Privatecreditors                                        0         -6     -4
   Foreigndirectinvestment (net inflows)                   8        121
   Porffolioequity(net inflows)                            0         0

 World Bank program
   Commitments                                            85        40       0      A IBRD                           E Bilateral
   Disbursements                                           7        77      23      B IDA
                                                                                      --       D- Oihermultilateral  F Private
   Principalrepayments                                     0          1      2      C-IMF                            G Short-tern
                                                                                                                      ---
   Net Rows                                                7        77      21
   Interestpayments                                        0         5       5
   Nettransfers                                            6        72      16

 Note:This table was producedfromthe DevelopmentEconomics LDB database.                                                  8/24/05




                                                               85


MAP SECTION


                    43E                            GEORGIA                              44E         To T'bilisi                  To T'bilisi                                                              46E    GEORGIA                                      47E


                                                                 To Borjomi
                                                                                            L e ss Tashir
                                                                                                   e  r    C    a   Alaverdi
                                                                                                                  u                                                              To Gnc
                                                                                                                   ca                                                                                                                                Mingechevir
               41N                                                                                                    s  u                                                                           Kura                                                              41N
                                                                                                    Stepanavan                     s    M     o                                               To Gnc                                               Reservoir
                                                                                                           L O R R I                            u n
                                                                           S H I R A K                                                              t a   in s       Ijevan


                                                                                      Gyumri                       Vanadzor                                     TAV U S H
                                                                  To
                                                                 Kars                                                                                Dilijan


                                                                                          Artik
                                                                                                                                                                        Karmir          Artsvashen

                                                              Arpa                                 Aragats                                        Sevan                                    To
                                                                                                   (4090 m)                                                                              Gnc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ARMENIA
                                                                                                                                               Hrazdan
                                                                                      A R A G AT S O T N
                                                                                                                                                                            Lake
                                                                                                   Ashtarak                 Hrazdan    KOT
                                                                                                                                                            Gavar
                            TURKEY                                                                                                            AYK
                                                                                                                                               YK'                         Sevan

                                                                                                                          YEREVAN                '              G E G H A R K ' U N I K '
                                                                                                                                                                                           Vardenis
                                         Aras                                A R M AV I R                          YEREVAN
                                                                                Armavir                                                                                      Martuni

                                                                                                                                                                                    s  R  a  ng    e
               40N                                                                                                                                                        d   n  i                                                                                     40N
                                                                                                                         Artashat                                    Va   r  e

                                                                                                                        Aras            A R A R AT
                      This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                      VAY O T S '
                      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                   Ararat
                      shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                         Jermuk
                      Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                        D Z O R
                      endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                          Yegegnadzor
                   43E                                                                  44E                                                                           Arpa                                                       AZERBAIJAN
                                                                                                                                                                                       Vaik
                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                     Naxivan                                                Angekhakot
                            ARMENIA                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Goris      Qubadli



                                                                                                                                                            Aras                                                        Vor otan
                                                                                                                                                                                        To Naxivan                                         To
                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                Qubadli

                                  PROVINCE (MARZ) CAPITALS                                                                                                              AZERBAIJAN                         Z a n g eSz uYr U NKapanI K '
                                                                                                      ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                  RIVERS                                                                          OF IRAN

                                  MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                   0    10             20       30    40      50 Kilometers                                               R a n g e
SEPTEMBER                         RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                           Aras
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        39NIBRD
                                  PROVINCE (MARZ) BOUNDARIES                                                       0               10             20        30 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To Fzili
                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                      33364
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Megri
         2004
                                                                                                                                                          45E                                               To Ordubad                                              47E

