                                                                                          46126

                                PROJECT PAPERDATA SHEET


Date:   September 15,2008                         Task Team Leader: Brian Bedard
Country: Armenia                                   Sector ManagerAIirector: Peter Thompson
Project Name: Avian InfluenzaPreparedness          Country Director: DonnaDowsett-Coirolo
                Project                            Environmental Category:B
Project ID: PO99832




FY                2007            2008             2009
Annual            1,772,362.71    2,000,000        2,477,637.29
Cumulative        1,772,362.71    3772,362.71      6,250,000.00




Does the restructuredproject require any exceptions to Bank policies?          I -  Yes -x-No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                        Yes -No
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                        Yes -x-No

                                                                               I
Revisedproject development objective/outcomes

The overall objective of theproject is to minimize the threat in Armeniaposed by HPAI infection
as well as other livestock diseases and topreparefor the control and response to an influenza
pandemic and other zoonotic or infectious disease emergencies in humans.

Does the restructuredproject trigger any new safeguard policies? N o Ifso, click here to indicate
which one(s) [selection box like the one in the new ISRJ


                     Source                            Local         Foreign            Total
Borrower
IBRD/IDA
Others


A.       IntroductoryStatement

1.     This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to restructure the Armenia
Avian Influenza Preparedness Project (Credit No. 4178) to reflect the changed country needs and
address other equally critical emergencies. The risk o f avian influenza remains an ongoing
concern but recent outbreaks o f African Swine Fever (ASF) and concurrent zoonotic diseases
such as brucellosis are deemed to be o f equal relevance and are now a high priority for the
Government. This paper i s based on a formal request from the Minister of Agriculture indicating
the pressing need to broaden the scope of the project to cover other animal and public health
issues. The ongoing epidemic o f ASF, which began in April, 2007, i s causing substantial
economic losses affecting the livelihoods o f smallholder farmers and the incomes o f medium-
sized swine enterprises.

2.     The required changes in the project essentially involve a revision to the Project's
Development Objectives to allow the project to encompass some o f these other pressing issues
yet preserve the integrity o f the original Project design related to avian influenza. Many of the
project activities that are intendedto control avian influenza are also effective approaches for the
prevention and control o f other animal diseases o f public health concern. These activities include
disease surveillance, information systems, compensation funds, communication, etc.

3.     The following changes inthe Avian InfluenzaPreparednessProject andthe associated legal
documents are proposed: (i)the Project Development Objectives would be modified to expand
the scope of planned interventions to include other livestock diseases ;(ii) "Animal Disease
                                                                                the
Control and Compensation Fund", developed under the Project, would be expanded to include
compensation for animals culled to control other livestock diseases; (iii)the scope o f project
activities and inputs would be expanded to include measures for the control of other zoonotic and
animal diseases.

4.     No additional financing is being requested for this restructuring and the proposed activities
will be fundedthrough reallocationwithin the existing project.

B.       Backgroundand Reasonsfor Restructuring

5.     The Armenia Avian Influenza Preparedness Project (AIP) was approved in June 2, 2006
and became effective in September 5, 2006. The project's original Development Objectives are to
minimize the threat in Armenia posed to humans by the highly pathogenic avian influenza
(HPAI) and other zoonoses indomestic poultry, and to prepare for the control and response to an
influenza pandemic and other infectious disease emergencies in humans.             The project was
originally designed to support three areas: (i)prevention, (ii) preparedness and planning and (iii)
response and containment. The project has been making satisfactory progress to date and, as a
result, it has been acknowledged by key stakeholders and partners duringthe mid-term review in
February 2008 that Armenia was now better prepared for an outbreak o f avian influenza and other
diseasesthan it had been prior to the project. This was particularly apparent inthe response to the
recent outbreak o f African swine fever, where the Armenian authorities were able to implement
measures that limited the spread o f the disease to only few regions (marzes). Armenia continues
to be free o f Avian Influenzaandthe risk o f a significant outbreak has diminished.

6.     The Development Objectives and the initial Project components continue to be relevant.
Expanding the scope o f the Project Development Objectives, however, to broaden the Project's
impact on animal health issues would address the current emergencyto control ASF epidemic and
incorporate other disease priorities while maintaining the original project design.

7.    During appraisal o f the AIP it was recognized that the prevention and control of avian
influenza could only be achieved through the development o f the veterinary and public health
infrastructure which had deteriorated after the collapse o f the Soviet Union. The Project had,
therefore, already envisaged support for fundamental capacity building such as laboratory
infrastructure, developing response capacity for veterinary and human health emergencies,
establishment o f a compensation fund, and improving risk communication at the local and
national levels.

8.    The improved preparedness with Project support has contributed to a reducedrisk for avian
influenza inArmenia. The country i s now muchbetter prepared for a potential outbreak of avian
influenza and the Project ideally positioned to concurrently respond to the epidemic of the
African swine fever without compromising the fundamental development objectives o f the
Project.   The resources (emergency vehicles, disinfection and culling equipment), technical
assistance (epidemiology, disease surveillance system, MIS), communication and training
provided through the project, were effectively utilizedduringthe African swine fever outbreak in
August 2007.

9.    At the same time Armenia continues to experience significant levels of zoonotic diseases
such as brucellosis in livestock and people which are comparable to other countries inthe region.
Minor adjustments in the capacity building interventions under the AIP including technical
assistance related to epidemiology, support for the national animal disease surveillance system
and public awareness would similarly address this serious problem while continuing to develop
capacity to prevent avian influenza.

10.   In summary, the reasons for restructuringwere analyzed and agreed with key stakeholders
at the mid-term review o f the project: (i)the need to adjust resources to address the current
epidemic of the African swine fever which causes substantial economic losses for smallholder
farmers; (ii)the lack o f incidence o f HPAI in Armenia and improved preparedness o f the
veterinary services leading to a reduced risk assessment for the disease; (iii)the Government's
increased interest in improving the animal health situation in the country especially for zoonotic
diseases; (iv) the availability of significant cooperation in donor support for Avian Influenza
Preparedness, which allows for minor restructuring o f the Project; and (v) the restructuring and
adjusting the project as proposed would provide a more sustainable impact for the project without
compromising the objectives related to avian influenza underthe AIP.

C.      Proposed Changes

11.   RevisedProject Development Objectives: Based on the mid-termreview it has been agreed
with the Government that the Project's Development Objectives should be revisedt o more
accurately reflect what can be achieved with the available funds, and with the prevailing
veterinary emergency situation in the country.        The agreed revised Project Development
Objective ofthe Project reads as follows:

    "The objective of the project is to minimize the threat in Armenia posed by HPAI infection
    and other livestock diseases and to prepare for the control and response to an influenza
    pandemic and other zoonoses or irqectious disease emergencies in humans."

12.   Revised Project Activities: The following activities are expanded to support the revised
Project Development Objectives.

        a. Compensation: The compensation fund under the project would also allow for
             compensation for ASF, thus responding to the needs o f the Government to

                                                3

              compensate pig farmers' losses due to mandatory culling o f pigs during the ASF
              outbreak. A reallocation o f US$300,000 to the Compensation Fund category of the
              Project would be recommended, to increase the category to US$1,050,000. Out of
              these finds US$750,000 would be earmarked for compensation under ASF, and
              US$300,000       would be earmarked for the compensation under AI. This
              recommendation is based on the updated risk assessment for Avian Influenza for
              Armenia, which indicates that the risk has diminished substantially.

          b. Additional supportfor disease emergency management. The Project would support
              additional measures for the management o f disease emergencies. These measures
              would include additional special vehicles, disinfectants and equipment for controlling
              the outbreak o f ASF. This recommendation i s based on the updated needs assessment
              o f the country's veterinary services.

          c. Public awareness and communication: The project would support enhancement o f
              the public awareness and communication activities by focusing on activities which
              would be specific, targeted with explicit public health related outputs and outcomes.
              Public awareness and communication would be enhanced by reallocating
              US$140,000 o f IDA funds for these activities.

          d. Training and technical assistance: The project would expand the scope of training
              and technical assistance activities to include a broader capacity building for
              veterinary emergency management, participatory epidemiology, clinical diagnosis of
              a list o f several important animal diseases, especially zoonoses.

          e. Animal disease surveillance and information system. The animal disease surveillance
              and information system will be modified to encompass the needs o f both, the ASF
              and brucellosis control programs without significant              additional budgetary
              commitments.

          f. Environmental Management Plan (EMP)). The restructured project is using the
              existing EMP and the additional activities are expected to encompassed by this EMP
              which was disclosed. Regardless, an activity will be included to review the disclosed
              EMP in the context of the new activities to ensure compliance and to incorporate
              appropriate and specific reference to the additional animal diseases.

 13.    Reallocation o f Proceeds: Project activities and priorities were reviewed during the mid-
 term review. It was agreed to reallocate funds to increase the compensation funding and to
 finance the increased scope o f the public awareness and communication activities. Additional
 activities for other components o f the project will be covered under the existing allocations as
 well as through additional funds being available through SDR/USD exchange rate gains. The
 project costs have been revised accordingly. The revised category schedule i s presented below:

~                                         Category                                         SDR
  (1) Goods, works, consultant services and training under Part Io fthe Project,            1,590,000
 excluding Part 1.3.(a) and I.3.(d)
  (2) Goods, works, consultant services and training under Part I1o fthe Project            1,120,000
 (3) Goods, works, consultant services and training under PartI11o fthe Project              230,000
 (4) CompensationFundunder Part I.        3(a)                                               650,000
 (5) Poultry Restructuring Sub-projects under Part 1.3 (d)                                   350,000
 (6) Eligible imported goods and commodities required for the Project as specified in         160,000



                                                    4

 (7)Operational Costs                                                                       260,000
(8) Uallocated                                                                               40,000
TOTAL                                                                                     4,400,000


D.      Analysis

14.    The proposedchange o f the Project's Deveiopment Objectives allows the project to address
prevailing veterinary emergency issues while maintaining the original focus on avian influenza
preparedness. The broadened objectives expand project impacts and outcomes. The original
outcome targets continue to remain relevant and can also serve to track the expanded scope of the
Project. Expanding o f the scope o f the project is an acknowledgement o f the need to respond to
the country's need to control African swine fever epidemic, address other disease priorities such
as brucellosis and reflects the suitability o f the project design to support interventions in this
regard.

15.    The original analyses at project appraisal focused on the benefits derived from
preparedness and control o f the Avian Influenza, however, it was acknowledged that the Project's
benefits would be larger since it was going to provide a general level of capacity buildingfor the
veterinary and human health services which is now coming to fruition.               The proposed
restructuring will further contribute to this capacity building and improve the overall impact of
the project. The project management, implementation arrangements, financial and economic
analysis remain unchanged from the existingproject.

E.      ExpectedOutcomes

16.    Neither the change o f Project's Development Objectives, nor the reallocation o f proceeds
would require revision o f the project outcomes. The outcomes continue to be relevant and
significant; the indicators would serve as the proxies to track the expanded scope o f the project.
An additional outcome indicator would be added to monitor the impact of improved animal
disease surveillance including the scope o f data collection and reporting and, ultimately, the
contribution to a reduction indisease incidence and prevalence.

The suggested new indicator would be: an effective mechanism for regular disease monitoring
and reporting is beingimplemented inthe National Animal Disease Surveillance System.

F.      Benefitsand Risks

17.    The added benefits o f implementing this restructuring include controlling the ASF
epidemic, which has resulted in considerable loss o f incomes for smallholder farmers as well as
medium sized enterprises in Armenia. Additional benefits include the reduction o f brucellosis
and other zoonotic diseases, improving the capacity o f the veterinary services and the overall
readiness of the country to respondto disease emergencies.

18.    The decision to compensate farmers' losses from the culling program for the ASF outbreak
demonstrates a significant commitment on the part o f the government that was difficult to achieve
under the risk of avian influenza alone. While the establishment of an Animal Disease and
Control and Compensation Fundwas envisaged inthe original Project design, there has been only
limited progress towards its establishment as a result o f the reduced risk and concerns related to
avian influenza.    The recent ASF outbreak, however, has ignited interest in this fund and
precipitated action to ratify a decree, charter and operational procedures to make the Animal
Disease Control and Compensation Fund an urgent reality. Reporting o f diseases, as well as
rapid response to the outbreak depend on the fund as an incentive for livestock owners to report

                                                  5

very quickly any sick and dead animals to their veterinarians. For this to happen, adequate
compensation arrangements are absolutely essential. The risk associated with handling the
compensation payments has been addressed in the original project design with payments being
only eligible subject to a fund being established with an operational manual satisfactory to the
Association.

19.   The risks remain the same as described in the PAD of the original project. Evaluations
during the mid-term review, however, suggest that the risks associated with declining political
and financial commitments may be moderately reduced as reflected in the response to legal
reforms and cost-sharing for the revisedcompensation fund. This will be closely monitored and
adjusted accordingly during implementation and subsequent supervision missions.




                                               6

