Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4178 AM 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Avian Influenza Preparedness Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 7, 2006 
 
Page  2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4178 AM 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 7, 2006, between the REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to four 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,400,000) 
(“Credit”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”).  
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project which is 
part of the Association’s Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and 
Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response designed to help countries in 
prevention, containment, control and eradication of avian influenza.  To this end, 
the Recipient shall carry out Part I of the Project through the MoA, Parts II and 
IV of the Project through the MoH, and Part III of the Project through the 
Secretariat of the IMCAI, in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Decree No. 480-N has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the 
opinion of the Association, the implementation of the Project.  
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the Co-financing Grant 
shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or 
in part, pursuant to the terms of the Co-financing Grant 
Agreement. 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:  
(A)  
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not 
caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of 
its obligations under the Co-financing Grant Agreement; 
and  
(B)  
adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Recipient from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under the 
Co-financing Grant Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs. 
Page  5
-
3
-
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the 
event has been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a)  
the Recipient has appointed the head of the Secretariat of IMCAI in 
accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; 
(b) 
the Recipient has appointed the Project Component Coordinators with 
terms of reference and experience satisfactory to the Association; and 
(c)  
the Project Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Association, has been 
adopted by the Recipient. 
 5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and Economy. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economy 
 
1 Melik-Adamyan Street 
 Republic 
Square 
 Yerevan 
375010 
 
Republic of Armenia  
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
243331 LADA SU 
(374-10) 545-815 
Page  6
-
4
-
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Yerevan, Republic of Armenia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA  
 
By /s/ Vardan Khachatryan 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Roger Robinson  
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in minimizing the threat 
posed to humans by the HPAI infection and other zoonoses in domestic poultry, and 
preparing for the control and response to an influenza pandemic and other infectious 
disease emergencies in humans.   
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part I
:
Animal Health
1.  
Support for: (a) the development of a national policy framework and a national 
strategic plan, and the improvement the regulatory framework to address key policy 
issues on the HPAI disease control, prevention and eradication; and (b) updating essential 
information on migratory birds.  
2. 
Provision of support to the Veterinary State Inspection and its affiliated 
laboratories to: (a) strengthen animal disease surveillance and diagnostic capacity; and 
(b) enhance veterinary services. 
3. 
Support to activities related to the implementation of the National Strategy for 
Avian Influenza which details the containment plan for avian influenza outbreaks, 
including: (a) culling of infected and at-risk poultry and establishment and operation of a 
Compensation Fund for the provision of cash compensation to poultry owners for poultry 
culled by Governmental order; (b) disposal of carcasses and potentially infective 
materials in a bio-secure and environmentally acceptable manner; (c) provision of bio-
safety and other appropriate protective clothing to veterinary personnel and to laboratory 
workers; and (d) piloting restructuring modalities for the poultry sector, through the 
financing of Poultry Restructuring Sub-projects. 
Part II
:
Human Health
1. 
Enhancing public health program planning and coordination, through the 
strengthening of institutional and logistical capacity of the MoH to participate in the 
IMCAI and to coordinate with the MoA and other sector representatives the 
implementation of the National Strategy for Avian Influenza. 
2. 
 Strengthening of national public health surveillance systems through: (a) 
improvement of laboratory networks; (b) improvement of health information and 
telecommunication systems; and (c) training of personnel at the MoH and other selected 
agencies and development of standard reporting forms and guidelines. 
3. 
Strengthening health system response capacity through: (a) acquisition of 
vaccines against seasonal and avian influenza; (b) acquisition of anti-virals; and (c) 
acquisition of additional prophylactic and preventive equipment. 
Part III
:
Public Awareness and Implementation Support
1.  
Support to the Secretariat of the IMCAI, the MoH, the MoA and other relevant 
organizations to enhance public awareness about the HPAI, through developing and 
Page  8
-
6
-
implementing a comprehensive communication strategy to educate the general 
population about the risks and potential impact of the pandemic. 
2. 
 Support to the MoH, and the MoA and other relevant organizations to: (a) 
improve coordination and collaboration among stakeholders, through the 
establishment of the Secretariat of the IMCAI; (b) strengthen Project implementation 
and monitoring capacities of the Secretariat of the IMCAI, the MoH and the MoA and 
supporting activities related thereof; and (c) support Project monitoring evaluation and 
impact assessment. 
Part IV
:
Emergency Imports
Financing of emergency imports as specified in Section IV.C of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, subject to such modifications thereof as the Recipient and the 
Association may agree upon from time to time. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I
.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain the IMCAI, throughout the implementation of the 
Project,
 
to approve annual work programs for the implementation of the Project and to 
provide inter-agency coordination, oversight and policy guidance for overall 
implementation of the Project. 
2.  
The ARSP PIU, the HSMP PIU and the Secretariat of the IMCAI shall have 
overall responsibility for day to day implementation and management of Part I of the 
Project, Parts II and IV of the Project and Part III of the Project, respectively. To that end, 
the Recipient, through the MoA, the IMCAI and the MoH, shall maintain the ARSP PIU, 
the HSMP PIU and the Secretariat of the IMCAI throughout the implementation of the 
Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and with sufficient and 
suitable human, financial and technical resources.  The Recipient shall ensure that 
procurement and financial management activities for Part III of the Project shall be the 
responsibility of the ARSP PIU. 
3. 
The Recipient, through the MoA and the MoH, shall maintain the Project 
Component Coordinators throughout the implementation of the Project under terms of 
reference and with experience satisfactory to the Association.  The Project Component 
Coordinators shall be responsible for, in particular: (i) managing implementation of their 
relevant Ministry’s activities under the Project and liaising with the ARSP PIU, the 
HSMP PIU and the Secretariat of the IMCAI; (ii) coordinating with relevant Ministries to 
provide guidance and monitor Project implementation at the central level; and (iii) 
preparing annual work programs, budgets and reports. 
4. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project shall be implemented in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Operational Manual and the Compensation Procedures 
Manual.  The Recipient shall maintain the Project Operational Manual and the 
Compensation Procedures Manual in form and content satisfactory to the Association, 
shall duly perform all its obligations under the Project Operational Manual and the 
Compensation Procedures Manual and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Project Operational Manual and the Compensation Procedures Manual without the prior 
approval of the Association. 
5. 
The Recipient shall take all measures necessary to carry out the EMP in a timely 
manner, ensuring that adequate information on the implementation of the said measures 
is suitably included in the Project Reports referred to in paragraph A of Section II of this 
Schedule 2. 
6.  
The Recipient, through the MoA, shall implement the Poultry Restructuring Sub-
projects in accordance with the Project Operational Manual setting forth criteria and 
procedures for selection of recipients and sub-projects, as well as the main terms and 
conditions of the agreements to be concluded with the recipients.  The Recipient, through 
the MoA, shall ensure that the recipient of any fund under the Poultry Restructuring Sub-
Page  10
-
8
-
projects program, shall carry out the respective sub-project in accordance with the 
approved agreement, timetable and budget. 
7. Midterm 
Review
 
(a)  
On or about November 15, 2007, the Recipient shall carry out jointly, 
with the Association, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project 
(hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).  The Midterm Review shall cover, 
amongst other things: 
(i)  
progress made in meeting the Proj
ect’s objective; and 
(ii)  
overall Project performance against Project performance indicators. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall, prepare, and at least (4) weeks prior to the Midterm 
Review, furnish to the Association, a separate report describing the status of the 
implementation of each component of the Project and a summary report of the Project 
implementation generally. 
(c) 
The Recipient shall, not later than two (2) weeks after the Midterm 
Review, prepare and submit to the Association an action program, acceptable to the 
Association, for further implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the 
Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such action program. 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
Page  11
-
9
-
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular 
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Page  12
-
10
-
Procurement Method
(a) 
Limited International Bidding 
(b) 
National Competitive Bidding of the Recipient may be used for procurement 
of goods and works for the Project, provided that the following provisions are 
complied with: 
 
(i) 
no preference of any kind shall be given based on nationality of the 
bidder and/or origin of goods.  Any regulations issued by a sectoral 
ministry, provincial regulations and local regulations, which restrict 
national competitive bidding procedures to a class of contractors or a 
class of suppliers and/or origin of goods shall not be applicable to 
procurement procedures under the Credit; 
 
(ii) 
entities in which the Republic of Armenia owns a majority 
shareholding shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the 
Government unless they are and can be shown to be legally and 
financially autonomous and operate under commercial law; 
 
(iii) 
post-qualification shall be conducted; 
 
(iv) 
post-qualification criteria shall only pertain to past contract 
performance, financial, managerial and technical capabilities of 
bidders; 
 
(v) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their 
obligations; 
 
(vi) 
estimated contract prices shall not be advertised; and 
 
(vii) 
in handling the bids: 
 
(A) 
bid prices shall be announced at bid opening.  If a two (2) 
envelope system is used, both envelopes shall be opened at 
bid opening and bid prices announced; 
 
(B) 
no bids can be rejected at bid opening; 
 
(C) 
bids shall not be rejected solely because they exceed the 
estimated price; 
 
(D) 
bids can be cancelled and new bids invited, only if the 
conditions of clause 2.61 of the Guidelines are met; and 
 
(E) 
any bid evaluation criteria shall be quantifiable in monetary 
terms or expressed as a pass/fail criteria. 
Page  13
-
11
-
(c) Shopping 
(d) 
Procurement from U.N. Agencies 
(e) Direct 
Contracting 
(f) 
Community Participation in Procurement 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
be
low, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualification 
(b) 
 Individual Consultants 
(c) 
 Single Source Selection 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association. 
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
 1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  14
-
12
-
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated  
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
(1) Goods
,
works, consultant’s 
services and Training under Part 
I
of the Project, excluding Part 
I.3 (a), and Part I.3 (d) of the 
Project 
1,590,000
74% 
(2) Goods, Works, Consultant’s 
services and Training under Part 
II of the Project  
1,120,000
74% 
(3) Goods, Works, Consultant’s 
services and Training under Part 
III of the Project 
230,000
74% 
(4) Compensation Fund under Part 
I.3 (a) of the Project 
510,000
96% 
(5) Poultry Restructuring Sub-
projects under Part I.3. (d) of 
the Project 
350,000
74% 
(6) Eligible Imported Goods and 
Commodities under Part IV of 
the Project as specified in 
Section IV.C of this Schedule 2 
160,000
74% 
(7) Operational Costs 
260,000
74% 
(8) Unallocated 
180,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
4,400,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for: 
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
Page  15
-
13
-
after April 15, 2006, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (2), (3) 
and (7); 
(b)  
expenditures under Category (4) in the table in Part A.2 of Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, unless: (i) the Compensation Fund has 
been established in a manner satisfactory to the Association; (ii) the 
Compensation Procedures Manual, satisfactory to the Association, has 
been adopted by the Recipient: and (iii) the Compensation Fund 
payments are being made in accordance with criteria and procedures set 
forth in the Compensation Procedures Manual; 
(c) 
expenditures under Category (5) in the table in Part A.2 of Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, unless the Poultry Restructuring Sub-
projects are being selected and implemented in accordance with criteria 
and procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual; 
(d)  
expenditures under Categories (1), (4) and (5)  in the table in Part A.2 of 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, unless the EMP, satisfactory 
to the Association, has been adopted by the Recipient; and  
 (e)  
expenditures under Category (6) in the table in Part A.2 of Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement: (i) unless a national emergency on avian 
influenza has been declared by the Recipient and a well-defined 
emergency recovery program, satisfactory to the Association, has been 
adopted by the Recipient; (ii)  for goods supplied under a contract which 
any national or international financing institution or agency other than 
the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance or which the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another Grant or 
Credit; (iii) in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to 75% of the 
amount of the Financing for any category of eligible imports specified in 
Section IV.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement without prior approval by 
the Association; and (iv) for used or luxury goods.
 
2. 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2009. 
Page  16
-
14
-
C.  
List of Eligible Imported Goods and Commodities to be Financed in national 
emergencies under the Credit 
1.  
Pharmaceuticals and vaccines 
2.  
Medical and veterinary supplies and equipment 
3.  
Protective clothing and gear 
Page  17
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each June 15 and December 15: 
 
commencing June 15, 2016 to and including 
December 15, 2025 
 
1% 
commencing June 15, 2026 to and including 
December 15, 2045 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  18
-
16
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“ARSP PIU” means the Agricultural Reform Support Project implementing unit 
within the MoA of the Recipient, established and operating under the Association 
financed Rural Enterprise and Small-scale Commercial Agriculture Development 
Project (Credit Agreement No. 4095 AM, dated July 20, 2005), pursuant to the 
MoA Decree No. 268, dated December 7, 2004. 
2. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Co-financing Grant” means an amount of $803,900 to be contracted between the 
Recipient and the Association, acting as an administrator for the Government of 
Japan, to assist in financing the Project. 
4. 
“Co-financing Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and the Association, as an administrator of the funds 
provided by the Government of Japan for the Co-financing Grant. 
5. 
 “Compensation Fund” means the separate account to be established by the 
Recipient out of the proceeds of the Credit to be utilized to pay cash 
compensation to poultry owners for poultry culled and referred to in Part I.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.   
6. 
“Compensation Procedures Manual” means the manual to be prepared and 
adopted by the Recipient setting forth principles and procedures for operating of 
the Compensation Fund and referred to in paragraph 4 of Section I of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
7. 
 “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
8. 
“Decree No. 480-N” means the Recipient’s Decree No. 480-N, dated 
 
January 19, 2006, as may be subsequently amended. 
9. 
 “EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan describing procedures for 
the safe management and disposal of animal carcasses under Part I of the Project, 
and to be adopted by the Recipient pursuant to Part B of Section IV of Schedule 
2
to this Agreement. 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
11. 
 “HPAI” means Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza.  
12. 
 “HSMP PIU” means the project implementing unit within the MoH of the 
Recipient, established and operating under the Association financed Health 
System Modernization Project (Credit Agreement No. 3920 AM, dated July 30, 
2004) pursuant to the MoH Decree No. 764, dated October 22, 1996, (as 
Page  19
-
17
-
amended by Government Decree No. 765, dated December 22, 1999), or any 
legal successor thereto. 
13. 
“IMCAI” means Inter-Ministerial Committee for Avian Influenza established and 
operating pursuant to the Decree No. 480-N, or any legal successor thereto. 
14. 
“MoA” means the Ministry of Agriculture of the Recipient or any successor or 
successors thereto. 
15. 
“MoH” means the Ministry of Health of the Recipient or any successor or 
successors thereto. 
16. 
“National Strategy for Avian Influenza” means the plan setting out the activities 
on avian influenza to be pursued by the MoA and other members of the IMCAI 
in preparation for response to outbreaks of avian influenza in both animals and 
humans, adopted by the Recipient pursuant to the Decree No. 480-N. 
17. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the MoA, the 
MoH and the Secretariat of the IMCAI on account of the Project implementation 
including the costs of communication, printing and publications, office supplies 
and maintenance, vehicle operation and maintenance, bank charges, local travel 
costs and field trip expenses, office rentals, and utilities, all based on an annual 
budget to be prepared by the ARSP PIU and the HSMP PIU which shall have 
been approved by the Association.  
18. 
“Poultry Restructuring Sub-projects” means the investment projects, selected and 
implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operational 
Manual, aimed at mitigating the negative impact on poultry producers, through 
provision of alternative income generating or marketing opportunities. 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 14, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
21. 
 “Project Component Coordinators” means the two (2) Project component 
coordinators to be appointed by an Order of the MoA, and an Order of the MoH, 
respectively.  
22. 
 “Project Operational Manual” means the manual describing: (i) procedures for 
implementation of the Project, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement 
and with the national laws and regulations of the Recipient and including, 
inter 
alia
:
(i) procedures governing administrative, procurement, accounting, financial 
management, including adequate measures for procurement and forensic audits
,
and monitoring and evaluation arrangements; (ii) sample formats for annual 
reports; and (iii) all arrangements relating to the selection and implementation of 
the Poultry Restructuring Sub-projects. 
Page  20
-
18
-
23.  
“Secretariat of the IMCAI” means the group of consultants to be hired by the 
ARSP PIU to assist the IMCAI in implementing its activities.  
24. 
 “Training” means expenditures incurred on account of Project related study 
tours, training courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities, 
including travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers. 
25. 
“Veterinary State Inspection” means the state agency established pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Decree No. 1516-N, dated September 5, 2002, for the purposes of 
implementation of the Recipient’s policy in the field of veterinary. 
 
