Report No. PID10995
Project Name            Peru-Programmatic Social Reform II...
Loan
Region                  Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Sector                  Multi-sector
Task Manager            Evangeline Javier
Project ID              PEPE73817
Borrower                The Republic of Peru
Guarantor               Not applicable
Implementing Agency     Ministry of Economy and Finance
Environmental Category  Not applicable (structural adjustment
operation)
Date PID prepared        February 21, 2002
Projected Board Date    June 20, 2002
Background:
The first phase of the Programmatic Social Reform Loan (PSRL I) was approved
by the Board on June 19, 2001 and US$100 million was fully disbursed on July
9, 2001. PSRL I initiated a medium-term reform program aiming to improve
social expenditure transparency and rationalization, increase the poor's
access to social services as well as protect them especially during crisis.
President Toledo's Government, which assumed office in late July 2001,
indicated its commitment to continue, and in some areas even extend, the
reforms started by the transition government.
The proposed US$100 million for the second phase of the Programmatic Social
Reform Loan (PSRL II) will continue to support the medium-term social reform
program of the Government of Peru (GOP) . This loan builds on the policy
decisions and actions under PSLR I and is a critical element of Bank's
assistance to the GOP medium-term development strategy. Specific objectives of
PSRL II will be to help: (i) establish a pro-poor social expenditure regime
and an adequate social protection mechanism for the poor; (ii) improve access
of the poor to critical social programs, through better targeting, improved
efficiency and rationalization of expenditures; and (iii) improve
transparency in social programs and expenditures, as well as empower
beneficiaries to participate in the policy and budget process. While a
continuation of the previous operation, PSRL II differs in a major way at
three levels: (i) it attempts to link structural adjustment actions with
medium-term results indicators (many related to the Millennium Development
Goals); (ii) it facilitates transition from short-term budget protection
during a prolonged economic slowdown to a medium-term shift in public
expenditure to benefit the poor; and (iii) it supports a consistent program of
social reforms with a series of one-tranche adjustment loans complemented
closely by other instruments - sector work, investment loans and technical
assistance.



Link to Country Assistance Strategy:
The Bank's assistance strategy continues to put high priority on the over-
arching objective of poverty reduction in Peru. The focus in 2001-2002 is to
assist the country to have a stable political and economic transition. The
Bank's assistance would help the new Government to maintain economic
stability, identify sources of growth and competitiveness, ensure access of
the poor to basic social programs, provide social protection and move forward
toward strengthening in an open, democratic system. Ensuring the
participation and empowerment of the poor in this reconstruction process is a
critical element of the assistance strategy.
The PSRL is a key instrument in the Bank's assistance strategy for Peru. It
supports a medium-term social reform program that is fully in line with the
CAS objectives and priorities. Together with assistance from other donors,
the PSRL will help close the financial gap resulting fro Peru's weakened
fiscal situation.
Cooperation with IMF and Other Donors:
In January 2002 the IMF approved a new Standby Arrangement for Peru for an
amount equivalent to US$316 million. The Stand-by Arrangements seeks to
ensure the continuation of a solid economic situation during the first two
years of the Toledo government. It highlights the need for prudent
management of fiscal and monetary policies and further progress in structural
reforms are prerequisites for continued economic stability and growth in
Peru. The PSRL II loan, together with those of other donors, domestic
financing, and privatization proceeds are projected to help ease the fiscal
constraints identified in the IMF Agreement.
Environmental Aspects:
Being a macroeconomic adjustment operation, the PSRL does not trigger OP 4.01
on Environmental Assessment, and, as a consequence, does not require an
environmental rating.
Project Benefits:
The immediate major benefit of the PSRL program continues to be its
contribution to Peru's maintenance of social stability during a difficult
period of adjustment towards economic recovery. The PSRL II loan will not
only continue to protect critical social programs for the poor but will also
help increase the quality and efficiency of social expenditures. The social
reforms supported by the PSRL operations are designed to help produce a shift
in 14 of the 20 medium-term development results indicators set by the GOP.
The ultimate success of the programmatic operation will be measured by the
extent to which public expenditures have actually reached the poor in Peru.
The innovative mechanism for public oversight and citizen input to social
policy being supported by the operation will enhance the influence and voice
of the poor over the use of scarce fiscal resources. The programmatic
approach has also helped build consensus among the finance ministry, the
office of the Chief of Cabinet (through the Inter-Ministerial Social Policy
Commission, CIAS) and the social ministries on important sequential policy
actions addressing key social issues in Peru.
- 2 -



Project Risks:
Peru's medium-term growth prospects are good. However, it faces potential
external and domestic risks including: (a) vulnerability to external shocks
and their effects on growth; (b) inability of the GOP to raise tax revenue or
make the desired shifts to social expenditures; and (c) partial reversal of
some policy decisions due to continued weak coordination and implementation
capacity of social agencies. To mitigate these risks, the Peruvian
Government is already implementing a strategy conducive to sustain
credibility, including strengthening of the financial and fiscal sectors. The
strategy also includes obtaining external donor financing, accessing
international capital markets by placing sovereign bonds, and proceeding with
the privatization plans. At the same time, the new Administration is
formulating a country vision and feasible medium-term plan through several
consensus-building initiatives which should culminate in a National
Agreement, an indispensable condition for increasing confidence of major
stakeholders and the public at large. And, with the leadership of a dynamic
Chief of Cabinet, CIAS is continuously being strengthened to exercise its
role of coordinating and influencing social policies in Peru. This role has
clearly been revitalized under the PSRL operations.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 17, 2002.
-3 -



